i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 15 december 2016.
ladies and gentlemen, it was with great sadness that we learned of the death of our former colleague, mário soares, on 7 january this year. mr soares was a member of the european parliament from 1999 to 2004. he was a member of the s&d group and has been active in this house as a member of various committees, in particular as chairman of the delegation for relations with israel. for his country, portugal, mário soares was a defining figure, a historical figure. he stood for resistance to oppression, to dictatorship, and he was without doubt a symbol for the portuguese and for the people of europe as a whole of the struggle for democracy. as foreign minister, prime minister and president of portugal, he was a key figure in the democratic development of his country and a key driver of portugal's accession to the european community. in the death of mário soares, europe has lost an outstanding statesman, a visionary and a pragmatist, a man of resistance to dictatorship and reform, a fighter against authoritarianism and a convinced democrat. it is our duty and our duty to honour and defend his political legacy. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our deepest sympathy to the family of mário soares, his friends and all those who were close to him - and there are many of them here in this house. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to rise in honour of this great statesman. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would remind you that, under rule 14 (2) of the rules of procedure, no debate may be chaired by the outgoing president unless its subject is the election of the president or the examination of the mandates referred to in the second subparagraph of rule 3 (2). what does this beautifully worded sentence mean, which, to be honest, i didn't understand even when i first read it? it means that we must elect the president tomorrow in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure. i am not saying that the president of the european parliament should be a member of the european parliament, but i am saying that the president of the european parliament should be a member of the european parliament. new proposals may be submitted before each election. i have received the following nominations for the office of president of the european parliament, in accordance with the rules of procedure, which i am reading in alphabetical order. the candidates were mrs eleonora forenza, mrs jean lambert, mr gianni pittella, mr laurenţiu rebega, mrs helga stevens, mr antonio tajani and mr guy verhofstadt. the candidates were selected by the commission and the council. the candidates have informed me that they have been proposed with their consent. the election is tomorrow, as you know. we shall meet first to conduct the first round of voting at 9 a.m. here in the chamber. the first ballot is scheduled for 9 a.m. to noon. it would be a good idea, ladies and gentlemen, if you had your badges with you in the morning, because we may need to tighten up the identification checks a bit. why am i telling you this? we rarely have all 750 members of parliament here. but we must ensure that all 750 members of parliament have proper access to the chamber without any problem. now, not every staff member knows every member of parliament personally. to avoid any conflict, please bring your badge. so, ladies and gentlemen, we've decided that there will be a presentation round here tomorrow. i said at the beginning that this election is normally held without debate. the groups have agreed that the members proposed as candidates may make a brief presentation tomorrow. we have agreed in the conference of presidents that this should be done with three minutes of speaking time, in the reverse order: we start with the smaller groups and end with the large groups. that's basically what i have to tell you. we'll have to determine counters in the morning. that means that we will draw lots among all 751 members to determine which of you, ladies and gentlemen, will be the teller tomorrow. i have a great request to the counters, and i say this with the necessary clarity: those who count, please leave your mobile phones at home. i believe that parliament has a right to have its findings published here in the house, rather than by some agencies. i say this because, as the one who is leading this meeting, i will also make sure that it is not the counters who are spreading anything, but that we are doing it. i believe that this is part of democratic practice. (applause from the centre) now i'm letting you off the campaign trail. i'll see you in the morning.
the first item on the agenda is a short presentation by the candidates for the election of the president. ladies and gentlemen, i would remind you that, in accordance with rule 14 (2) of the rules of procedure, no debate shall be held under the chairmanship of the outgoing president unless it concerns the election of the president or the examination of the mandate. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report to the house. the next item is the election of the president of the commission, in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure. in accordance with rule 15 (1) of the rules of procedure, nominations for the office of president of the european parliament must be submitted by a political group or by at least 38 members with the agreement of the candidate concerned. i have received the following nominations for the office of president of parliament under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure: the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment to men and women in matters of employment. mr verhofstadt informed me a few minutes ago that he had withdrawn his previously announced candidacy. before the voting begins, i give the floor to the candidates. candidates have three minutes each to explain briefly their candidacy. the groups have agreed that this should be done in the reverse order of the strength of the groups. we therefore begin with the proposal by mr rebega, proposed by the enf group.
that concludes the round of nominations.
we will now begin the voting process. i would ask you to pay attention to the procedural questions. i would remind you that, in accordance with rule 16 (1) of the rules of procedure, in order to be elected, a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the valid votes cast in the first three ballots. unfilled or invalidated ballots shall be deemed to be un cast. we now come to the draw of eight vote counters. (the following are hereby appointed as counters: mr antónio marinho e pinto, mr christian ehler, mrs anneliese dodds, mr ricardo serrão santos, mr györgy hölvényi, mrs lola sánchez caldentey, mr gunnar hökmark and mrs elisabeth köstinger)
if you have to leave early, we will draw a substitute for you before the elections. (the president gives instructions to the vote counters and asks them to come to him shortly before the vote and then take their seats at the ballot box.) (the sitting was suspended for a moment.)
we now come to the election of the president of the european parliament, in accordance with our rules of procedure. (the president gave technical instructions for the filling in of the ballot papers and the conduct of the elections.) the ballot box is open. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * of the
i now announce the results of the first round of the election of the president of the european parliament. the vote was 718; 35 abstentions. the number of valid votes cast: 683 the absolute majority required to be elected in the first round is 342 votes. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion. since no candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast, we shall proceed to a second round of voting. if there are no further comments, i assume that the first round of candidates will be retained. so far i have the names of the candidates forenza, lambert, pittella, rebega, stevens and tajani. does any of the above-mentioned colleagues wish to withdraw his or her candidacy? that's not the case. then it remains in the second round with all the candidates indicated. according to our rules of procedure, it is possible to submit further candidatures before each election. so if any of you feel like running for re-election, you can do so. i am setting the deadline for the submission of such applications for the second round at 12.30. nominations must be deposited with the president-in-office and may be submitted to the deputy secretary-general in the office r00.101. this is the office of the presidency. (the sitting was suspended from 11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.)
we are now in the second round of voting. i have not received any new candidates for the second round of the election of the president of the european parliament, as required by the rules of procedure. i have also been informed that all the candidates in the first round of the elections will be retained. i ask the people in the chamber to distribute the ballots and the envelopes. go ahead and distribute the ballot papers. you all know the drill. i'm going to ask the vote counters to take their seats. it's still the list of counters. i ask the men and women who are counting the votes to go to their polling stations and to give me a signal when they have reached the appropriate places. the ballot box is open. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * of the the polls are closed. i ask the vote counters to return to room r1.1 for the counting of the votes. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. until the results of the second round were known)
i now announce the results of the second round of the election of the president of the european parliament. the vote was 725 . the vote was taken at the end of the debate. the number of valid votes cast: 691 the absolute majority required to be elected in the second round is therefore 346 votes. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion. i note that no candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and that we must therefore enter a third round of elections. if there are no further comments, i assume that the candidatures of the second round will be retained for the third round. i have so far received the nominations of mrs forenza, mrs lambert, mr pittella, mr rebega, mrs stevens and mr tajani. further nominations may be announced again in this third ballot. i therefore set the deadline for the submission of candidatures for the third ballot or for any changes to the present candidatures at 5 p.m. these nominations must be submitted to the president who chairs the meeting. the filing office is the presidential office. the nomination or any change in nomination must be submitted to the deputy secretary-general. i call the third ballot for 5:30 p.m.
we are now in the third ballot. i have not received any new candidates for the third round of the election of the president of the european parliament, as required by our rules of procedure. the candidatures of the second round of elections will be maintained. i ask the people in the chamber to distribute the ballots and the envelopes. i'm going to ask the vote counters to take their seats. the ballot box is open. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * of the
ladies and gentlemen, i was informed that during the third round of voting there was an incident at a polling station: a member refused to show his identity card and threw the ballot paper next to the ballot box. the voters have met to discuss this incident and have unanimously decided to invalidate this vote. i would ask you all to have your members' identity cards with you at the last election, in case it is necessary to show them. i now come to the results of the third round of elections for the president of the european parliament. the vote was 719 the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the number of valid votes cast: 690 the absolute majority required to be elected in the third round is therefore 346 votes. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the coordination of the activities of the european investment bank and the european investment bank in the field of research and technological development. since no candidate has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast, a fourth ballot is held. in accordance with rule 16 (1) of the rules of procedure, only the two candidates who have received the highest number of votes in the third ballot shall stand in the fourth ballot. this is, in alphabetical order, mr pittella and mr tajani. i now adjourn the sitting until 8 p.m. and call the fourth ballot for 8 p.m. (the sitting was suspended from 7.10 p.m. to 8.00 p.m.)
first, a new vote counter will be drawn by lottery, as mrs anneliese dodds will have to be replaced. (the president called for a draw to be made to determine the number of votes cast.) we are now in the fourth ballot. i would remind you that, under rule 16 (1) of the rules of procedure, only the two members who have received the highest number of votes in the third ballot may be candidates in the fourth ballot. this is mr. pittella and mr. tajani. i now ask the chamber servants to distribute the ballots and envelopes. i'll ask the vote counters to take their seats. the ballot box is open. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * of the
i'm announcing the results of the fourth round of voting. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take part in the negotiations on the new agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (applause from the centre) i note that mr antonio tajani has been elected president of the european parliament. i would like to thank mr tajani for his report. i congratulate you on your choice. i wish you every success in your duties, every happiness and every success. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm gonna have to ask you to take your seat. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i would like to speak in favour of the request by ms sargentini, if that is possible. die linksfraktion hatte beantragt, die schwarze geldwäscheliste der eu-kommission abzulehnen, denn auf der liste der eu-kommission fehlen etliche länder wie etwa panama oder die bahamas. die eu-kommission hat die völlig unzureichenden empfehlungen der financial action task force einfach übernommen. sie ist aber laut antigeldwäscherichtlinie verpflichtet, eine eigene analyse vorzunehmen. der wirtschaftsausschuss und der innenausschuss haben daher diese liste abgelehnt. wir hoffen, dass die mehrheit des plenums dieser empfehlung folgt, und möchten den antrag unterstützen, den tagesordnungspunkt vorzuziehen, damit mehr abgeordnete anwesend sind.
mr president, i am sorry, but we had actually tabled another request for the wednesday plenary session: we had requested that mr juncker – who is already here – would join us today in the plenary debate on the situation of refugees. that will happen tonight, and we had tabled a request for that. i hope the groups can support us, and that mr juncker can support us, because i think it is a disaster that we have people freezing to death in the european union of today, and that is why i would like to ask for your support in inviting mr juncker to that debate.
president-in-office of the council. sur president, nibda billi nawguralek għall-elezzjoni fil-kariga l-ġdida tiegħek. the president of the council is the president of the council. mr president, i know that after such a hard-fought election campaign you will do your best to continue the excellent work done by your predecessor martin schulz, who has greatly raised the profile and visibility of this institution. i am sure that, as you have done in your other roles and as you have said, you will do your best during this delicate period for our europe. i assure you that the maltese presidency of this european semester will be a loyal partner and a hard worker in bringing home the results set for it. congratulations again to you and the candidates. mr president, this is an emotional moment for me: the last time i spoke in plenary was ten years ago as a member of the house. at the time, together with louis grech, the deputy prime minister, and others, there was a very small group of meps from the new member states. this is a great achievement for the institution and for europe as a whole. our concerns are about how we can grow the economy further; how we can achieve agenda 2020; how we can protect our consumers further; how we can move europe further forward. the economic crisis, the financial crisis and the financial crisis have created many jobs. nobody wants to be a bank robber if they have to save money by paying taxes. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states are able to meet the requirements of the treaty. i'm not going to be able to do it. the eu has been very active in the fight against illegal immigration, and has been involved in the fight against illegal immigration. the first thing that i want to do is to ask you to come back to me. the commission has already prepared the programme for the presidency. i'm not going to be able to do it. dutch and slovakian, they're fucked up. the following six months shall be chosen for each sector: the eu has a long-standing commitment to the development of the maritime sector. the european union is the only institution in the world that has the power to impose sanctions on a country for its actions. the european parliament, the council and the commission are the only institutions in the world that have the power to decide on the future of the union. of course, we cannot answer your questions in all areas. i believe we should start with migration. we know for a fact that there is a need for a holistic policy, which has gone amiss for many years and has only recently been recognised as a priority. i must say that the commission has shown exceptional leadership in this as has parliament and i have to admit that any hesitation is coming from the institution i represent here today. i will not waste your time by repeating the clichés that have been going around for so long: on the need to use all our policies, including development aid and a long-term approach. we all know that, and we all agree with that, also thanks to decisions taken during the valletta summit a little over a year ago, which have given new impetus to the external dimension and led to the negotiation of a number of compacts, which are the basis for such a longterm approach. but the issue is much more pressing, and time is not on our side. you know malta's position on this issue very well. we have been stressing for more than a decade that the migration situation in the mediterranean is unsustainable. we were among the first to sow the seeds - even within this parliament - on the need for responsibility sharing, and also the sharing of the burden of managing the flows that cannot fall exclusively on the shoulders of frontline member states. yet for many years we were left almost alone, trying to overcome a crisis which was not of our making. the only solution we were given and even that only at times was some more money. but that's not a solution. i confess that, when last year we came to take sides in the council on the distribution mechanism proposed by the commission, there were quite a few voices back home urging me to stand against the relocation of migrants. they said that nobody helped us when we needed it. we took our fair share over the years, so now let's mind our own business. i assure you that such a stand would have been very popular and would have had a popular backing within the silent majority. instead, we opted to do just the opposite, because we know that this is an issue of principles and credibility. solidarity is not an à la carte option that we use when we need it and turn a blind eye to when others need it. solidarity is an essential european value at the very core of what the founding mothers and fathers envisaged 60 years ago in rome. so the smallest member state, which over the years bar the last few has suffered firsthand the brunt of the human plight of migration with little or no help, signed up to take asylum seekers from other member states which are facing a crisis. to me, that is more than enough to assert that our european and human values are indisputable. i was sorry to see a minority of member states resist this system. during these next six months we can choose to dig our heels in further and antagonize each other even more, or, on the other hand, we can try to understand any genuine concerns and misgivings that these member states and indeed our people in our own member states have about the whole way in which europe is handling the migration issue. we have opted for a two-pronged approach which focuses on the effective management of our borders while concurrently working to achieve progress on the fairer allocation of responsibility and to be very clear the fair allocation of the burden, since we are now used to calling it that. the proper management of our land and more problematically sea borders is part and parcel of our approach towards a revision of the dublin regulation, which needs to be an ambitious and workable solution. the last major crisis we had caught europe unprepared, also because the situation was rendered even more critical by our own inadequate and dated european systems and procedures. in fact, these flaws were exposed in their entirety. all this led to tensions on different approaches to wall, or not to wall? in the end, the only way in which the flow was stemmed was through an agreement with turkey. we all know it is not a perfect deal, and that it is not a long-term solution, but we have to admit that this is what has made some difference up to now. europe cannot be caught in this conundrum once again. as next spring, europe will face a new heavy influx of migrants this time through the central mediterranean. needless to say, their composition, their origin and the reasons why these people want to undergo the riskiest voyage of their lives across a deadly sea is different from that of the mainly syrian refugees crossing the aegean sea. we also all know that the countries across the southern littoral of the central mediterranean are different in so many ways from turkey. nevertheless, in my mind there is no doubt that, unless the essence of the turkey deal is replicated in the central mediterranean, europe will face a major migration crisis. let me not mince my words: i see no way in which one single member state can manage or absorb this further wave. thus, the essence of the core principles of the european union will be seriously tested unless we act now. let me also be very clear about what i mean by the replication of the essence of the turkey deal. i mean, most importantly, breaking the business model of the criminal gangs making millions of euros out of this inhumane business. i believe that a strong political message is necessary at this point, and if we manage to get such an agreement, we should then, as the european union, organize humanitarian safe passages and corridors that would get recognized asylum seekers to europe safely. (applause from the left) one final point on migration: i have no doubt that, unless we are ready to make such bold moves, we will be made to make even bolder ones in the months to come, and these citizens will be led by people who do not have the progress of the european project at heart. this is a matter which we intend to tackle directly during the meeting of the heads of state and government in malta next month. i said that i would not go into each and every priority of the presidency, but i cannot give this address without specifically mentioning the priority of security. the european union is meant to deliver an area of freedom, security and justice for its citizens. our citizens need to feel safe and protected wherever they are within europe. in recent times, we have seen a direct threat to that security. we have learned, at our own expense, that the security of one member state is the security of another. if we're not together, we're extremely vulnerable. strengthening our resilience to protect our way of life is a common responsibility, and therefore taking cooperation in this area to a different level is not an option. member states and institutions need to work relentlessly to deliver a safe europe for citizens. a lot has been done in recent months, but a lot more needs to be done and our efforts need to increase, because time really is of the essence. the maltese presidency will work handinhand with you, parliament, to address this common challenge with determination. allow me now to take some time to discuss brexit. it is quite an historical irony for a country which has been a british colony for two centuries, and which currently also presides over the commonwealth, to hold the presidency of the council of the european union at the time of the triggering of the process by means of which the united kingdom will, unfortunately, cease to be a member of the european union which it supported us to join. given our historical ties and the great and mostly positive influence that the british systems had on our own, from the basis of our educational and administrative systems to english, which is one of our two official languages; from the george cross for the bravery shown by our forefathers during the second world war, which we proudly display on our flag, to the side of the road on which we drive, this is not a happy event for us. we want a fair deal for the united kingdom, but that deal necessarily needs to be inferior to membership. this should not come as a surprise to anyone. indeed, thinking it can be otherwise would indicate a detachment from reality. yesterday's statement by my colleague and friend, prime minister may, helps clarify the priorities of the british government during the impending negotiations. our understanding is that prime minister may is prioritizing curbs to freedom of movement of people over membership of the single market and the customs union. she added that she does not want the united kingdom to replicate something that exists, but rather the creation of something new. i would like to confirm to this house today that, at this point, there is unequivocal unity within council. this stand does not arise from antagonism, but from belief in the core principles of the european project. as stated by the 27 heads of state and government after the brexit referendum result, which we respect as a sovereign decision, the freedom of movement of persons, goods, services and capital cannot be decoupled. to put it simply, the four freedoms are indivisible. (applause from the left) indeed, the fact that the british prime minister declared that she would take her country out of the single market because of the political choice to limit the free movement of persons confirms the position of the eu 27 that the four freedoms are one package. that, in itself, is a somewhat positive development. this is not to say that we should allow these principles to be abused or undermined. the freedom of movement of persons is aimed at allowing people to move freely across the member states, to work and establish themselves and their families freely. it was never meant to encourage people to shop around member states to see who offers the best social benefits. this is why we look forward to commission proposals in this area. once there is a notification, a clear and clean cut from current arrangements, and afterwards a negotiated and unrelated new free-trade agreement ushered in by possible transitional agreements where european rules and institutions cannot be compromised, will be an arduous task, as our recent experiences in trade agreements suggest. this task should never be underestimated. nor should our colleagues on the other side of the table be underestimated. i would like to report to you how the council intends to go about the mechanics of brexit. first of all, we will keep to the maxim that there will be absolutely no negotiations without the official notification. once the notification is made, depending on the contents of such a notification, consultations will start among member states with the intention of convening an extraordinary european council meeting within a short period of time possibly four to five weeks from notification with the aim of establishing the guidelines that will serve as a mandate to the commission to negotiate. i also want to take this opportunity to say that i am very impressed with the thorough preparations that michel barnier and his team are making. the general affairs council will be tasked with the preparation of the council's work. this leads me to the role of parliament in all this. as already publicly stated, i advocate that parliament should be involved as much as possible in this process. (applause) having been part of this institution myself, i am aware of the organic dynamics within it. i am of the opinion that not involving parliament is not the best choice. it comes with its own risks, and would also lead to the risk of even the fairest of deals being scuttled. having said this, i do appeal to all institutions to adopt a consistent approach that is aimed at safeguarding the european project and not at punishing any particular country. before closing, i would like to point out one more element which is present in the narrative and the programme of the maltese presidency: the social factor. i believe that the social aspect of this 60-year-old project is the essence of our european union. (applause) it is an ethos that no other group of nations can say is theirs. it is a characteristic that no trade deal can ever aspire to replicate. indeed, social europe is the x factor of the european union: you either have it or you don't. this is why we want these six months to lead the drive towards a strengthening of this ideal, which can go a long way towards contributing to the real question that families across our continent are asking, and the experiences that they go through each and every day of their lives. social europe should not be treated as a concept belonging to the 90s, but rather as a unique european essence, the real scope behind projects such as the single market and the euro. the fact that we have not pursued this goal actively over the past few years may provide an explanation for the current mood in many of our member states. so we are proud to put social europe back on the agenda, in sync with the commission's recent work. (applause from the left) i strongly believe that matching this dimension with policies conducive to economic growth and more and better jobs can help provide a guiding light not only to our people, but also to the global community that is desperately looking for progressive leadership. the president, there are several other subjects on which he wishes to speak in response to the interventions of his colleagues: the environment, taxation, interinstitutional dynamics, the environment and climate, the maritime sector, the road map to bratislava, the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, and social aspects. l-europe means different things għal kulħadd. i'm not going to be able to do it. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and its role in the world economy is of vital importance to the world economy. the most important period is the period of progress. therefore, our theme is reunion, because it is the sixtieth year of europe - its sixtieth year - europe must not think of withdrawing but of moving forward.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by warmly congratulating you, mr president, on your election as president of this house. i have known you for centuries, i know you as a convinced european and i am sure and certain that you will practise your new profession with the elegance and know-how that have always characterized you. (applause) i would like to pay tribute to martin schulz, not for the first time and not for the last time. he was a great president of this parliament and europe owes him a great deal. martin schulz is a great european. as the smallest of the founding countries of the union, i am also delighted that malta, the smallest of our member states, is taking over the presidency of the union for the first time. when i am in malta, i always tell joseph, louise and my maltese friends that the day malta became a member of the european union was a happy day for me, because on that day luxembourg ceased to be the smallest member state of the union. i was therefore in favour of malta's accession. i am delighted that malta is here and is taking over the presidency of the council of ministers because i know that european commitment is not proportional to the size of the countries and that the smaller countries often hold the largest presidencies. they do not want to defend their immediate interests and, as a rule, they have great ambitions for europe. and we need ambition more than ever to revitalise our economies, to tackle the wave of migration, to confront the terrorist threat, to find the right way to react to the uk's decision to opt for brexit and to prepare our relations with donald trump's america. i welcome the clarifications made yesterday by the british prime minister. last night i told him that a speech alone does not trigger negotiations. once the uk has activated article 50, a new negotiation will begin, which the treaty says should take two years to complete and will have far-reaching consequences for the uk, its 27 partners and the eu as a whole. i will do everything i can to ensure that this negotiation leads to a balanced solution in full respect of our rules. most of you, most of the political leaders, most of our citizens and, perhaps more than anyone else, the commission, which i have the honour of chairing, would have liked europe to respond more quickly and in a more united way to the events that sadly marked the year 2016. often our hesitations, sometimes our divisions, have played into the hands of extremists and europe-haters who have been quick to blame the european union for all the ills. i want to say here and now that they are wrong and, more importantly, they are deceiving those whom they are leading to believe that withdrawing into oneself, closing borders, rejecting asylum seekers are the solutions. it's the exact opposite. we must make it clear and above all prove to those who think that the time has come to deconstruct the union, to tear it apart, to divide us, that they are completely wrong. without the union, no member state would be able to take in asylum seekers, fight terrorism, organise our economy, fight unemployment and influence world affairs. (applause) i would like to thank the maltese presidency can count on the commission's support so that, together, we can ensure that the celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, prepared by the - no less important - malta summit in february, do not only celebrate our past progress but also and above all mark a new beginning, a surge of energy, foresight and vision to undertake a re-foundation of europe which will prove that, as has always been the case in its history, it emerges strengthened from the trials and challenges. to achieve this, we can trust malta, as a bridge between the east, africa and the west, to use this experience as a builder to convince our different, sometimes antagonistic public opinions to overcome national egoisms and to regain the momentum and solidarity that will allow us to be even more effective in our efforts to stabilise our economies in europe. more than once in recent years i have regretted that solidarity was not always a spontaneous response and i deplore that, for the first time in european history, some countries have not applied the decisions taken in such a sensitive area as asylum, even though significant progress has been made elsewhere. we still have a lot of work to do, in particular to put in place a permanent european mechanism to manage migration in a credible and long-term way. to achieve this, the commission proposed to reform the dublin rules by establishing a clear, predictable and fair system to help countries on the front line in the event of a massive influx of refugees, and also by transforming the european asylum support office, based in valletta, into a genuine european union asylum agency. mr president, i make a solemn appeal to everyone here, and in particular to parliament and the council, to ensure that we succeed in completing the reform of the dublin mechanism under the maltese presidency, because time is running out. i would also like the new european asylum agency to become operational as quickly as the one that enabled us to create the european border and coast guard corps, because it is a question of the credibility and honour of europe, which must protect its borders while pursuing a humane and supportive migration policy. it will thus be an undeniable refutation of those who try to promote their ideas by engaging in a dangerous amalgamation of refugees and terrorists. mr president, my very sincere congratulations to you, ladies and gentlemen! the citizens are naturally concerned about their security. they are based on the fight against terror, especially after the terrible and cowardly attacks in germany, france and belgium. therefore we must know exactly who has crossed our borders. we must be able to better monitor when and how potential terrorists move. we must therefore also systematically control the movements of all travellers and cross our borders without visas. i hope that our proposal will be implemented by the end of the maltese presidency. the other priority of the people is jobs and economic growth. we must also quickly deliver concrete results in this area and regain their confidence. we are creating, by reducing obstacles and thus creating new jobs and unlocking our full economic potential. the maltese presidency supports our plan to complete the internal market by building up the digital and energy internal markets in particular. we also open up access to the capital markets union for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can develop additional sources of finance and not depend solely on the banking sector. we want to make the investment offensive we have launched as beneficial to as many small and mediumsized enterprises as possible. they are the jobs of tomorrow. therefore i appeal to you, before the end of the maltese semester, to withdraw the extension of the investment plans. i am happy to hear that the maltese presidency is listening to economic and social policy priorities. this is a concern, but it is equally important. fairness and social justice lie at the heart of all our political action. for me, the social dimension is essential to the balance and credibility of our european projects. (beifall) we must therefore give social policy the place it deserves, particularly by establishing a common european basis for social rights. it is nothing less than a matter of preserving and defending the european model of a social market economy, which by its rules protects all and especially the least advantaged; a social market economy also, which prevents injustice from growing and dying, and which ensures that the weakest do not remain behind. mr president, when malta joined us in 2004, it opened the union to the open sea by strengthening its maritime vocation. thirteen years later, malta assumed the presidency of the council for the first time, at a crucial moment for europe, which must choose between recovery and disintegration, taking its destiny back into its own hands and reconnecting with the spirit of the founding fathers. that's how much we need a good captain who knows how to keep a course. i know that malta will be able to show the way, but i call on everyone, and in particular on parliament, without which nothing is possible, to ensure that 2017 gives europe a new lease of life and a vision of the future through projects without which it will not survive and without which its citizens, and especially its young people, will turn their backs on us. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president of the european parliament, mr antonio, mr president of the commission, and above all mr president of the council, mr prime minister! i welcome you warmly, and as a former colleague, i welcome you all the more in your old office in the european parliament! we have a basic debate here: namely, there are those right-wing politicians in the european parliament who claim that if we make europe, the nations will lose influence, the nations will become redundant, the nations will be dissolved. i believe that the start of the maltese presidency today is a symbol of the opposite: that a country like malta, a small country like malta, with its membership of europe, has size, has strength, has the ability to assert itself, can bring its interests to the european level. we therefore welcome your presidency - an important political sign. the priorities are right: first, migration. spring is coming we all want together that the deaths we have to experience in the mediterranean every year do not happen again, that they are contained as much as possible! we need to take concrete steps to do that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, in valletta, a fund for africa was agreed for eur 1.8 billion, and the member states - you - have now paid eur 80 million. four percent of the money promised has been paid in. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. take care of it! and we must end the deadlock on the question of solidarity in europe, finally find the right balance between helping and fighting illegal migration. we want to work on the fight against terrorism. you mentioned it. we need more enforcement, more implementation. the shortcomings are obvious: after every terrorist attack - in paris, brussels and berlin - the interior ministers meet and complain that the exchange of data is not working, that we are not making progress with the exchange of data. that is why we are in favour of having a special committee in parliament to look into this issue, to check the background. we must finally stop saying that citizens are not sufficiently protected because the exchange of data is not working. this is precisely the issue on which citizens are calling for more europe - more europe, more security. a third theme is the buzzword of fairness and justice on this continent: the fact that some companies do not pay taxes and that the craftsmen have to pay the mine - that is not possible. and if we add panama to the list, the question of tax havens, which we have already discussed briefly today, i would ask you to look into this matter. our societies are demanding justice. and finally, i would like to say that in the coming weeks we will also be voting on an important issue: more jobs. if we want to create jobs on this continent, if we want to give a future to the young generation, especially in the south of the continent, then we must be open to a modern trade policy. we will be voting on ceta. and i am very grateful that a socialist government, a leftist government in malta, is clearly committed to ceta, is clearly committed to ceta, that we are making progress on this issue. i would like to mention one more issue, which is purely technical but important to us as parliamentarians: i ask you to prepare for the 2019 elections. we are working on a european electoral law, and we finally need movement in the european council, in the council of ministers, so that we can move forward on electoral law and have a stable legislative basis to hold the elections in 2019. we wish you success! the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full role in the world.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. europe needs new reforms. i believe that it is your main task during your term of office as president of the council to push forward these reforms. there are many forces in this house that agree. even people who think as differently as mr verhofstadt and i do agree that these reforms are necessary. i think it is very good that mr verhofstadt has paid tribute to this in that he has now proposed to his own group that we should accept those who are against the euro. the euro is still a big problem, and a big problem is the indebtedness of states. that is why i think that one of the tasks you should undertake is something you have not mentioned, namely to finally create an order for state insolvencies in the eurozone. we know from numerous witnesses, including the international monetary fund, that there is no way around government insolvencies in the eurozone. we see it in the european union's inability to actually enforce the fiscal discipline that our treaties actually require. we need orderly state insolvencies, and we need a set of rules for that. this is a major task for the maltese presidency.
mr president, while this parliament has made the fight against tax evasion and money laundering a priority, malta unfortunately exploits a loophole in eu corporation tax policy: it treats local income differently to international income. local businesses have to pay 35% on their profits; international corporations profit from a corporation tax rate of as little as 5%. that is not social; that is not european. prime minister, i call on you to change that in the interests of the coherence of the common market. secondly, members of the maltese government appear in the panama papers. will you cooperate fully with our inquiry committee and publish the investigative report by manfred galdes on the inclusion of some members of your government – or close to your government – in the panama papers information?
mr president, commissioner, and mr prime minister! we are discussing the programme for the new maltese presidency of the council today. i notice that something has changed. the maltese presidency intends to give high priority to the issue of 'illegal migration'. the previous slovak presidency of the council still spoke of 'sustainable migration' and before that the dutch spoke of 'current migration' which they wanted to tackle with a comprehensive approach. and before that, again, the luxembourgers blue-eyed as they were spoke of an effective immigration policy that they wanted to manage better. so within two years, what was once effective immigration, which you wanted to manage better, has become illegal immigration. i think we're getting closer to the point here. it is illegal migration that is causing the problems, and illegal migration is not something that needs to be better managed, it needs to be prevented and stopped. i would like to believe that the maltese presidency is doing this. i'll believe it when i see it.
mr president, i remember very well the years when we worked together in this house, years when there was a real optimism about the european idea and a big engagement for the european project. like others here, i hope very much that your presidency can bring back a new dynamic, that it can give hope to the citizens about europe, show them the benefits, communicate the benefits and bring and deliver security at a time of many insecurities. but i am here for a legislative file that is not in the spotlight but that is nevertheless very important for the future of the european parliament, especially the european elections of 2019, and you, the maltese presidency, are the last chance for ensuring that this dossier gets decided. if you miss that opportunity, we will not have the chance to reform the european elections. you know that we work with the electoral act from 1976, which is completely outdated, and i hope that your team – and especially you and your colleagues – can bring that to a positive result. parliament has created a draft with a large majority, so take that to heart. it would benefit parliament in future elections.
in writing. mr prime minister! your country is taking over the presidency of the council in difficult times. i hope that you will put your announcement into practice and act as an honest broker in trying to curb national egos so that solidarity between member states can once again be seen in a big way. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be able to do so. we shall be discussing the financial transaction tax here in the house this evening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ten years after the financial crisis, we have still not managed to adequately share the costs of managing the crisis with the financial industry, which was the main culprit in the outbreak of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. as if that were not enough, social programs and public investment were cut. malta is a small country, but a great friend of europe. do europe a favour and make sure that in the future social matters have the same value as economic and financial matters in europe!
president of the european council. – mr president, first of all i want to congratulate you warmly on your election as president of the european parliament, and to wish you, dear antonio, and all the members of the house, well for 2017. no one can have any doubts that it will be an extraordinary year for europe and the european union. last year, we managed to make progress on migration, security and the economy, in spite of the unprecedented difficulties we faced. this was thanks, in great part, to your hard work and sense of responsibility in responding to events. similarly, i trust that we will rise together to meet the challenges of the next months. i would now like to briefly outline the main results of the december european council. leaders discussed our efforts to regain control over migration. the radical drop in irregular migration on the eastern mediterranean route was possible thanks to our decision to get back to schengen, the closure of the western balkan route and turkey’s cooperation. in this context, leaders stressed their commitment to implementing the eu-turkey statement, which also requires efforts from the turkish side. as regards the central mediterranean route, high representative mogherini reported on the progress with african countries. last year, 180 000 migrants arrived irregularly in italy. this is a situation that cannot continue. that is why libya and our approach to the central mediterranean route will be the key point of the next informal summit in malta. as you know, the eu supports the government of national accord and its efforts to consolidate peace and stability in libya. we stand ready to step up the eu’s engagement to strengthen the capacity to address security issues and consolidate institutions, in full respect of libyan sovereignty. as for ukraine, we adopted a legally-binding decision of the leaders to facilitate the ratification of the association agreement in the netherlands. this decision addresses the concerns expressed by the dutch voters last year. now, the responsibility lies in the netherlands. the ratification is important not only for ukraine, but also for europe’s geo-political standing and credibility. we did what we could to help save the association agreement already ratified by 27 member states and the european parliament. now the ball is in the court of the dutch. on the minsk agreements, chancellor merkel and president hollande gave their assessment of the normandy process for resolving the conflict in eastern ukraine. their clear recommendation was that since russia has still not implemented the minsk agreement, sanctions should be prolonged. they are now in place for a further six months. the world has become a more dangerous place, whether we talk about open conflict, terrorism or so-called hybrid war in the form of cyberattacks and public disinformation. therefore, the leaders agreed to step up work on defence, in partnership with nato. they have also agreed to increase cooperation on external security across the board – from research to how we develop military capabilities, right down to how we conduct our missions and operations. more resources will be needed, most importantly at the national level on defence spending, but also through funds from the european union. your support for this work will be critical, given the institutional and financial questions involved. the objective is clear: european countries should do more in the face of the immediate security threats facing our citizens, and so should the european union. the leaders also discussed internal security. the political agreement on the eu’s counter-terrorism directive, which criminalises foreign fighters and their activities throughout the european union, is the right step forward, but we need more. leaders called for the remaining decisions which can prevent future terror attacks to be swiftly finalised and implemented, such as, for example, tougher legislation on firearms. we have called on the co-legislators to agree by june on an entry-exit system, and by the end of 2017, on a european travel information and authorisation system. this will ensure that visa-exempt travellers are screened systematically. these are tough deadlines, but the situation requires that we work more quickly than normally. the leaders also discussed several initiatives aimed at making the european economy work for everyone. we had an exchange with president draghi, who underlined that the improved economic situation still needs reform efforts. the statistics are better, but the important thing is for ordinary people and businesses to feel confident about the future. this is why the european fund for strategic investment will be extended, our trade defence instruments will be modernised, and the youth guarantee will be continued. to strengthen our recovery, 2017 needs to be a year of great ambition for the single market, both in terms of deepening and modernisation. parliament’s role is obviously vital here. finally, on brexit, the eu 27 had a short informal meeting where we agreed procedural arrangements and reconfirmed our principles, namely the indivisibility of the four freedoms, the balance of rights and obligations and our rule of ‘no negotiations without notification’. the european council will maintain political control over the process, while ensuring that the commission is the union’s chief negotiator. the leaders fully realise the important role of the european parliament in the process. with this in mind, they invited the chief negotiator to keep parliament closely and regularly informed, and agreed how the european council would interact with parliament throughout the coming months. with this work now done, the eu stands ready to start the negotiations when the uk notifies its departure. lastly, let me make one comment. yesterday’s speech by prime minister may proves that the unified position of 27 member states on the indivisibility of the single market was finally understood and accepted by london. it would be good if our partners also understood that there will be no place for pick-and-choose tactics in our future negotiations. at the same time, i want to underline that we took note of the warm and balanced words of prime minister may on european integration, which were much closer to the narrative of winston churchill than that of the american president-elect trump.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, this agenda allows us to look at the future at least 12 months ahead and assess what the political priorities are and how our political environment will evolve during this year. i think we need at least three things. first, unity. second, we have to defend our institutions and their role, and third, we have to concentrate on deliverables and delivering those of our initiatives which have already been decided. when looking at unity, the last european council meeting was very good in that sense. it showed and expressed a strong unity and strong willingness to cooperate with other institutions. when looking at the role of the institutions, it is more important than ever before. we have been challenged from outside, but also from within. many of those who have challenged the idea of an integrated europe want, at the same time, to destroy our institutions and integration as a whole. so, in the so-called post—truth era, the institutions play a role because they represent the same basis for dealing with those issues. the institutions want to make sure that we have the same facts, those which we share and those from which we can draw different conclusions in an organised manner. that is also why the art of making compromises is getting very, very important. you cannot make compromises if your institutions are not strong and if they are not defended. so that is why all the european institutions deserve to be defended and strengthened, and there of course this house plays a crucial role. a couple of words on delivery. delivery was one of the main issues in the european council. it was reinforced in december with a joint declaration of the eu’s legislative priorities for 2017, signed for the first time by all three institutions, and that sort of unity was also shown during the informal meeting of 27 heads of state or government after december’s european council. when it comes to the discussion with the uk following an article 50 notification, all of europe’s institutions and all 27 member states will be singing from the same hymn sheet. the commission was absolutely clear that this house should play a full role in those proceedings, and our chief negotiator, mr barnier, will work closely with parliament’s representatives to make sure that this will also happen. from the substance point of view, the defence issue is one of the main points on the agenda in the european council. just to mention a few main areas in defence. first, we have to make sure that our public procurement system is becoming stronger. it is quite amazing that only 20% of purchases in the defence field have been tendered internationally. eighty per cent of purchases happen domestically, and that is one of the reasons why our defence industry has not developed as well as other areas of industry. it is also one of the reasons why defence equipment is getting more and more expensive – faster than the others. that is why we need a better internal market in defence. second, we need your support when looking at next year’s budget when our intention is to increase research money in the defence sector. the capability window also needs large cooperation. the commission is working very hard on this, and we are trying to find suitable well—functioning ways for member states to make joint purchases and, by doing so, save money and strengthen our defence in the long run. on migration, we also saw renewed willingness to cooperate on migration and security, areas in which we have seen significant results in the last 12 months. we have already seen the first results, notably in our partnership with niger, which has already taken action to combat migrant smuggling and has received eu support to implement its macro-economic reform programme. but we need to see more of this, and this is why we now need the co-legislators to swiftly agree on the commission’s proposal to stimulate investment in tackling irregular migration at the grassroots level. the new european fund for sustainable development will have the potential to mobilise up to eur 44 billion to create jobs, improve social conditions and promote sustainable development where it is most needed. finally, some words on the social dimension and economic growth. we were very happy with the strong support from the council towards our social agenda. we have to pay attention to our societies and people’s resilience, especially at a time when industrial revolution will recede our market. we have to make sure that europeans and our societies are more resilient, and education plays a role there. but other ways to invest in youth are also very important. that is why we were very pleased that the council backed our youth employment initiative by accepting a eur 2 billion increase in funding for this purpose. the european solidarity corps also got strong backing from the council. finally, we also got very strong support from the council for the efsi 2.0 project. we encourage the european parliament to take its position as soon as possible so that we can conclude this proposal by the end of the maltese presidency, and we also need your support in internal market projects which got very strong backing from the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. a warm welcome and a hopefully good new year for 2017, that it will be better than 2016. i would like to concentrate on two issues today, and in retrospect also on the council. the first is, of course, brexit. we are all grateful for yesterday's speech, for having received clarifications again, for having made some further progress. but such real clarity has still not been produced by the speech. i hear this statement about punishment, for example. i think we can all agree today that there will be no punishment of britain. no one wants to punish britain for the decision that has been taken. they want to leave the european union. the european union today is first and foremost a single market, a large single market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the idea i heard yesterday. so i ask myself, what do you want to leave? do you want to leave the eu now or do you not want to leave the eu? if the european union were not called that, then perhaps some people in london would apply to join. but just because it's called the eu, unfortunately, many people think it's the devil's. ladies and gentlemen, 'out means out', 'brexit means brexit', i hear it all the time. and that is why we will be discussing this very intensively in concrete terms over the coming weeks and months. for example, my group will not tolerate the financial market of the euro, our common currency, being managed or shaped further from london if london is no longer part of the european union in the future. the second point i would like to make is that, on the one hand, we cannot talk about punishing anyone. but on the other hand, britain is clearly allowed to threaten us. it is now the case, as hammond and theresa may have said, that a new economic model for britain is being sought, a tax dumping model is being applied to make it more attractive for companies to invest in britain. i wonder if the united kingdom also wants to leave the g8, because there were agreements against tax dumping. i also wonder who will pay for the tax losses caused by the uk's dumping of goods. the small people will pay the price, and the big corporations will be exempt from taxes. this is what will happen when you apply this new tax model. i would advertise that we do not punish and london does not threaten. we would then be creating a very good atmosphere in the talks. i am not going to go into detail. the second issue i want to raise is the developments in the united states of america which will affect us in europe. we respect the election results, we're open to the new administration, as every democrat is, and there's no prejudice. however, the first statements from the newly elected president are now being made. the european union is the same size as the united states of america in terms of its economic area. and that is why we must make it clear to all those who are now threatening europeans, including european companies, that we too have power with the single market, with state aid law. for example, i am already wondering how many jobs google actually has in europe. or i wonder how much tax apple actually pays in europe. we can ask questions too, if americans are asking questions. we will use our power to do so. i would also like to see the developments in the united states as an opportunity for us, because the canadians, the mexicans, the japanese are all looking at the developments in the united states with a certain degree of concern. the european council should now start a diplomatic initiative to involve all the partners around america as partners for europe, because that would be a good community. i would like to conclude with what guy verhofstadt said this morning: what are we europeans really doing now that trump is really questioning nato? what are we europeans doing now that trump is withdrawing troops from poland? what are we europeans really doing when a deal is made with russia at the expense of ukraine and ukraine's right to self-determination is suddenly called into question? what are we gonna do? mr president-in-office, are we going to be alarmed, are we going to sit down, are we going to hold special meetings again, as we often do, or do we have the strength to prepare for this now? is europe finally growing up? is europe finally taking the necessary steps to deepen and strengthen this european union so that it can finally be self-confident? the nationalists are the gravediggers of the nation states. only a united europe can ensure that the nation states retain their power and influence in a globalised world. and when in america they say "america first", we can say "europe first".
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i will find it a bit difficult to fill my three minutes, because at the council i did not actually have the impression that so many meaningful conclusions or decisions were taken. i would rather say the conclusions were meagre at best. that might actually be ok if it were a smooth time, with nothing much happening just before christmas and if there were nothing much to do, but i think we all share a common feeling that is not really the world that we are living in. we have brexit, we have trump, we have refugees freezing to death in europe, we have the rights of the far right, we have conflicts in our neighbourhoods – there are so many issues that we need to address, so many solutions that we need to find, and not just hang out and talk nicely. so, where is the plan for a social europe? where are the bold moves to establish tax justice in europe? where is the action on investment rather than austerity? where is the joint effort to help refugees, to establish some sort of dignity at least for people looking for protection, and also for europe? where is the common answer for trump? where is the common voice in foreign policy, and where are the member states when it comes to implementing things? as for the defence union and new papers, all that is very nice, but where would be the implementation of the pooling and sharing that member states had already decided a long time ago? on all of the burning issues we get ‘nada’and ‘niente’ (and you see i am practising my italian). we got nothing from the council. we got some nice warm words – or some cold words, when it came to migration – but that’s it. we don’t need to have european council meetings just to keep us busy, as i think we are all rather busy! we need a european council that works on the future of europe with bold decisions and real tangible results, because a lot is at stake. the whole project, the whole dream, the whole idea of europe is at stake and is under threat. we do not have much time, and we will not get many opportunities to do something about that – to rescue this idea, and not just to rescue it, but also to further develop it. i don’t expect the council to save us all, but i do expect the council to make a meaningful contribution, and i do expect the presidency and the president of the council to put serious proposals on the table to work for the best of europe, and not just for a nice group picture. we, as parliament, cannot wait for the council to do something and get serious. after we have been so busy with ourselves for the last two days, which was nice, fun and all exciting, i think it is high time that we get back to business, back to policies, back to improving the lives of everyone living in europe, and it is really urgent that we do that because we only have one europe and it needs us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think the results of the european council are promising but not satisfactory. and i think it's an important fact that you said, we want innovation and competitiveness, education and social balance, that you want to make progress on migration and terrorism, and that you want to make registration compulsory, that you have written things in defense policy. but now it is time to deliver, to implement in all respects. mr president of the european council, you must make it clear to your colleagues in the national governments that this is being made clear, that it is being implemented and not just written in conclusions. and the commission must take the appropriate legislative proposals and initiatives in these areas, and we must make the bratislava process a success story also towards rome. if these core issues of challenge are not delivered, then we have a problem - which is a mild expression of the actual situation. i think we must see this particularly in the field of defence policy, given the threats and concerns we have, not only from the south and the east but also from the west: if we are not able to create synergies, to cooperate on defence policy, with headquarters, with the question of permanent structured cooperation, with procurement and research. we spend 200 billion euros on defence, with minimal results because we are not able to do anything together. and if we want to live safely, to remain independent, this must be so european in this changed world. please turn it on now!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make two brief points. the first is that i very much welcome the fact that there is an agreement between the council and us on the suspension mechanism and that it may finally be time for ukraine and georgia to also get visa-free travel. it is high time, because we have had to move very close to the border of credibility, particularly with regard to georgia. i also welcome the clarification which enables the dutch government to continue the ratification process. we should take this as an opportunity to appeal to ourselves, to speak a little more clearly, to say what is and what is not, what is meant, what is possible and what is not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the refugee crisis. but i ask you to appeal to the greek government as well. she's got a lot of us, and she's doing damn little. i expect different from a left-wing government.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, distinguished representative of the council! the european parliament, my socialist group, has called for this debate because we - i should almost say, once again - have the impression that the introduction of the financial transaction tax is to be delayed and that work on it is lagging behind. we find this incomprehensible. no, we think it's disgraceful! mr rosati is arguing the case. but mrs rosati also knows that the concerns have been largely dispelled, thanks in part to the initiative of mr pierre moscovici - your colleague, madam commissioner - who has invested a great deal and worked very hard to ensure that these proposals now on the table are feasible. our group, this house - it is now almost six years ago - called on 8 march 2011 with almost 80% majority for the introduction of this financial transaction tax. the commission was not initially in favour; a quarter later, she made a proposal. i want to make it clear to you that we have experience of conflict and we cannot understand why we are not using an instrument which can do both, namely combat speculation effectively and at the same time bring in revenue - estimated by the commission at 35 billion a year - to the coffers of the member states of the european union. you can be sure that we will do one thing. mr borg, tell your colleagues in the finance ministers: we will not rest. in a situation where the crises are intensifying, in a situation where the social misery in the european union is also intensifying, where 11 million children do not have a warm home and do not have enough to eat, we will not rest. and the finance ministers will not be able to bury the financial transaction tax. we shall see you here, in the final phase of the debate, in strasbourg or brussels. and you'll have to talk into europe's microphones about why you're failing. that's why our advice is that you don't fail.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not since the economic and financial crisis, eu countries have been cutting wages and pensions, and public investment. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax is not applied to the same extent as the tax on financial transactions. financial markets are growing faster than the real economy again. new crises are therefore likely. the financial lobby argues against the tax, saying that it would make it more expensive to finance investments and hedge against exchange rate fluctuations, for example. both are clearly unjustified, because the tax does not affect the stocks or bonds themselves, but only the excessive trading of them, such as the high-frequency trading of the flash boys, as described so brilliantly by the american author michael lewis in a bestseller. therefore, repo and government bonds are also included. the eu proposal would impose a tax of only 0.01% on the purchase of a foreign exchange option. such a tax could even prevent excessive currency speculation. the ten finance ministers who have committed themselves to the financial transaction tax must therefore finally deliver. and i hope the commission will support them in this.
i am not going to go into that. this debate is taking place a little earlier than originally planned, and that gives us a little more time. the groups have agreed not to redistribute speaking time entirely, but to be a little more flexible, so that i am not quite as strict as i usually am. but this should remain an exception, due to the agreement of the political groups.
president-in-office of the council. i also thank the honourable members for their thoughts. in this first opportunity i had, i enjoyed hearing the different speakers and those who genuinely have perhaps different views. while i also appreciate that there are honest members in this house, members who want to take a break from the maltese presidency also on the work we will be doing in these six months, and i think that the intervention of member regner is a synthesis of what we are committing ourselves to do, and so we will continue to see that those who want to make progress on this legislation will be able to do so, and i am committed as the presidency to continue to come here and to inform parliament as appropriate in the circumstances. as regards the maltese presidency, yes, i confirm that we will have, among the energy we will be devoting in the coming months, the work on the fourth 'anti-money laundering' directive and also the second 'tax evasion' directive, high on the respective council agenda.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, imagine, we are in the european union, we are in the 21st century, and yet there are people who are dying, who are freezing to death. there are children with frostbite inside the european union in the 21st century, and we seem to be unable to help effectively. how could we let this happen in our own european union for which we are all, together, responsible? i think a big part of it is the logic of trying to keep asylum seekers, migrants, refugees, whatever, out, and treating them badly, to stop them coming. we accept that people suffer so that others might be deterred, but is this really the europe that we want to live in? is this the europe that we imagined when we were running for this position, for example, and is this really acceptable to us? for me it is not and i believe for many of you it is not either. but if it is not acceptable, then we have to get real, we have to transfer refugees from the islands to the greek mainland. the big problem here is the turkey deal, because of the limitations it puts when turkey will only accept back refugees that come from the islands. but we put ourselves – or not us, but the council and the member states put themselves in this situation and they are putting pressure on greece not to transfer refugees to the mainland. we know that. that is why people are stuck on the islands, where there is no accommodation – nothing whatsoever. we need to relocate, relocate and relocate. only 6.4% of the 160 000 people promised have been relocated so far. this is nothing. again, we need the member states to act on that. but it is not just greece, it is also serbia, macedonia and bulgaria where we need to step up efforts of reception and accommodation. overall, we need to stop pretending that people will stop fleeing from war, from conflict, from persecution if we just make it really horrible for them here. this will not happen. we need to accept that reality and finally bring some dignity to the people, but also to europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the eu has a chronic deficit in its social dimension. that is why we need more than consultations and discussions: we need concrete legislation to strengthen the social dimension of the european union. it is important that parliament should adopt very clear lines here today, which i hope the commission will then adopt. for us social democrats, this includes an eu directive on fair and good working conditions. it must apply to all workers, including those who today are apparently selfemployed but are actually employed. we want a ban on zero-hour contracts. we believe that a basic child benefit, a so-called child guarantee, is very, very important. and a fair europe needs a social protocol, a europe-wide minimum income and a silver rule for social investment. so please, commission, act now! the social triple-a has been promised for a long time, but little has been done.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. let me start my speech on the report on the social pillar with a biblical quote: bereschit in the beginning was the word. yes, so too with the social pillar, which commission president juncker introduced as a concept for the first time in his state of the union speech in 2015. i quote: 'i want to develop a european pillar of social rights which can serve as a compass for the euro area.' that's what it said. unfortunately, voids like the social pillar invite many of the very creative colleagues in this house, in their regulatory frenzy, to fill them with suggestions. and that is exactly what happened with the owninitiative report. not even juncker's single demand for a pillar for the euro area was accepted. no, they are happy to call for directives, guidelines and regulations for the eu28, and in doing so they pretend that they have to reinvent social standards for europe. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to bring out the light from under the bushel. europe has the highest social standards in the world. we have a functioning positive competition of national social systems and a vibrant social partnership. we are growing in our diversity and respecting subsidiarity. that is the european social model. and i would like to see us develop this successful model further together with the member states and the social partners, rather than building frantically on a new pillar, the sustainability of which i already have serious doubts. i wish we could do better than we are doing, instead of constantly throwing around new super projects, seeking new power. europe has a sound social base, more stable than any new pillar. i think we will one day say of the social pillar: in the end, it is all about the word.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the commission has made a huge promise under the heading 'social pillar' and it is important to keep that promise, otherwise more and more people will become disillusioned with the eu and turn to right-wing populism and right-wing extremism. the first draft of the commission, which you mentioned earlier, madam commissioner, was disappointing because it contained nothing more than what we had always received as a policy of announcements. we very much hope that as a result of the public consultation and the participation of initiatives, organisations and people in this public consultation, and also by the european parliament, this report will bring more concrete results to the fore. we would like to encourage you to take the same approach with your proposal in march. social rights protect people from exploitation and abuse of power. it's about dignity, it's about personal freedom, and it's about social participation. we need to invest money and take concrete measures. i would therefore ask mr gericke: if the european social system works as well as you claim, then why are 120 million people in the european union living in poverty? but you don't seem to care. we demand that social rights must take precedence over economic freedoms. the crisis policy of the epp in recent years has created more poverty. the result is more poverty, more unemployment on the one hand, more wealth, speculative profits on the other. and we have a political responsibility here to correct things that have gone wrong. this has to stop! we need a real social union. this parliament has a duty to do more here, and i very much support the eu's accession to the council of europe's social charter. minimum wages equal to 60% of the median wage in the member states, strengthening collective bargaining at all levels, guaranteeing children free access to education, care, housing and good food. no one can argue with that. i would like to thank mrs rodrigues again for the very ambitious negotiating methods she has used. she has our support. we on the left would like to go further. but that would be a first step.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a clear message for workers - both those who are employed and those who are affected by unemployment: we want a social europe that does not leave them alone. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. a european pillar of social rights can show instruments, but it must take account of the autonomy of the member states: differences in wage developments, differences in minimum incomes. we need full transparency, not a secret commando thing. we must become more visible, more tangible, more audible. the epp programme a modern social europe provides an excellent basis for this. i have tabled a motion in the committee on employment, which will also be voted on today. i have proposed to convene an eu social convention not just online and not just to have a conference, but permanently to invite those affected: those affected by unemployment, young people, the elderly, the excluded, the social partners are to be involved. we need her experience. the european parliament will have a key role to play in this, as will national parliaments subsidiarity and civil society. and we need the companies that provide the most training and jobs. and i have proposed a special youth social convention. the young people must be able to speak. we need reform processes for sustainable social systems in the member states and for dynamic labour markets. that's the goal. the european pillar of social rights then has a chance of being a win.
mr president, there is a poisonous fear going around europe and the world at the moment: the fear of losing something, of losing jobs, of being deprived of social rights, the fear of ending up in poverty and precariousness, having to work at three jobs, 60 hours a week without breaks, without a pension to prevent poverty, without a security net to fall back on. we can meet this fear with ignorance, by simply denying it exists, but in the end we will all lose when right-wing populists and those wanting to profit from this fear find scapegoats in the weakest members of our societies. but we can also meet this fear with the strongest asset that this continent holds: solidarity. yes, to fight inequality we will need to tackle big macroeconomic issues, we will need good regulatory measures and we will need more tax justice. but we will also have to start with the reality of the very ordinary people – of the romanian child, the worker in ireland, the unemployed in greece, the pensioner in the netherlands. it is precisely through this proposal, the pillar of social rights, that we can meet the fears and the realities of very ordinary people. mr juncker said that we need to do big things big in the european union. i would like to say to madam thyssen that this is a big thing and i hope, madam thyssen, that you will do this big.
member of the commission. i would like to thank parliament first of all for this debate and i would like to thank parliament, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs first of all for the rich and ambitious report which i hope, but which also looks like it would have the broad support of this house if it were voted on in plenary. i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, and i hope that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. the european union is a place where things are not perfect, but where we must say that the social dimension has been concretized more than anywhere else in the world. more than anywhere else in the world, we have, through us, worked together to ensure that there is a good combination of economic growth and social progress, the essential characteristics of the social market economy, one of the objectives of the european treaty. wealth redistribution has also been achieved more than anywhere else in the world, although this does not prevent inequality from increasing in europe as well. but the world is changing, and it's changing fast. we are still dealing with the aftermath of the crisis and we have seen that it has also brought with it that instead of more convergence we have had more divergence between member states. but the world is also changing, especially through globalisation and digitalisation, which are having a profound impact on our economy and our way of living and working together. these changes are causing people concern. the people are indeed concerned about their freedom and security, about democracy, but also about their economic and social future, and that future is at stake. we need a new frame of reference, a new frame of reference against which to assess employment and social policy, new starting points. we must look at how we can ensure that in the future, in new circumstances, in times of globalisation, in times of technological change, how we can ensure that the principles of our social market economy are also taking shape in europe. that means we have a competitive economy, where quality jobs are created, but where jobs are also created with sustainable and adequate social protection and that throughout the life of people. we need a reference work and we need concrete action. words and frames of reference are not enough. we need to get something concrete out of this case. and we're going to start doing that very soon, and we're going to do it using the tools, the tools that we have at our disposal. legislative? yes, where we have powers and where it is appropriate. but also benchmarking, coordination and also the use of our funds, our financial resources. more than ever, the debate on social issues is part of the debate on the europe we want, on how we see the future of our european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. that's why it's good we held it here. it was time, more than ever, and i want to thank you very much for it. we have a lot of work to do and i hope that we can work very well together on the ground. thank you very much.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is true that wages as such are not part of the competences at european level. it is said explicitly in the treaty that wages belong to the competence of member states, and i think that is right because it also respects the autonomy of the social partners who, in most member states, have a say or have to decide on this, but it does not necessarily prevent us from setting benchmarks. if we want to go to convergence between member states, that could be good and it can be one of our objectives – that we look all together at what is a decent minimum wage, and what elements we need to decide upon that. we encourage member states to set a minimum wage, but in the end the decision belongs to the member states, and it is a principle that we have to respect. we want to respect the distribution of competences as foreseen in the treaty.
in writing. i am convinced that economic integration within the eu must be accompanied by social policy. the european market economy is a social market economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european pillar of social rights should accordingly play a supporting, complementary and coordinating role. however, it must be borne in mind that in the area of social policy, the responsibilities are not those of the eu but those of the member states, and that the principle of subsidiarity applies here: the design of redundancy protection, retirement age or parental leave is a matter for the member states.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. some colleagues in this house are disturbing the human rights emergency. they consider it to be pointless, a disruptive factor in relations with the countries concerned. but if you look at these countries with open eyes, it is very easy to see that our emergencies are being taken on board by governments, parliaments, the media and civil society. i am therefore particularly pleased that in this resolution the two arrested members of the west papua national committees, hosea yeimo and ismael alua, have been released while the resolution is still being drafted. the next step must be to drop the charges against the two for purely peaceful political activities. these are not isolated cases. there has been a sharp increase in political arrests in west papua. freedom of assembly and expression must be guaranteed, and laws such as articles 106 and 110 of the indonesian penal code must not be abused to criminalize peaceful political activity. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. is it not true that since the colony was dissolved by the netherlands, there has been a recommendation that west papua should be considered part of papua new guinea and that the island of new guinea should be considered a unit? has not the forced removal of the indigenous population from west papua been going on for decades, which has basically led to the indigenous population now being a minority?
author, answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not an expert on indonesia. but that's what i read, too. i just think we're gonna position ourselves right there. whether we are for independence or not, that actually breaks the framework of a human rights policy discussion.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am grateful that this house has maintained its intention on the central african republic which, as has already been said, is at a very critical moment in its history and where the european union has potential to make an important and positive difference. human rights are an important element of our approach, including our diplomatic dialogue. with the help of the international community, the central african republic has made important progress in the last couple of years, after one of the most painful periods in its history. credible presidential and parliamentary elections have provided the national authorities with legitimacy and a clear mandate to break with the past and lead the country towards recovery and peace. many challenges remain and the central african republic is still in a very fragile situation with very limited state control, unfortunately. insecurity continues to be widespread. in the past months we have seen a resurge of clashes between armed groups, again causing civilian deaths, new displacements, and serious human rights violations which are mostly the consequences of armed violence. the killing of three blue helmets at the beginning of january was a sad reminder of this insecurity, as well as a reminder of the importance of the work of minusca, which as you know the european union fully supports. the ongoing fragility also hampers the much-needed access for humanitarian and development actors to some areas. president touadéra speaks with strong conviction about the need for national conciliation and justice, and his government has taken the first steps to establish a dialogue with the armed groups in order to disarm, demobilise, reintegrate and repatriate them. we need to encourage this process and make sure that both pillars – reconciliation and justice – receive appropriate attention, as true reconciliation will not be possible without rendering justice for serious violations of human rights. improving the capacity of the justice system, as well as reforming the security forces are therefore key. the european union, as the central african republic’s most important partner, continues to support the government in these efforts. the european union has invested more than eur 500 million in the central african republic in the last three years, and the brussels conference for the central african republic last november, co-chaired by the high representative, led to more than 2 billion pledges, 750 million of them from the european union, and our member states are as usual the largest donors. i attended the conference myself and i saw the strong commitment of all those present to make a difference. the challenge now is to deliver and effectively implement the central african republic’s national plan. this is the crucial challenge for the national authorities and, of course, for the international community and us, the european union. addressing human rights in transitional justice is at the centre of the european union’s approach in the central african republic. in our political dialogue with the authorities as well as with regional and international partners, we continue to advocate ending impunity for human rights violations in the central african republic and improving the protection of the most vulnerable groups, among them, unfortunately, women, children and minorities. 2017 will be a decisive year for the central african republic. the european union stands ready to continue our support to put the country firmly on the path of peace and reconstruction.
the central african republic remains in a difficult situation. despite the peaceful elections in february 2016 and president touadéra's efforts to stabilize the country after years of armed conflict, human rights violations continue to be reported on a daily basis. the insidious and intolerable attacks on un peacekeepers - in which three soldiers were killed - are further evidence of the continuing instability in the country. the national plan for recovery and peacebuilding, drawn up jointly by the eu, the un and the central african government, must be implemented without delay to prevent a repeat of the atrocities against the population and the attacks on peacekeepers. the plan includes measures to curb violence in the country through disarmament and reintegration of former combatants, to reorganise the country's security policy, to reform the judicial system and to punish human rights violations consistently, and to promote reconciliation and strengthen social cohesion. only if the government in bangui actively works towards ensuring that the rule of law prevails in central africa, not the rule of the strongest, can this country with the help of its international partners return to normalcy.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. once again, the situation in burundi has been the subject of the plenary since april 2015, when president nkurunziza - one of the richest men in africa, and one of the poorest in the world - announced that he would not resign, as the burundian constitution actually requires. since then, the country has been ruled by the arbitrariness of the ruler and the terror of the imbonerakure militia he created. hundreds of people have already been killed, thousands imprisoned, 300,000 have fled to neighbouring countries. freedom of expression is suppressed and freedom of the press is abolished. the threat of a revival of the civil war that ended 12 years ago. that is why i think it is urgent that we deal with the situation there. it is regrettable, however, that we have not yet succeeded in formulating a joint resolution with our african partners at the acp-eu meeting. we must make it clear to them that we are not concerned with interfering in the internal affairs of an african country, but that we are concerned with stability in the region, with the fate of many hundreds of thousands of people and with the respect for civil and human rights.
i will be very brief, i supported this material because in the context of a customs union, it is necessary to ensure that communication between the customs authorities of the member states is as efficient as possible. this material builds on what was already adopted and started last year, namely that the individual customs authorities should communicate electronically and from 2020 that communication should be 100% completely electronic. this report, which relates to this communication change, is in my view correct, it commits the commission to follow the whole process and to inform the ep of the results. this legislation will undoubtedly lead to a faster and better functioning of the customs union.
the next item is the debate on the commission's statement on building a european data economy (2017/2505 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, on 10 january, the commission presented one of the last digital single market initiatives addressing europe’s digital future, which concerns data. with the adoption of the communication on building the european data economy, the commission launched a public consultation. data has become an essential resource for economic growth and social progress. in the near future, most economic activity will depend on data. the data market is estimated in the european union at more than eur 50 billion and models project its growth to eur 111 billion in 2020. in the digital single market strategy we committed to tackling restrictions on the free movement of data in the european union, considered essential for the european union’s successful transition to industry 4.0 and a modern data economy. the barriers to the free movement of data in the european union may arise from legal rules or administrative guidelines or practices that required the storage or processing of data to be limited to a particular geographical area or jurisdiction. the trend, both globally and in europe, is towards more data localisation, an approach often based on the misconception that localised services are automatically safer than cross—border services. this could inhibit data—driven businesses, particularly start—ups and smes, from scaling up their activities or entering new markets, but it could also block access for businesses and public sector organisations to cheaper and more innovative data services. the commission wants to ensure that europe’s fundamental freedoms concerning the movement of services and establishment are also respected when it comes to data services. the principle of free movement of personal data based services is enshrined in european union primary and secondary law. any member state’s action affecting data storage or processing should be guided by a principle of free movement of data within the eu in line with their obligations under the free movement of services and the free establishment provisions of the treaty, but also by obligations stemming from relevant secondary legislation. the current data protection regulation fully regulates the processing of personal data in the european union, including machine-generated or industrial data when this identifies a natural person. by setting uniform high standards of data protection, the general data protection regulation (gdpr) ensures the free flow of personal data in the european union. in this context, as announced in the communication, the commission will soon enter into structured dialogues with the member states and other stakeholders on the justification for, and proportionality of, data allocation measures. it will take as a starting point restrictions already identified by the commission. following the results of the structured dialogues with member states and other stakeholders and further evidence gathering via public consultations, the commission will launch, where needed and appropriate, infringement proceedings to address unjustified or disproportionate data location measures. it will also, if necessary, take further initiatives on the free flow of data. the communication also addresses other aspects of the data economy such as data ownership, data transfer and liability issues, for example who owns data, how it can be exploited and where responsibility should lie if an automatic device makes the wrong choice. these are essential issues to clarify for a working data economy. this part of the communication further examines issues connected with access to data and how more data can become available for use and reuse. large—scale trading, sharing or exchange of data, is unfortunately rare today in the european union. finally, we need to look into improving the portability of business data. for example, a company cannot yet easily switch its data between cloud service providers. portability can lower costs and increase trust and therefore also lower entry barriers for innovative ideas. in the communication, the commission makes it clear that more information is needed on the above areas. to this end we have launched two public consultations and will enter into structured dialogues with the member states and other stakeholders to seek out workable solutions. following the results of the dialogues and the further evidence-gathering, these solutions may include guidance, benchmarks, model contracts or other new initiatives if these are deemed necessary. our overall objective is to remove barriers and support data economy developments. indeed, the more the data available is used and flows freely, the better the data economy will develop and help to create growth and jobs. on 10 january, the commission also adopted its proposal for a regulation on privacy and electronic communications after a year-long review of the e—privacy directive. if we want to make the most of data, people must feel confident that their data is protected. this is why the commission is proposing new rules on privacy and the protection of personal data in electronic communications. the measures aim to update the current rules, extending their scope to all electronic communication providers. they also aim to create new possibilities to process communication data and reinforce trust and security in the digital single market, which is a key objective of the digital single market strategy. a major objective of the review is to align the rules for electronic communications with the new world-class standards of the european union’s general data protection regulation. as you know, europeans are concerned about their privacy. electronic communications can reveal highly sensitive information about a person or a business. in a recent eurobarometer survey, 92% of respondents say it is important, or very important, that personal information on their computer, smartphone or tablet can only be accessed with their permission. 92% also state that it is important – or again very important – that the confidentiality of their emails and online instant messaging is guaranteed. the proposed regulations on privacy and electronic communications seek to address those concerns. at the same time, the new rules will support innovation and increase consumer trust in electronic communication services essential for the digital single market to flourish. the proposed regulation will increase the protection of people’s private lives and open up new opportunities for business by taking the following four measures. first of all, the commission proposes an extension of the scope to include providers of electronic communication services such as whatsapp, facebook messenger, skype, gmail, imessage and viber. secondly, the confidentiality of communications’ content and metadata remain the core of the legal instrument. so privacy will be guaranteed for both content and metadata derived from electronic communications, for example the time and duration of a call and location. thirdly, the proposal provides for new business opportunities. once consent is given for communications data to be processed, traditional telecom operators will have more opportunities to use data and provide additional services. finally, simpler rules on cookies are needed. therefore the so—called cookie provision, which has resulted in an overload of consent requests for internet users, will be streamlined. new rules will allow users to be more in control of their settings, providing an easy way to accept or refuse the tracking of cookies and other identifiers in case of privacy risks. the commission believes that the extensive consultation of stakeholders, better regulation evaluation and the impact assessment resulted in a balanced and technologically neutral proposal fit for the digital age. finally, on 10 january the commission presented new rules to ensure that, when personal data are handled by european institutions and bodies, privacy is protected in the same way as it is in member states under the general data protection regulation. the commission also presented a strategic framework for international personal data transfers where it reiterated its commitment to encouraging data transfers with our partners, businesses or companies based on high personal data protection standards. the eu is a world leader on data protection rules and we serve as an inspiration for many third countries. those with whom we have very close economic ties are interested in adequacy findings – this is particularly the case for japan and south korea – and we will engage with them. our aim is to promote high data protection standards internationally.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not first of all, i'd like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your convincing re-election. i look forward to seeing you here often in this house for the next two and a half years. secondly, i am pleased that commissioner thyssen, who was once a member of the european parliament's internal market committee, is presenting today this important package of european commission legislation on the data economy. thank you very much. the package is so broad and so large that i want to concentrate on just one aspect: the aspect which was put forward here by günter oettinger, the outgoing commissioner who is now responsible for the budget. i think this is a really comprehensive package, which puts the right emphasis on the fundamental questions of the data economy and addresses these questions fundamentally, and above all the question of data ownership in the digital age. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we can find solutions for that. but the big uncertainty facing many smes is that they don't know how to open up to the digital economy on the one hand, and at the same time ensure that their data is adequately secure and protected. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of the internet and to improve the quality of information. but of course, there is also the question of what incentives the legislator provides for the sharing of data. the best example is always the question of which data in the car can be assigned to which service provider. and this question, mrs thyssen - i must say this - has not been settled definitively by the proposal. it's also an incredibly difficult question politically and economically. if we fail to provide incentives for the data that is available to be used by all the providers in the market who are interested in it, we will not be able to provide the much-needed impetus to the european data economy. secondly, i am very pleased that the commission has explicitly addressed the so-called lock-in effect in this proposal - an effect which has played a role in competition proceedings but has not played a role in legislation so far.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the members of parliament for their comments and feedback. i took note of all their questions and concerns. as i said in my introduction, we do not have all the answers yet to all those issues. that is why we are engaging in a broad consultation before deciding on possible policy and legal actions. we are looking forward to pursuing collaboration with the european parliament on these issues. we are very much looking forward to constructive discussions with the european parliament in the negotiation of the commission’s legislative proposal on the privacy and data protection of electronic communications. it is important to act swiftly in order to ensure that the date of application of the general data protection regulation and the new e-privacy regulation coincide and is done in a coherent manner. as announced in the dsm, the commission’s objective is to create a clear and adapted policy and legal framework for the data economy by removing barriers to the movement of data and addressing legal uncertainties created by new technologies. we do not yet have, as i said, all the answers to the complex issues in front of us, so we will consult extensively. the gathered information will be invaluable in deciding how to best move forward, in particular with respect to the free flow of data.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 3.35 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to ask you to make contact with the commission and council in order to push for the refusal of the accreditation of the designated us ambassador, ted malloch. mr malloch has shown extreme hostility towards the european union and the core idea of european integration. i think he should be persona non grata in brussels.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the trust of citizens in the state is the foundation of our understanding of the state, and when corruption takes place, then this basic principle of trust in the state is massively shaken. that is why the fight against corruption is the fight for europe and for the rule of law. we are now witnessing in romania, unfortunately for god, the abolition of the criminal law tonight by decree of the government. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. we therefore believe that it is an occasion to discuss these developments in romania. if the state is bought, through corruption, then this is a very serious intervention. we respect that hundreds of thousands of people in romania are on the streets demonstrating against this. we support the president of romania who is protesting against these initiatives and using his power. the european parliament must deal with this issue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i'm asking for clarification. so we're proposing that the discussion take place in this mini-plenary, which is after our presentation tomorrow morning. if the socialists agree to this, we can do so, but we do not think it would be right to delay the debate any further. i'm not going anywhere. then we'd be supporting it.
mr president, i think ms fotyga had an amendment to our agenda and order of business. she asked, taking up ms corazza bildt’s proposal, to put the ukrainian crisis and the escalation in avdiyivka on our agenda in this mini-session. according to our working methods, if there is such a request, we should vote on it.
vpc/hr. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating you on your election as president of this parliament and to wish you, or rather to be sure of you, excellent cooperation, which we have already begun. i would also like to underline one element. i fully agree with what my friends, ms fotyga and ms corazza bildt, raised. in the foreign affairs council on monday, the situation in ukraine will be on the agenda with the foreign ministers, and that will also give us an opportunity to reiterate our full support for the country and for the full implementation of the minsk agreement. turning to the issue on our agenda today, i would start by saying that europe and the united states of america are bound by an old and deep friendship. personally i have always looked and i still look at the united states with great respect and admiration, as a land where everyone can succeed whatever their social, ethnic or cultural background. it is a land of opportunities, a land of hope and dreams, a country that has always been great precisely because it has always been open and has always been a champion of freedoms. as a good friend of the united states, i believe europe has a duty to be clear respectful and clear whenever disagreement arises, especially when it relates to our fundamental values. we certainly disagree with the executive order issued by the president of the united states on january 27 as, it seems, many in the us do too. as you know, the executive order introduces a temporary suspension, for a period of 90 days, of the entry into the united states of foreign nationals from seven countries: iraq, syria, sudan, iran, somalia, libya and yemen. a temporary suspension is also foreseen, for a period of 120 days, of the us refugee admissions program, in principle so that no new refugee application can be accepted until the us secretary of state, in conjunction with the secretary of homeland security, reviews the current application process. there have been questions about which citizens are affected by the travel ban. i would like to tackle this issue immediately and then focus on what to me is even more important. the us department of state clarified yesterday that european union citizens will not be affected by the ban, even if they hold dual citizenship in one of the seven countries listed in the executive order. we welcome this clarification, but let me be absolutely clear that this does not change our overall assessment of the executive order. (applause) i have already made clear in recent days where the european union stands on this. no one no one can be deprived of his or her own rights because of their place of birth, their religion or their ethnicity. this is written in our constitutions, both in europe and in america. this is who we are, this is our identity, and this is something we cannot forget. our european history has taught us to celebrate when a wall is torn down and a bridge is built. we learned from our own great, but also tragic, history that every human being is, first and foremost, a person with fundamental rights that cannot be questioned. let me add, from a personal point of view, that i found it really sad to learn that this executive order was issued on january 27th, holocaust remembrance day, that is first and foremost a day to commemorate millions of jews killed by nazis, but also to reject any discrimination and to reflect on our duty to host those who flee from persecution and protect them and their rights. (applause) many of them -- most of them actually -- are fleeing from terrorist groups such as daesh. they are victims of terrorism and, beyond being refugees, they are men, women and children with personal stories, dreams, fears and deep wounds. most of all, they have a future to build, also for the sake of their own countries and our own security, because the social reconstruction of their countries depends on them. so let me actually, i should say let's be very clear. the european union will not turn back anyone who has the right to international protection. this is where we stand. this is where we continue to stand. it would not be moral, it would not be just, it would not be legal, and it would not be in our interest, because this kind of measure has the potential to increase tensions and mistrust among peoples and nations. when i say among people, i also mean among people in our own societies. i am concerned by the trends we are seeing within american society at the moment, and that is why, with a lot of respect, i invited the president of the united states to pay attention to what is happening in his own country. only respect and cooperation can make us more secure. only respect and cooperation can help us manage the many crises around the world. this is the european way. we work together with the countries experiencing a crisis and with their neighbours all of them. a travel ban can maybe maybe give a temporary illusion of addressing the issue, but it can only create more frustration and anger. we need cooperation, not closures. we need to engage and to build common ground, not to ban. the eu will continue to be a partner and a strong point of reference for all countries in the region, regardless of the religion of their citizens. we will continue to be a partner and a strong point of reference for all those in the world who believe in international cooperation, human rights and the rule of law. this is also why the european union is the largest donor in the world to the syrian people and their neighbouring countries, with more than eur 9 billion invested since the start of the fighting in syria. so far, the european union and the us have worked closely together, including at the un summit on refugees in new york, because a global issue requires global common work. bold commitments were made, both to protect the human rights of all refugees and migrants, and to counter hate speech against refugees and migrants. the eu is always ready to engage with the new us administration to follow up on these commitments, as well as on the many other achievements we have managed to build together in recent years, and which are today key fundamental elements of our european union policy from climate change to the iran deal, from the middle east peace process to our support for the un system and a free and fair trade system. on the basis of this very clear international agenda, we will work with the us administration as partners with full reciprocal respect. this is the european union way. these are our principles, our values and our interests. i believe we have a responsibility, both towards our citizens and our partners in the region and beyond, in the world, to be true to our values and identity, and show leadership and strength. (applause from the left)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have the issue of entry regulations today, but we all know and feel that there is more to it. we support the position put forward today by federica mogherini on behalf of the commission, but as i said, there is more to it. trump is elected, he's in office. we respect that, it was a democratic decision. and we as the epp want cooperation, we just want to talk to each other - each in his or her own responsibility - to build bridges with each other. the first thing to do is to show respect for the result of the elections. we in the epp also want differentiation. when donald trump says, for example, that he is fighting illegal immigration, he has us as epp on his side. if he says he is fighting against islamist terrorism, then he has us as the epp on his side. and we are also pleased that after the conversation with theresa may and also after the telephone calls with angela merkel, there is now a clear commitment to nato in the room. thank you for that. but the positive is not what is predominant, unfortunately, when we look at the statements of donald trump in the last weeks and the activities of the last days. america is actually the land of the free, the united states is actually the land of immigrants. that's the image i've had in my head since i was a kid. general suspicion for individual states, general suspicion for individual religious communities: it doesn't lead to friendship and the elimination of hatred, it leads to new hatred. the canadian bomber who murdered muslims in ottawa specifically referred to trump. the united states has always been the land of the free market, the free market economy, for me. now we have an american president who wants to break off all trade relations, end ttip talks, tear up the trans-pacific agreement. we europeans want trade, we want partnership in fair world trade, and that is why we will vote for ceta in february, and thus send a clear signal. we also support commissioner malmström in all her efforts to engage with mexico, canada, japan and others and to strengthen trade. we want this deal. the united states has always been for me - to give a third example - the land of fundamental rights, of human rights, for which people have fought and died. and now trump is standing up and saying that torture is effective and he's giving his agencies a free hand. when a state uses torture, that state itself becomes a criminal. and that's why it can't happen. there was a hint earlier today that there might be a new u.s. ambassador coming. we already have an american ambassador sitting here with nigel farage, but there is another coming who sees the euro as the end, who sees brexit as the beginning. and that's the great new independence of britain, that now instead of going to brussels, you have to go to washington and get everything approved. but i would also like to say on behalf of the epp group: if we had to welcome an american ambassador here who questions the euro and who wishes for the end of the european union, then he cannot be accredited by the european institutions. we can't work with a partner like that. putin is expanding his sphere of influence, he is using war to advance his interests, and he wants a weak europe. donald trump is looking at the economy, "america first". he sees europe and china as the two great economic competitors that can face america on equal terms. he too wants a weak europe, a divided europe, a divided europe. that is why the next weeks, months and years will be about fundamental questions, namely whether we stand together or not. if we look at the history of the united states and also the history of the united kingdom, i think of names like roosevelt and churchill. these were politicians who fought side by side for freedom and against totalitarianism and national egoism, who did not look first at national egoism but fought for values. reagan and thatcher together brought communism to its knees with the nato double-dealing, they did not first look selfishly at what was right for the country, but what was right for the world. both of the couples i just described fought for freedom in this world. i wish today's leading politicians would do the same. unfortunately, donald trump and theresa may are the embodiment of national egoism, and no longer carrying the flame of freedom in this world. the world is changing fundamentally, and that is why i and my group ask that valletta send a clear, strong signal on friday, as donald tusk has already done in his letter. le pen says the eu is a protectorate of the us, and i think that valletta can show that this is not the case, that europe is united and strongly stands up for what we call our values.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we are not dealing with the politics of the united states today for the first time, and certainly not for the last time, and in particular with the trump administration. and i thank you very much, mrs mogherini, for also making the connection with the time when mr trump issued his executive order to restrict or stop the entry of muslim citizens - on 27 january. this is not just a matter of thoughtlessness that mr trump has shown, but it is a matter of system. it has a system because he simultaneously - almost on the same day - insulted the democratic mp schumer when he spoke about what it means when people are excluded because of their faith, and trump asked him what a bad acting teacher he had had, against the background of his biography, in view of the death of his grandfather and close family member in german concentration camps. i think it's this kind of confrontation that we're going to get we have to get used to it. but we should be clear that if we want to prove that our system, that the european union has done something to counter this contempt for people, we have to prove that we are better. you have indicated in a tweet that the european union is a safe house for migrants. no, it's not that either. so let's actually prove and counter our values to this contempt of trump and let's make sure that with another, with a solidarity immigration policy, that people seeking protection are not seen here as the root of evil and as those who bring terror and crime to us, but that we remain committed to our values and act together here. i repeat: what would have become of the post-war democracies here in europe after 1945 if many of the refugees who were fleeing europe and the world in the time of national socialism - the worst kind of german fascism - had not been granted asylum? where would we have ended up? how much would we have missed them if they had fallen into the hands of the nazis? and that is what has to make us commit to not playing these games. but not just to fight back, but to show what we can do better, to show that we have something to fight back against, and that we're cooperating with the american people who are fighting back here. and by the way, i'll close with this: what really gave me hope in those days is that immediately on the day of the inauguration and in the days that followed, all over the world, and especially in the united states, thousands, hundreds of thousands of women stood up against that image of humanity. it is not just about discrimination against women, but about respect and dignity for all people, whether women or marginalized, regardless of their origin, nationality or religion. that is what we are about, and that is what we must also do. let's fight trump and his ideology by preventing him from getting into any situation where he actually triggers the button! if we take a little more care about security, we will finally get rid of american nuclear weapons from eu soil! there are still some in germany. i'm worried about that, too.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the 45th president of the united states of america is truly opening a new chapter in the history of the us and in the history of democracy as well. let us very clear: this ban on seven countries is not something that is put forward for security or one of the other reasons. it is very clearly a discriminatory act. it is targeting muslims. even though not only muslims are hit, and even if it does not hit all muslims, it is directed against people because of their religion. who could have imagined that such a thing could happen? who could have thought that the freedoms and the rights that we all assume are normal and natural, that we have always had and think are guaranteed, can evaporate so quickly and can disappear so suddenly? this is apparently how liberal democracy dies. it vanishes very quickly with an executive order. the us built itself on religious freedom – that was one of the key figures of its founding – and on immigration. now what is left of this american dream? how quickly did it vanish. but that is also the point isn’t it? all the rights, the freedoms and the liberties that we take for granted are actually not for granted. they always have to be fought for. they have to be fought for every single day. democracy is not something that you set up, you write into your constitution and then, voilà, it is there. no, you have to defend it every single day. the same goes for human rights. they are never guaranteed. you have to work for them. here in europe we pride ourselves on living in a union of peace, democracy and the rule of law. we are proud to defend the idea of human rights in the world as well, but do we really do enough to safeguard those values? don’t we also restrict access at our borders? don’t we also have walls and fences? do we not also – even in this chamber sometimes – hear people who discriminate against other people based on where they come from and based on their religion? and what are we doing about that? every one of us, including the governments of the member states, need to be clear on which side we stand. do we stand on the side of hate and of walls, or do we stand on the side of democracy and of building bridges? i think we need to build our european union stronger, and for that we need to get our act together when it comes to finally solving the economic crisis that is still leading to so much unemployment, especially for young people. we need to coordinate our foreign policy and we need to be champions of international law because there are not many other people out there in the world who will do so. we need to step up our role in the un and also when it comes to climate change. let us make europe the counter—model to trump, the light of liberty of human rights and the rule of law, and also of generosity. let us be the ones who show justice and compassion. let us make sure that we are not just speaking of those values, but are actually demonstrating them in everything we do. the statue of liberty was once given by france to the younger sister, america – sisters in freedom and rights. i think we should build more statues of liberty. we need to put them in lesbos and lampedusa, where people arrive full of hope and fear. we need to put them everywhere where people are standing up for their rights and also for their neighbour’s rights. let us be the europe that brings forward and champions those people who fight for their rights and the rights of others, no matter what their nationality, religion, sex or sexual orientation, and no matter where they come from. europe needs to be building bridges and not walls. let us do that together. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is well on track to meet its environmental targets. we are the climate champions of the world in co2, in renewables, in savings. but we are also world champions in energy costs for small businesses and households, especially in backward regions. we are the world champions in reducing the bureaucratic burden on industry. the commission has therefore analysed the consequences of the legislation in greater detail this time, avoiding overlapping legislation, in greater detail but not yet sufficiently. i do not think that a mandatory 30% savings target makes sense for all countries and all sectors. this is because the same principle applies to green energy. if we want green energy in cars and buildings, we cannot simultaneously prevent this structural change by imposing austerity on renewable energy. but not enough. we in parliament - the left, the liberals - want 40% less energy consumption. the commission's impact assessment says that this would undermine the ets. we would have to intervene again, withdraw certificates from the market, and the industry would again be uncertain and disappointed with europe. we must therefore also remain ambitious on the subject of energy saving, but please do not go overboard, otherwise we will be driving european industry out of business. we are opposed to planned austerity measures designed to last for decades. we are in favour of legislation on energy that breathes, of moderate energy savings in line with incentives and markets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank you for the good proposals on the clean energy package. and now the ball is in our court, and of course in the court of the council. we will now work at full speed to complete the right course for a european energy union during this parliamentary term. the commission has put forward good and, above all, binding proposals on the energy efficiency directive and on renewable energy sources. this is an important first step. i would like to say this again: courage to be more ambitious. for energy efficiency, the commission is unfortunately proposing only a 'continuation' although the 2020 targets have already been reached and there is still a lot of potential. we social democrats are therefore calling for a 40% energy efficiency target at eu level and binding national targets. binding national targets are crucial because they ensure that all member states do their homework. and the same applies to renewable energy sources: courage to be more ambitious. and here too we will pursue a 40% target, even with binding national targets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we talk about it all the time: europe. we must ensure that the europeans have a say in the european project. we are constantly concerned that europe is strong. we would then have to ensure that europe is economically strong, because that is the important prerequisite. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national networks. i miss that. then it is not the time to make a new plan every day or to announce higher percentages. we have had this in lisbon before: higher, further, better, to be the best. it's much smarter to take small steps and show success. it's not plans that are needed, but actions. i'm sure you will. there are some interesting things in this pile of paper we have here. the first is: i think it's smart that we move away from this renewable-fuel patchwork of subsidies and instead have the task of organising this through tenders, approaching it in a market economy. i think this is a smart contribution that can save a lot of money. but on the other hand, it is not at all intelligent to try to improve the acer system and the monitoring of the system by making a european authority even bigger, more efficient, more effective, or more inflated. that's not the right answer. it's working! we have no problem at the moment with the cable operators not working, but what is missing is what the honourable member has just said: that there are not enough lines. but this is not a problem of surveillance and new authorities or organizations, but of investment. and investment is only made if those who run the networks can also make money.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank the commission for putting the issue of energy and climate change in the energy union on the agenda again in today's communication. we need to continue to prioritize climate action, even after the election of donald trump, where times are getting a little bit more difficult. but there are very clear signals from our international partners that we are moving forward with the agenda to paris. a few years ago, i would not have thought that china, for example, would commit to continue even if there was some uncertainty in the united states. but we cannot achieve our climate objectives by driving industry out of europe. we have a difficult debate in strasbourg in two weeks' time, in the run-up to the vote on emissions trading, and i think we need a good compromise solution. that means everyone has to do their part. that is why i attach such importance to the proposal you made in november on energy efficiency. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and transport must also play its part. we're still waiting for a proposal. i hope he comes very soon, i hear, as early as friday this week. we must continue to include aviation in emissions trading because the issues discussed at international level are not yet sufficiently clear and ambitious. we should not let air transport go uncommitted, even if we want to be fair to the other industries.
i regret that i cannot call all the speakers who have been announced in the following catch-the-eye procedure, because we are already rather late in the day. catch the eye
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members not only for their encouraging words and strong support, but also for the call to be even more ambitious in our efforts to transform the european energy system and to do it through robust governance. i would like to assure you that, whenever it is possible to improve our proposals, we are ready to work very closely with the members of the european parliament and with the council to make sure that the proposal we put on the table last november really leads to the most profound transformation of the energy systems in europe since they were built in today’s centralised and fossil-fuel-centred way. our two afternoon plenary debates confirmed that we in europe are following developments in the usa with growing anxiety. my colleague, high representative/vice-president mogherini, was discussing with you one hour ago the problems with visas and the proper treatment of visitors to the united states. and i will, of course, say a few words about climate action and the paris agreement. i want to make it very clear that, for us, the paris agreement is a historic achievement. it is a binding international treaty which was jointly negotiated, approved and ratified and has entered into force, and we are ready to continue our communication and exchange of views with the united states because we believe we have very strong arguments. the implementation of the paris agreement is important not only for preserving life on our planet, for preserving mankind, but also because it has huge potential for modernising our economy: from bringing electricity to the 1.3 billion people on this planet who do not currently have access to it to really accelerating the implementation and use of all the innovations we have in our labs and our companies. i also want to make it very clear that europe is ready to continue to lead in these efforts. i know that this readiness to provide leadership is very much welcomed by our partners across the world, be it on energy transition or climate action, be it in the area of development aid, where we want to use our clean technology to provide access to electricity to the peoples in africa and in asia, or be it on free and fair trade. i hope that this realistic and pragmatic discussion will take place again in the united states because i can hardly think of any other nation which is so affected by weather-related disasters, be it hurricanes or whirlwinds, or any of the other tragedies we have seen on our screens. you have been highlighting the importance of putting citizens as consumers at the centre of our efforts and using this energy transition to fight energy poverty and air pollution, and i absolutely agree with you. this is a must for the european union. we cannot lose 450 000 people every year because of high pollution. we cannot have, on our tv screens, pictures of our cities which remind us of beijing or delhi, and we cannot accept the fact that 50 million europeans have to choose between paying their energy bills or buying food for their families. therefore, we are introducing what i believe will lead to a more common approach in fighting energy poverty. the european observatory on energy poverty will be up and running by the end of this year. we will be talking about how, jointly with the eu member states, we can tackle this challenge together. we believe that energy efficiency is a very important part of the answer, and that new electricity market design, with strong rules on the procedure leading to disconnection, should be another very important lever for improving the situation of our citizens. i know that europe’s mayors – who very often are the first addressees of citizens’ complaints about air pollution or energy poverty or vulnerable sections of society – are ready to work with us very actively in the global covenant of mayors for climate & energy. i understand all those honourable members who have reminded us of the importance of energy security. you know that we are dealing with that very seriously, and i think this is strongly reflected in our report: 22 out of 28 countries are actually better off; having better infrastructure and interconnectors with reverse flows is giving us much more confidence; the european market is much more liquid than it ever was before; we are open to lng and to caspian gas; and we are ready to develop the east med gas reserve with its huge potential, probably as big as that of the norwegian reserve. we are also putting into practice rules which will no longer allow any abuse of a dominant position in the european market. in this context i would also like to thank and congratulate the maltese presidency because today they managed to secure the mandate for trilogue on the security of gas supply and i believe that, working together with the representatives of the european parliament, this very important legislation on providing greater security of supply for european consumers will be agreed very soon. the last two points i want to mention concern investment and infrastructure. i totally agree with mr kelly, who underscored the importance of regulatory stability, vision and the alignment of goals at global, european, national and local levels. we have to work on that, and if we achieve it i am sure that we will also be able to secure investment because this represents a huge investment opportunity for private investors and for cities, and i am sure there will be huge demand in terms of putting all the new and innovative technologies at the service of our citizens. mr tamburrano suggested that we could use crowd funding, and this is actually one of the options we are studying under the capital markets union. we are going to explore the possibilities here and look at how we can merge these two unions and use the potential of capital markets to invest in european energy infrastructure. i totally agree with you when we talk about investment that it should be smart investment. we should be very careful about stranded assets. we should think twice about where we put both private and public money. and this leads me to my last point, on excessive infrastructure. i was listening to you very carefully and i know very well your concerns on nord stream 2. i want to reassure you that european law would be fully respected, and that we are highlighting the fact that, even in such a harsh winter as this one, the transport capacity used for getting russian gas to europe is somewhere between 50% to 60%. i would emphasise too that we have consensus in the european union – and the high representative could be the best witness to that because we discussed it in the foreign affairs council too – about the preservation and continuation of the ukrainian gas transit route. there is consensus among all the eu member states that we want to have it operational after 2019. i would like to thank the honourable members for a great debate. i am looking forward very much to working on our proposals which are on the table and on the proposals on low-carbon mobility which we are going to present in the course of this year.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the management of migration along the central mediterranean route (2017/2547 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i believe that the upcoming informal summit in malta, starting on friday, will be an opportunity for us to show that efficient – and at the same time human – management of migration is possible and is a must, if we work together, both as europeans in solidarity and in partnership with our friends, the countries of origin and of transit. we must repeat once again, as we did here just an hour ago, that refugees must be welcome. this is a strong position that the european union has and will continue to have. at the same time, without any contradiction – and, on the contrary, with some complementarity – we must say that the pain and the deaths caused by smugglers have to be stopped. i have seen with my own eyes people who have managed to survive – their stories are ones that nobody should have to live through, nobody should have to listen to. it is, first and foremost, a humanitarian duty not only to save lives but also to protect the lives of the people who are migrating. as you know very well, in the last two years we have been working literally day and night to reduce human suffering, first and foremost, and to reduce the loss of life on the various routes leading to europe: in the mediterranean sea, of course, but also in places where the loss of life and the violation of human rights are less evident to the tv cameras, in particular in the desert. in the central mediterranean, our operation sophia alone saved more than 32 000 people last year. each and every one of them represents a precious result for me in a war that we are at last waging as the european union. we also apprehended more than 100 smugglers, who are now in the hands of the law. our migration compacts with five african countries have started to reduce substantially the irregular flows. for instance, the number of people crossing irregularly from niger into libya has decreased to its lowest level in years. we thus see that our action is starting to deliver in real terms, the first concern always being to save and protect human lives. the report adopted yesterday by the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on development on the role of our external action on addressing the movements of refugees and migrants encourages me to keep on this path of closer cooperation with third countries, including in relation to regular channels for entry to the european union. i would ask for your support on this specific point because, among the commitments made by the european union with our partners at the valletta summit last year was that of working more on the regular channels for migration. the more we work to prevent irregular flows, the more we need to offer regular channels. we know very well that this is a difficult debate in each and every one of the member states and also in this parliament. it was not by chance that, back in december, the commission increased the resources for various mobility opportunities, and this is just the beginning. last year we had more than 4 500 deaths at sea in the central mediterranean. believe me, i wish we could name each and every one of them because, as long as we refer just to numbers, it is much easier to forget them or to see this as a phenomenon. each and every one of these people has a history, a story, a name and a future – or they should have had. yet at times we do not even know their names. that is why all of us in the european union need to do more, in a spirit of solidarity among europeans and with our partners, who also have to take some ownership of the management of this problem. when we see people dying in the desert, or close to the libyan coast, we need to have discussions with, and to help, our partners do their part to save lives and to make sure that the protection of human beings and their human rights is fully taken on board – and i will come back to that in a minute. we all need to do more, first of all to end the suffering, and to manage human mobility better. last week i presented a package of additional measures, worth eur 200 million, that will feed into the discussion at the malta summit the day after tomorrow. migration has, of course, always existed. i have been accused many times of constantly pointing out, firstly, that, until a couple of decades ago, migration used to be from europe to the rest of the world and, secondly, that if we had to live without migrants in all our societies and all our economies we would suffer a lot of negative consequences. imagine the cost of non—migration to our european economies and you will realise that, indeed, we are talking not about a bad phenomenon but about a phenomenon that needs to be managed, first of all, as i have said, in order to protect human beings. we all know that there is no easy way to stop the suffering and manage the phenomenon better. we know very well that the real solution implies, first of all, the economic development of africa and also the democratic development of africa. here our daily work is ongoing, with the compacts with the five priority countries, the external investment plan, the trust fund, and the overall work we are doing in partnership, in particular, with africa and also working – and i know commissioner mimica will be joining us for the following debates – in the framework of our cooperation and partnership with the african union and the different countries in africa, as well as with civil society and citizens in africa, because we know very well that the key to development lies not only in the economy but also in society and a civil space in which africans can find their place and their way. apart from that, we also have to focus now on what kind of quantitative and qualitative leap we can make in our joint work and the immediate steps we can take together and with our partners. so we name three proposals that will be on the table at the malta summit on friday that i believe can be fully in line with the partnership approach we have taken on the central mediterranean routes and with the african partnership from the beginning of last year and can also constitute a clear change and a clear step forward in having a more effective result. first, we want to increase training for the libyan coastguard. i am sure many of you remember a meeting we had here in this building several months ago with the cast and the director of fuocoammare, the documentary film that is now nominated for an academy award. they told us one simple thing, among many others, namely that we should do something about the libyan territorial waters because, while before we were seeing people dying close to lampedusa in international waters, we are now seeing people dying in libyan territorial waters. we cannot act inside libyan territorial waters: that is a libyan responsibility. but we can help and we can train and support the libyan authorities in this work. this will be one of the things i will discuss tomorrow with prime minister al-sarraj. it will not be the only one, but i will come to that in a minute. just a few days ago operation sophia launched the second package of training for a carefully vetted group of officials from the libyan coastguard and navy and we now propose to increase the training even more substantially, including – and this is a very important point for me – human rights, women’s rights and respect for international standards and obligations. secondly, we propose to step up our efforts on the southern borders of libya at the point before the migratory flows enter a country that is, by definition, a difficult country in which to operate. we have already started to facilitate a common approach between libya, chad and niger, in particular. managing their common border is an interest they share, inter alia for security reasons. they see us as europeans with our main focus always on the migration flows through libya towards europe – and i see a lot of attention paid to this, not in this chamber but certainly in terms of public opinion – but there is also a flow of a different kind going from libya to the south, to the sahel and possibly connecting with the lake chad region and with boko haram. there is a security challenge there too: to control the border south of libya in a more effective way. so managing this common border is in their common interest as neighbours, and it is also in our interest as europeans. we are active in the region with three missions and operations and are already training local security forces, including in respect for human rights. i stress this because, for me, this is a key component of all the training we do with local forces. these are powerful tools. we can make them even more powerful, improving cooperation among all actors in the region and taking a regional approach, including working with the african union and its newly elected leadership, as we have the new african union commission president who was the foreign minister of chad until a few days ago. thirdly, we will increase our support – at least this is my proposal – for the international organisation for migration (iom) and the unhcr. for me this is key, because you can act to the north, at sea, and to the south, in the sahel, but the presence you already have now in libya is there and will not disappear by itself. we all know very well that the human-rights angle of this is extremely serious, so we have to find a way of addressing the dramatic situation of stranded migrants inside libya in a very challenging security situation. in recent weeks i have met both filippo grandi, the un high commissioner for refugees, and william swing, the general director of the iom. together we discussed ways in which the european union can increase its support to the iom and the unhcr in order for them to work more, and better, inside libya and chiefly in the places where the migrants are. for me, cooperation with these two organisations is the best possible way to guarantee the protection of human rights for migrants inside the country. a first project, worth eur 20 million, was adopted in december under the trust fund for africa. it will allow iom to offer alternatives to the first group of 5 000 stranded migrants and take action to improve the dreadful conditions in detention centres. i believe that this will be a key element of our policy, where we will need to work as a team – the unhcr, iom and the european union, together with the libyan authorities, in trying to create the conditions for this to work. all these actions are designed with the bigger picture in mind. it is not an issue for today’s debate, but i think it is essential to keep clearly in mind that the key element of our work is supporting peace and reconciliation in libya. again, as i said, this is not an issue for this debate, but this is my main work. our work with libya goes far beyond the issue of managing migration. i know this is the top priority for political parties, governments and public opinion in europe, but believe me when i tell you that the main point for us is working on finding a political solution to the crisis in libya. i discussed this with martin kobler, the un special envoy, just a few days ago here in brussels, and again this will be the main point we will discuss tomorrow with prime minister al-sarraj here in brussels. we will also be discussing it with the foreign affairs council on monday. however, while we keep working to reach a political solution for libya, there is much we can do in the meantime – working with the libyan coastguard and navy, working with mayors and local authorities, working with libya’s neighbours – not only to the east and west but also to the south – as a libyan neighbour ourselves, because the european union is a neighbour to libya, and, with respect, trying to help and trying to focus – as i said – on a political solution that can bring stable democracy to the country, uniting it more than it is now. we will continue to work in partnership along the lines we defined together in valletta last year in partnership with our friends, not only the authorities but also civil society organisations, and in partnership with the international organisations and the un system with which we are involved. in a week’s time in malta we will have the first stocktaking exercise of the valletta summit action plan. next week i will have the pleasure of initiating it, with the maltese foreign minister, in order to see, with our african partners and the partners from the northern part of africa, where we are on the implementation of the action plan and what is the way forward in terms of partnership. i believe that, as europeans, we have finally started to play our part. we are starting to see some results. i mentioned the tens of thousands of lives which have at last been saved, but even if there was only one person dying at sea or in the desert, and whether we saw it or not, this is a responsibility and a problem that we are ready to try to solve. again, it is not just a european responsibility. it is also a responsibility we have to share with our african partners and, specifically here, our libyan partners. i hope – and i believe – that the heads of state and government in malta on friday will commit even more strongly to saving lives, both at sea and in the desert, to fighting the smugglers and to protecting the dignity of all human beings. this also means being true to our values, and that links us to the previous debate here in this chamber. (applause)
the commission is also aware of the need to ensure that the i have already given the floor to the commissioner, and i overlooked you, mrs winberg. you had signed up for the rules of procedure.
madam president, this is not a verbal message.
this is not a point of order. tell me which rule you are applying.
- i'm not sure. you have every opportunity to publish this. but the instrument of the oral procedure is there for you to come to the rules of procedure and that is all. if everyone who has put an item on the agenda always speaks, we end up somewhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the number of people crossing the mediterranean in 2016 is the highest ever. the commission has therefore given its full support to all measures which can save lives, put an end to the trafficking and improve the situation of the injured refugees in the libyan camps. what kind of perverse attitude is that of mr borghezio, to criticize the rescue of refugees from drowning because it makes them want to run away again? what kind of attitude is that? but questions remain: what is the situation with cooperation with the libyan government after the disaster we have caused there, for example with the coastguard, which is not part of the government's resources at all, but belongs to someone else? but one thing is unacceptable, namely that there is no line in this document on legal immigration, no line on combating the causes of flight, no line on thinking about dublin and its successors, no information on member states' obligations to finally pay into the funds. you can be quite sure that this council will succeed. you don't really ask him; he'll do the little bit you wrote down.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. amnesty international has reported the worst atrocities against refugees in libya, and i repeat the report by the german embassy in niger, which i have already quoted, which speaks of the most serious and systematic violations of human rights in libya. i quote verbatim: "authentic cell phone photos and videos prove the concentration camp-like conditions in the so-called private prisons". such reports confirm that there must be no return of refugees to libya. the training and equipping of the libyan coastguard also shows that member states are trying to circumvent the international ban on refoulement. but politically, it makes no difference whether we send people back to the chaos of libya ourselves or empower the country's coast guard to do so. anyone who contributes to the torture of people in libyan detention centres is partly responsible for serious human rights violations. i also find it alarming that the maltese presidency of the council has recommended that the commission reconsider its interpretation of refoulement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. six years ago, i was able to witness the celebration of the independence of south sudan in a referendum. but this independence has not brought peace, democracy, or prosperity to the people, because those in charge of the country's governance have plunged the country into civil war and brought untold suffering to the people. but at the same time, south sudan is also an example of the failure of the international community. the east african community, the african union and the united nations are unable to put an end to the death and suffering in south sudan. it is shocking that in december, at the suggestion of the united states, a proposal was put before the security council to impose an arms embargo on south sudan. this request has been rejected. only seven of the 15 council members voted in favour of a draft resolution. eight countries abstained, including the two veto powers russia and china, and the three african states angola, egypt and senegal. the resolution would have needed at least nine votes in favour to pass. it's a shame, you know. i think the only thing that will help is sanctions against those who are responsible for the deaths in south sudan.
mr president, commissioner, ali bongo has manipulated the results of the presidential elections in gabon. he is therefore not the legitimate president of this country. in frustration, he attacked the opposing camp. there were deaths and injuries. he has established a regime of suppression and fear in the country. parliament called on the european union to be ready to support the aspirations of the people, and especially the young people, in gabon for democracy, justice and freedom. we call on the european union to use all the instruments at its disposal to punish those responsible, starting with ali bongo and others in his team and government. i think that the european union must have the courage to take direct and effective measures, for example banning these officials from travelling or staying in the european union and freezing their assets. this is exactly what ali bongo's entourage fears most: no longer being able to enjoy the privileges and wealth that has come from the corruption, fraud and exploitation of the people of gabon. i am convinced that we will act and i also hope that france will not block such steps and measures.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very rich exchange and i am grateful to the honourable members for their very valuable interventions. i believe it will be an important reassurance to the people of both gabon and the democratic republic of congo that this house is following developments with such attention and cares sincerely about their destiny. from this debate, i conclude that we all share a common interest in engaging with the gabonese government in determining whether there is a genuine willingness to implement the election observation mission’s recommendations on electoral reforms and on the investigation of human rights violations. if this is not the case, we will draw the consequences. as regards the democratic republic of congo, the european union will remain vigilant and ready to use all instruments available to ensure that a transition period will end with democratic and transparent elections. finally, with the current volatile situation in both countries, let me remind you of the statements issued by the european union, stressing that all parties must refrain from violence, from incitement or provocation, or from the use of excessive force. we will continue following both countries’ situation closely in every dimension, as i am sure you will do, too. i can assure you that we will continue to use all the tools at our disposal to assist in bringing a durable solution to the current crisis. we undertake to keep you fully informed of developments.
in writing. on 19 december last year, the term of office of the president of the democratic republic of congo (drc), joseph kabila, officially ended. even before the presidential elections in late november 2016, which were deliberately delayed, and afterwards, there were some violent protests in the capital kinshasa and other cities. the unrest in the country could lead to new flows of refugees within africa and to an increase in the number of migrants in europe. the eu is therefore rightly committed to finding a diplomatic solution to this conflict. the european parliament has clearly taken a position against any use of force in this motion for a resolution on the crisis of the rule of law in the drc. gabon is in a similar situation. presidential elections were held there, with the result that president ali bongo won the election in august 2016. however, there are serious indications of electoral fraud, especially in his home province of haut-ogooué. his challenger, jean ping, received the most votes in all the other provinces. only the result from bongos home province ultimately led to his victory. in the drc and gabon, the presidents are concerned only with maintaining power. the european parliament rightly condemns the resulting violations of the rule of law and human rights and strongly calls for constitutional elections.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, defending women’s and girls’ rights has actually become even more urgent in the last week, most recently when donald trump signed an executive order to reinstate the global gag rule. this rule will not only cut funding for family planning organisations that give consultations on safe abortion but will also cut funding for very important things like hiv prevention, medical care and helping victims of female genital mutilation (fgm). now is the time for the european union to step up and say that it is going to counterbalance what is being cut by the american administration, not only financially but also organisationally, and is going to support giving consultation and all medical care to victims of female genital mutilation, because female genital mutilation is a deeply traumatising form of sexualised violence. we need to step up our efforts to fight against all forms of violence against women. i must say that i am very surprised by our colleagues on the right, who are now claiming that we never speak about fgm because actually the ratification of the istanbul convention would be a very important step to do exactly that. so once again the international day of zero tolerance for female genital mutilation should be a reminder to you commissioner, and also to all member states, to ratify the istanbul convention and take these very decisive steps not only against fgm, but against all forms of violence against women.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the law on safeguard clauses, and in particular on the accompanying measures for european banana growers, which we are discussing here today, is a good compromise, which was certainly not easy to achieve, but which ultimately avoided a trade conflict at the last minute. small farmers need protection. importers and exporters need predictability and reliability in the reality of the economic and social daily lives of all parties involved. the law is the last step in ecuador's accession process to the trade agreement with the andean countries of peru and colombia, for which i was the rapporteur. ecuador wanted to join the eu out of economic and political constraints, but also to continue its own path of sustainable development of the "buen vivis". the law that we have today is to support us in our task and duty to ensure that in the years to come the agreement is beneficial to the well-being of our people, on the part of both parties. i hope that this time my negative fears and those of my group will not be confirmed and that we will take a step forward with this agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank commissioner vella and mrs engström for their commitment, particularly in relation to the regulation on the authorization of fishing activities by european union fishing vessels outside union waters, but the regulation also applies to third country fishing vessels fishing in union waters. we must therefore consider, and i think it is very sensible, that a register of fishing authorizations be set up here and that the external fleet be monitored and that the authorization to operate in the fishing areas concerned be obtained. i would simply like to refer again to the partnership agreements with third countries, which we have discussed intensively here in parliament and in the committee on fisheries. whether it is the seychelles, madagascar, mauritania, greenland or west africa, we have discussed all of these together. it is therefore only reasonable and sensible that the basic regulation which applies to us in union waters should also apply to operational work outside, in third countries where we have fishing licences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but because it is constantly debated that europe is working with a huge fleet on the world's oceans and destroying the stocks there: china and indonesia and india together have more than 50% of the wild catch and aquaculture, mr president! i just wanted to say that again very briefly. europe is in fourth place with 4.5% and that is why it is very important that we bring european fisheries policy closer to the other people who work there and fight illegal fishing.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have just celebrated the 30th anniversary of erasmus. we have reached over ten million people, especially young people. so it is clear: it is a real european success story. the budget has increased by 40% over this planning period, but it is clear that this is not enough. but i want to focus on what needs to be changed to make the erasmus programme better: small school projects should be given more support, the importance of formal and informal learning should be recognised and, in particular, the importance of informal learning should be strengthened. we must take more account of disadvantaged young people and increase the internal allocation of funds for young people in the field of sport. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. i would like to make three additional points: the european solidarity corps is a good thing in principle - i support it too - but it should not be paid from erasmus + funds, but the funds that are now available for it should be used for the priorities of erasmus +. the same applies to the idea of the interrail ticket: it is also a good thing if young people have the opportunity to travel on it, but it must not be financed from the erasmus programme. and then there is the idea - and i am very much prepared to think about the need for a new security policy in europe, especially with regard to trump's policy - that erasmus should not be the first use of funds for possible military cooperation. so let us concentrate on the real tasks, on continuing to build up the funds for an erasmus for which we have fought so hard, and if there are additional good policy areas, then fresh money must be found for this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is my first speech in the house, which is a particularly great honour for me. i am delighted to be able to give this speech on the erasmus+ programme. as a young person, i know many union citizens who benefit from this. the programme makes an invaluable contribution to the cohesion of the european union, particularly by opening up vocational training. the report underlines the enormous importance of erasmus+. erasmus makes an important contribution to vocational training, particularly in border regions. we should further strengthen the programme in this area and also make it possible for trainees who return to their home countries during the week to receive funding and support. this is true, for example, in the field of care. promoting europe's youth is an important contribution to the future of the european union and will help us to continue to grow together. that's why this program is so important.
in writing. we have just celebrated the 30th anniversary of the erasmus programme. the erasmus programme is unlike any other initiative for the coming together of the young european generation. we've reached over 10 million young people through this program. this makes it the most successful european education programme. i'm sure we'll be able to reach even more young people in the future. but the latest news that erasmus+ funds are to be spent on the free interrail idea is aimed in the wrong direction. erasmus+ is distinguished by its pursuit of sustainable education and training objectives. the interrail idea is not at all suited to appealing to young people from socially disadvantaged families in particular and to offering them prospects for a good education. i therefore ask you to invest eu funds more effectively in extending the existing erasmus+ programmes.
in writing. i am in favour of a common european sport policy. sport is more than a hobby or a competitive sport. sport is a means of integrating people across cultural, ethnic, social and national boundaries. i therefore welcome transnational sporting events and initiatives that enable refugees, migrants and asylum seekers to participate actively in sporting competitions. the report also calls for a zero-tolerance policy against corruption in sport. in this context, i support the call for more accountability and transparency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what was the decision in romania? firstly, in future, the abuse of office will not be punishable by imprisonment up to a maximum of eur 45 000. rather, the amount must be repaid, and a fine is also due. it is criticised that the investigation requires a complainant first. second, there is a reprieve for minor offenses, for the seriously ill and mothers with small children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions in the romanian prisons are met. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. and i'm sure there's some debate about why an expedited procedure was decided. i am very grateful that this process, at the request of the social democrats, is not being discussed today in passing, but that critical issues can be followed up in the committee responsible and in the context of a so-called mission. (the speaker declined to answer a question from mr rübig under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the visa liberalisation measures in georgia. there you go. the fact that the georgian people are still waiting for this visa liberalisation is partly due to the member states, which then linked this visa facilitation to a so-called suspension mechanism. thanks to the tenacity and willingness to compromise of the european parliament and in particular our rapporteur, we have now been able to adopt this mechanism under clear conditions and against the will of the council, including a mechanism of democratic control by this house. georgia has waited long enough for the hard-won visa relief. it is time to put this freedom of movement into effect.
madam president, we wish to express the fact that a political dialogue has been organised by ali bongo but it has not happened yet. so the new version should read ‘the intended political dialogue’. that is the change, because it has not happened yet.
madam president, this is another adaptation to the current situation. we say that ‘certain members of the opposition have not signed the agreement’ with mr kabila for the next elections, but in the meantime they have signed the agreement. so we have to delete this part.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am very pleased to have this opportunity to discuss with you today the topic of biological low-risk pesticides. let me start by stating that biological pesticides are fundamental innovations that may provide our farmers with sustainable options to protect their crops and preserve biodiversity. for that reason, we in the commission, like you in parliament, all support this excellent objective. as you know, the regulation for placing plant protection products on the market requires a rigorous risk assessment of all plant protection products, and those of a biological nature are included in this assessment. of course, assessing plant protection products means that biological substances are not automatically considered to be low risk. indeed, micro-organisms and other natural substances can also be a danger to human health, so we need to look carefully at their properties and properly assess their risks in order to ascertain their safety. to obtain the strict status of a low-risk product, biological substances must meet additional specific low-risk criteria. the regulation provides for specific criteria and requirements for micro-organisms. it contains incentives to facilitate the placing on the market of low-risk products. the extent to which these incentives are sufficient will be assessed in the evaluation of the regulation, which, as you may know, we have started under the refit programme. the lack of availability of low-risk products depends on various stakeholders, from farmers to national authorities. member states, in particular, have the responsibility of managing the sustainable use of pesticides and promoting greater use of low-risk pesticides and of all tools enabling the move towards greener agriculture. they should create better conditions for this to happen, and in particular they should launch awareness campaigns. as for the commission, we share the view that it is important to take action to increase availability of low-risk products and to expand the toolbox for farmers with more sustainable options to protect their crops. to do this, we have assumed our own responsibility and we are currently working on three actions. the first is the funding of research and innovation in plant protection. over the years, more than eur 100 million has been invested in this area, and the commission will continue to commit funding to the pursuit of sustainable solutions under the future research programme. the second concerns two regulatory acts. one is a commission decision issued last september which prioritises the assessment of potentially low-risk substances for the renewal of their approval. when substances meet the criteria they will benefit from the relevant incentives in the regulation. the other is an amendment of the system for identifying low-risk substances. it will facilitate the identification of low-risk substances while fully safeguarding the high level of protection of health and the environment set in the eu regulation. i expect this amendment to be presented to the member states for vote in march and then passed to the council and parliament for scrutiny. the third area of action concerns the follow-up to the implementation of current measures. in 2016 the commission supported the initiative of the netherlands council presidency to draft an implementation plan to identify key stakeholders with a view to increasing the availability of low-risk plant protection products. this plan was endorsed in the council last june. it contains 40 actions for member states, the commission and stakeholders. given that the authorisation of low-risk products is the responsibility of member states, it is important that they play their part. the commission is committed to working together with the member states to implement the plan. since the question which triggered this debate raises the issue of efficacy, let me highlight one of the actions identified in the implementation plan. the european and mediterranean plant protection organisation is working on a standard for assessing the efficacy of low-risk products. it aims to guide member states on how to take account, in the efficacy evaluation, of specific benefits of low-risk products. the commission encourages the creation of this standard and its implementation by member states. to conclude, i am confident that the range of actions taken by the commission will help to secure more sustainable alternatives for european farmers.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking on behalf of my colleague, mr herbert dorfmann, who unfortunately cannot be here at the moment. we are not here to depreciate conventional plant protection products, but to support the availability of alternative plant protection products of biological origin. low-risk plant protection products of biological origin can provide a viable alternative to both conventional and organic farming. the problem is that there are lengthy approval and authorisation procedures that must be followed before low-risk pesticides of biological origin can be marketed. and this poses a significant economic risk to the producers, who are often small and medium-sized enterprises and not chemical giants. the current authorisation procedures for low-risk plant protection products of biological origin are lengthy and take up to 10 years. we therefore call for a specific legislative proposal to improve this situation within 2018.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have had a very controversial debate here in the house a while ago on the pesticide glyphosate, and i think we have reached a good compromise. i hope that the member states will be able to take a decision on this basis in the second round. anyone who is seriously concerned with this issue knows that we are facing a dilemma. we cannot exclude adverse effects on man and the environment, especially if plant protection products are not used properly. but on the other hand, it is of course an illusion, especially in the short term, to convert all of europe to organic farming. and that's why we need alternatives. we need research and development, we need licensing procedures that are appropriate. i believe that we can accelerate this process without questioning the effectiveness of these new alternatives. that is why, on behalf of the european people's party, i support this resolution and ask the commissioner and his team to work actively to get these alternatives on the market as soon as possible - as an alternative for farmers, but also for the benefit of consumers. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i don't see it that way. we should not underestimate the possibilities and the innovative power of farmers. farmers, even if they are a little older, are able to adapt to new technologies and deal with them. i think we're doing something for agriculture, we're taking agriculture out of the corner when we have not just conventional pesticides, but alternatives. as mr linz has said, this is an alternative to organic farming, but also to conventional farming. and i don't think the farmers will have a problem with that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am glad that we are having this important debate on plant protection products and i hope that this house will vote in favour of the resolution on wednesday. we have a problem: we want food to be safe, affordable and sustainable, while using as little land as possible. at the same time, farmers have less and less plant protection products available. we must not leave farmers in the lurch and it is urgent that they have a wide range of resources at their disposal. only then can agriculture meet all the requirements. the proposal to simplify the authorization of low-risk plant protection products is a step in the right direction. i am not happy with the debate, though. there is a constant attempt to present the biological as good and the synthetic as bad. neither of which is true. the dose is what makes the poison, and responsible use is what determines food safety and sustainability. i would like to focus less on ideologies, so that there is more room for the voices of practitioners and science. it's more direct.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 15 february 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bogdan brunon wenta and mr norbert neuser, on behalf of the committee on development, on the revision of the european consensus on development policy (2016/2094 (ini)) (a8-0020/2017).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, bogdan wenta and i worked very well together. this was also the basis for us being able to present a good text with many compromises. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, charles goerens, maria and lola, for their many good initiatives and critical remarks, because together with their support we were able to incorporate into the consensus a lot of what the ngos had presented to us. the development policy is becoming more and more important, as we have always known in the committee. but now, with the refugee movements, it is also becoming a central issue. so it's good that we're working on consensus now. it will be a manifesto. but it has to be more than just a manifesto. it must also include objectives and implementation. we in the committee want to know clearly how the objectives are being tackled by the commission in the roadmap and how the member states can be forced into financing. to do this, we need a clear commitment to monitoring and evaluating implementation. we have a good presidency of the council with malta. malta is particularly well placed to intervene on the refugee question, based on the experience it has gained. we work well with the commission and the council. perhaps we will be able to adopt our paper, our consensus, at the end of june, during the european development days. new - and this is why it's important that we have the consensus - are the global sustainability goals that need to be incorporated. it must also be clear that the fight against poverty remains a priority in development policy, and that human dignity must be at the centre of this. we must try to respond to the new demands: refugees, climate change and also the eu's general values, which distinguish us from other donors such as china or the usa. we should be proud to be developing cooperation along our value catalogue. we are concerned that a number of new financial instruments which call for flexibility do not take parliament's rights into account. we have the impression that increased flexibility reduces our possibilities as parliamentarians. i can only say to the council and to the commission that we in the committee are also creative and flexible. do not be afraid of what we bring as parliamentarians. we are close to the ngos and we are also interested in making sure that we are contributing to good results in a targeted way. we must see how the african trust fund and the european fund for sustainable development can be integrated and how we can organise the measures to involve the private sector more and also attract investment. that is why we as parliamentarians want to be involved in the decision-making bodies. we want at least observer status. i would like to emphasize once again what i have already said: we have a lot of knowhow and it would be good if we could share it. i believe that we in parliament will adopt this paper tomorrow by a large majority. we did our homework. i think we can be satisfied overall. let us wait and see what the results are with the commission and the council.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank in advance the co-rapporteurs bogdan brunon wenta and norbert neuser for their open and good cooperation. the european union is in the process of reorientating its policy, its development policy. and if the commission and the member states are to be believed, development policy should in future be at the service of migration and security policy, because since the migration crisis only our interior ministers are in charge of europe's foreign policy. funds are being taken from the poorest of the poor and are now to be used for military and border controls. parliament cannot simply stand by and watch this and this report sends a very clear signal. the aim of development policy must remain the reduction of poverty. for borders, for security, for the military, there are other instruments and other budgetary pots. if we keep shifting more and more funds and adding new priorities, what will be left in the future for long-term projects, what will be left for education, how much for agriculture? i'm afraid not much. the report by norbert neuser and bogdan wenta also emphasizes this point: the principle of policy coherence for development must continue to apply, as set out in the lisbon treaty. and why do we as a parliament insist on this when it is in the treaty of lisbon? we emphasize this because the institutions, and above all the eac, led by the high representative, federica mogherini, want to undermine and reverse the concept of policy coherence. but we will not agree to that. we greens can only agree if poverty reduction is... (the president cut the speaker off)
you have rightly recognized that no one here gets more time, regardless of sympathy or political agreement.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i think the debate has shown that we are on the right track here. the 2005 consensus had to be revised because of many problems that have arisen in the meantime: refugees and climate change. i would like to stress once again that the question of financing development cooperation is very important. that was made clear again in the debate. we want to have the evaluation and implementation by the commission and the member states, so that we know at what point in time how much money is being spent on development cooperation. we have the great advantage that the majority of europeans fully support increased development cooperation. eurostat is very clear that the people in europe want us to raise more money to solve the misery and problems in the countries of africa - above all in sub-saharan africa - and there too. another aspect was the extent to which we might be able to transfer funds from the development sector to other sectors. we 'll stick to it . the fight against poverty must be a priority. for example, when it comes to border security in countries such as chad, mali, cameroon, niger, nigeria against extremist groups, against boko haram, i do not think anyone in parliament has any objection to it. but we have a problem with money being taken out of our pot. the commission must get its hands on more money. and one last thing about what the enf representative said. i think it is a shame to campaign here in the netherlands on the backs of those who suffer from hunger, disease and misery. this is something that does not belong in parliament and we must reject it in the strongest possible terms.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 february 2017.
the next item is the debate on the report by ian duncan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the cost-effectiveness of emission reduction measures and investment in carbon-efficient technologies (a8-0003/2017).
thank you very much, mr. duncan. i speak for the whole house when i offer you my most cordial congratulations on your birthday. the presidency cannot make promises of gifts in the form of motions for resolutions.
we have noticed up here that you cannot see the time while you are speaking. the technical services are trying to change this. after two-and-a-half minutes, i will just hammer and you will hear that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if the ets works properly, it is a powerful tool to trigger investment in climate-friendly technologies. we're helping the climate and jobs. that is why we must strengthen the ets, we must raise prices. but we also need to make it clear that the top 10% of companies that have invested are safe and not burdened by the ets. the report does both in principle. but we have a big exception for cement and some other products, and that's giving us a stomach ache. that is why we are calling for a change at this point. the mechanisms that have been proposed and that are now supported by some colleagues are on solid footing. we don't know if we can override them. at the same time, we do not know whether we are not going too far with a border tax adjustment so narrowly tailored to cement alone, based on a delegated act. if we do that, then maybe we should save that for the case that other nations, like the united states, are going to drop out of climate action altogether. but it is still immature, and i would urge the house to support amendment no 144. the committee on industry also supported the proposal of the social democrats and the liberals. so he seems to be quite reasonable. if we get a vote tomorrow, there will be a large majority in favour of the report and then we can all be satisfied.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ian duncan, for his efforts. happy birthday to you, ian. i would also like to thank the itre rapporteur, mr federley, for his work. the council must make sure that industry is not forced to save 2.2% a year instead of the 2.4% a year the commission has proposed. we have just heard it again, it is the same members who are complaining here about deindustrialisation and then using environmental regulations to move industry to other regions. it is always the same members who complain about unemployment in europe and then contribute to the disappearance of jobs by making energy costs too high. but that's not all, ladies and gentlemen. it is often the same colleagues who are loudly advocating for a reduction in co2 emissions in the eu and then quietly increasing global co2 emissions. because with the globalisation of the economy on the one hand, we cannot ignore the globalisation of the climate problem on the other. already today, cement, aluminium, ceramics, steel and chemical products are produced in europe under much more environmentally friendly conditions than anywhere else in the world. if we force the production of such products abroad through a costly emissions trading system, we are not only harming european industry and european jobs, but we are also harming the global climate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. sometimes ambition alone is not enough. you have to find sensible solutions. and i think that's what the project has done quite well. it is a huge achievement that we have the power from parliament to change the 5% in the free allocation. it's not gonna be easy in the council. but this is a debate that is worthwhile and that is being carried out sensibly. it is not wise to introduce a new instrument at one point, which has not been tested and whose effectiveness is uncertain, and thus to hit an industry which is producing super figures, at least in europe. it is not wise to punish someone who is producing really good co2 figures, like the cement sector, even now to sanction. i would therefore ask that the matter be corrected once again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to wish ian duncan a happy birthday and thank him and all the colleagues who have worked so hard on this dossier. i am saying yes to climate action, but i am also saying yes to preserving our jobs in the european union. because it is not good for the climate to move our jobs abroad. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies. these border adjustment measures would hit certain sectors particularly hard, including the cement, brick and lime industries. these works are in danger of losing their free distribution. why should we punish these industries, these factories, and thus endanger our jobs? i myself have a cement plant or plants in my constituency, as do many other colleagues. every year, i visit these plants and i've seen the investment that's been made in energy efficiency, process optimization and carbon reduction. so please, let us make sure that these industries do not migrate.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the house very much for inviting me here today and i would especially like to thank mr szanyi for his draft report. i think it sums up very well why competition matters. as it says, competition policy is the cornerstone of the single market. it should make it work. state-aid rules give every company a fair chance to compete, and anti-trust and merger rules make sure that the markets serve the public, not just big companies. last year we found that four truck companies, well actually five truck makers, which together sold nine out of every ten medium and heavy trucks in europe, had colluded for 14 years to raise gross list prices and delay the launch of green technology. this sort of cartel can make a lot of money for the companies involved. it is their customers who pay the price. so it takes firm action to make sure that companies have nothing to gain by breaking the rules. that is why we fined those five companies, five businesses, nearly eur 3 billion, the largest cartel fine in the commission’s history. meanwhile, our case is continuing against a sixth company that would not settle. but enforcing these rules throughout europe has to be a team effort, involve national competition authorities as well as the commission and that can only be effective if everyone has the powers that they need. so i fully agree with your recommendation that we should propose eu legislation to make sure that they have the right powers. we have had the same message from our consultations and our impact assessment. so we are now working on a proposal that i hope to be able to present before summer and i firmly expect that we can fully involve parliament. as well as anti-trust cases we deal with mergers that are reshaping global industries, like the one that will now reduce the six biggest producers of seeds and pesticides to just three. these transactions can affect each and every one of us because seeds and pesticides, crop protection, they are the beginning of the food chain. it is important that this sector continues to develop new products that correspond to the regulatory requirements in europe and that they will sell these products at competitive prices. it is important for farmers, for the consumer and obviously for the environment. that is why my services are looking into these mergers in great detail. each of them will be assessed on their own merits and will only be allowed to proceed if they do not impose any impediment to effective competition. when it comes to state aids our cases on tax rulings show that no company, however big and powerful, can avoid paying its fair share of taxes. i fully share the approach in your draft report. we have taken four final decisions, so far, that deal with illegal state aid through tax rulings. of course, these decisions are based on the evidence and the rule of law. and we have taken forward more cases involving amazon, mcdonald’s and engie in exactly the same spirit. at the same time we will continue our investigation into tax rulings in every member state. and we are always ready to work with member states to make sure that state aid does not come up in the future. it is good to see that luxembourg has brought in much stricter rules on the taxation of financing companies. we were happy to discuss that with the national authorities and we are happy to do that with anyone that wants to. when it comes to banks our state-aid rules are there to support troubled banks when it comes to the same terms throughout europe. we apply the same rules, in the same way, to every bank, in every member state. now european banks are far more stable than they were a decade ago. but in spite of the improvements some banks in europe are still struggling to deal with non-performing loans from defaulting borrowers and the commission is working with those member states and banks where non-performing loans remain to help banks gradually reduce them. european banks need to put the legacy of the crisis firmly behind them. last but not least, renewable energy is important – just thinking about the debate you have just had. competition can help us bring down the cost of our transition. since the start of this year all new support for large renewable plants has had to be given through a tender. pilot tenders have already shown how much we could save. in germany tenders have brought down the price of supporting solar energy by 25% in the last year and a half. meanwhile the sector inquiry report on capacity mechanism, which we published in november, will help member states to keep down costs on making sure that there is electricity when demand needs it. if the costs of funding renewable energy would make an energy intensive sector like the steel sector uncompetitive, well, state-aid rules do not stop a member state compensating that part of the cost, because the competition rules are here to support european competitiveness, not to undermine it. an open single market with fair competition, well, that helped to cut the cost of input and it helped businesses to grow big enough to compete throughout the world and this is what we want to see and to do. and through our free trade agreements, including the agreement with canada, we are encouraging countries around the world to reduce subsidies and to use subsidies more responsibly because competition works. this is the message of our enforcement work and i think it is also the message of your report. i welcome it and i am very happy for the support. because the commission will keep working to enforce the competition rules, taking forward the three google cases and continuing to work on the case against gazprom so consumers and businesses do not pay inflated prices for gas. we will use all our powers to make sure that the single market remains open and fair and in that, of course, we need to work together. thank you very much for your draft report.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur and our shadow rapporteur, fulvio martusciello, as is customary here. i shall not be able to mention again in a minute all the subjects which have been very well and in a consensual manner covered in the report. i think that in all the good work that the commission is doing, there is simply a very big difference in the fact that on the one hand we have the cases in the very classic analogue internal market where the work can be carried out successfully in the very classic way as always, but that we simply, and you, commissioner, have to deal with the question of what we can do in markets that are simply developing so rapidly that the decisions, when they are taken years later, can no longer recover what has been created in terms of distortion of competition, in terms of unduly created distortion of competition. this is a difficult question and when it comes to the budgetary procedure in the european parliament we are constantly thinking about whether we do not need more staff in the competition dg. i think that question is being asked again today. secondly, madam commissioner, i would like to draw your attention once again to a problem in the competition report concerning tourism, where we simply have state authorities financed from public funds, but where there are difficulties with the aid regime. i'd appreciate it if you'd give me a test.
madam president, there are people, amongst other places in the oval office, who want us to get tired, who want us to shut up and who want us to stop repeating the claim ‘our bodies – our rights’. well, here is to these people: we will not shut up, we will not get tired and we will not stop defending women's rights because they are fundamental rights. and the more that these people put pressure on us, the more we will unite not only here in this parliament, but in the streets all over the world. and we will not only unite. we will demand concrete actions from our governments. they have to take responsibility. and that is why i demand that european governments join the initiative by the dutch, the danish, the belgian and the swedish governments in order to counter the impact of the global gag rule, because we will not get tired, we have only just begun.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the citizens expect solutions from europe and are therefore angry with europe because these solutions are not being presented. at the same time, member states, which are reinforcing this debate, are denying europe the instruments it needs to solve its problems, knowing full well that many of them can only be solved by working together. the statements made by trump and others that they want to divide europe in order to discuss the individual parts are wrong. europe is more than the sum of its member states when it comes to our influence in the world. and that's why we have to make it clear to the challenges we face, from migration to the consequences of globalisation to internal and external security, terrorism and issues like that, that europe has to deliver here. the lisbon treaty offers a wide range of possibilities that are far from being exploited. that is to say, the member states have no alibi to prevent it from being done, but they must allow the treaty of lisbon to be used at last. i want that to be clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is intolerable that the council of ministers should agree not to use the treaty. i think it is contrary to the treaty to agree on unanimity when majority voting is provided for in the council and that if there is no consensus, something is then sent to the european council, which can only decide unanimously. this is a breach of the treaty in the council and the council of ministers, and we should see it clearly. and we must also make it clear that the community method of qualified majority voting is, as a rule, the method of efficiency, transparency and citizen participation. i think the issue of transparency is also important. we therefore want to make it clear in legislation, simply by amending the council's statutes, the council of ministers: there is only one council of ministers, as the treaty says, which must meet in public, so that each government has to justify how it voted in a legislative proposal, so that it can no longer explain at home that it was not there. and the councils of ministers are then the committees, as in a reasonable second chamber. the only way to do this is to change the council's statute. we don't need a contract amendment for that. we should not allow the european union to be divided either. i am in favour of different speeds, but within the framework of the treaty of enhanced cooperation, permanent structured cooperation in foreign, security and defence policy. but please do not create new institutions! we want the single community institutions to be responsible for everything, not to create new administrations in the eurogroup. i am against a division between euro countries and non-euro countries, or rather: non-euro countries. i believe that we should preserve this unity with all the differences that exist. the following points are now clear on migration in trade policy: we can finally put the border controls we have been calling for for a long time into effect in the area of migration. we want a common right of asylum to settle this matter in a reasonable way. we want to try to ensure that the intelligence services of our member states cooperate properly in the fight against terrorism, and that is through european institutions, so that citizens are finally protected from terrorism and no jurisdictional problems in these matters prevent us from doing so. we want the completion of economic and monetary union to be based on the principles of solidarity, growth, competitiveness and conditionality. we want to make progress on foreign and security policy. we must see that we are wasting money and are weak, in the face of the 200 billion euros our member states spend on defence without result. i am also of the opinion that mr verhofstadt has already said that we are patriots and we stand up for our nations. the nations will long play a major role as bearers of identity and culture. but we do not have a nation or europe, we have a nation and europe. that's the difference. the right-wing extremists in this house will not take away the faith of europeans in our own nations. we will not let the right-wingers take our nation. that's politics of the past.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the world in which we live today is a mess and full of uncertainties. for the first time in the united states, we have a president with donald trump, who is characterized by nationalism and protectionism and who proposes to the countries of the eu to withdraw from this union. in moscow, vladimir putin is threatening the peaceful order of the continent, putting pressure on the neighbouring countries and supporting the anti-europeans in our member states through all channels. the situation for the european union is a fire hazard. the great project of european integration, which is based on peace and freedom, is under pressure from outside as never before. in addition, there is the terrible populism and nationalism within the european union. the wilders, the le pens, the farages, they're playing the game of putin and trump. these neo-modern populists, who claim to represent the people, are dividing the peoples of europe and threatening a good future for this continent and its people. let me be clear: they are a threat to our future, they are not the future. we must make that clear to them. the eu's member states - including the big ones - should not be seen as being strong enough to stand up to the big powers such as china, the united states or russia. europe can only defend and assert its values and interests in this world of the 21st century if it acts together. the overly simple slogans of the europe-haters are a lie, they are a deception of the people, and we must oppose them. the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome must therefore send a clear message to the citizens. we can solve the big problems together, but alone and divided we are weak and have nothing to report. it is precisely this message that is the basis of the reports we are debating today and voting on thursday. we, the house of commons in the european union, are for a better europe. we are in favour of a europe which is capable of action. a europe that operates in the greatest transparency and with democratic participation. europe must not be a pawn of the great powers, but must shape globalisation itself and confidently represent the interests of its citizens. there is no doubt that the european union has not been a good example in recent years. whether in the financial or economic crisis or in the migration flows, the eu has acted too slowly and too inadequately, and this has caused frustration among the public and the population. there has been no shortage of proposals from the commission and parliament. it was the selfishness of individual member states that prevented a solution based on solidarity. the eu must finally stop enjoying the benefits of the eu but not wanting to spread the burdens to everyone. this has got to stop. we need a new basic consensus on what the eu must do in the next few years, what means and instruments we give it. the eu has added value in all the big issues where the nation state can no longer act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we need eu funding of our own to put an end to the net-payer debate. we need a tool to defend our fundamental values when the freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary or the fight against corruption are threatened. the existing treaty offers many opportunities, but we also need new elements to meet these challenges. we want a great debate on the future and, in the end, a convention to decide on the new basic rules. it is now, after brexit and before the european elections, that this debate must begin. i hope that this house will adopt these two reports on thursday. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today, my colleague berès and i are presenting a report on budgetary capacity for the euro area, a roadmap for a successful stabilisation of the euro and the deepening of the european union. it is not about creating a mushroom cloud between euro countries and non-euro countries, but about stabilising the euro by regaining confidence within the eurozone, making sure that we are more credible, that we are stabilising the euro, and that we are also gaining more credibility internationally by moving forward than we have gained in recent years. but, of course, the fundamental point of this debate is that we, as the european parliament, are sending outward signals that we are aware that today the whole issue is the viability and self-assertion of the european union, its citizens and its states. many in the member states say: 'oh my god, times are so difficult and complicated, we cannot do much together. i would like to ask the opposite question: how much time do we have left to face the international challenges and finally to act and strengthen the european union? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we live in a global village, and some people in the union believe that by building walls we can solve the problem. no, it just blocks your own view and your own thinking. we are surrounded by autocrats and autocratic regimes and in many places democracy, the rule of law and humanism are in decline. but let 's not kid ourselves: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but i say to the commission, mr vice-president, that we must put an end to the madness of detail which we are suffering from, both in the commission's departments and - i am now using this term deliberately - in the national bureaucracies. this is not always the framework legislation of the european union. it is the delegated acts and the implementing acts that cause the difficulties on the ground, because there the member states, with their national ministries, write in a lot of nonsense, away from the control of the national parliaments, which makes it difficult for us to be credible. the report on the fiscal capacity of the euro area: i know there are different views in this house and we are asking our colleagues to do something with this report. but yesterday's vote in the joint meeting of the econ and budget committees has shown that we will hopefully have a solid majority for this approach on thursday. it's about making an offer. it's about getting away from a patchwork that we've seen repeatedly in the past when a crisis has come upon us. after the crisis is before the crisis. that is why the idea of developing a complementary fiscal capacity, for the eurozone, but equally open to non-euro countries, with clear guidelines as to the conditions, the conditionality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that this is a fair and reasonable approach which can be a reasonable complement to the instruments we have today. this of course includes the further development of the esm towards a european monetary fund. the rapporteurs of the various reports also agree on the future governance structure. i would also like to say that without the support of the national parliaments, this will not succeed. they will also have to play their part there, so that we can jointly counteract the de-parliamentarisation of this area of economic, budgetary and financial policy at both levels. i would like to thank my co-rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of the groups which have drawn up this report. it was an exciting, difficult debate. but in the end we will be able to reap a good harvest on thursday and send a good, positive signal to the citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the euro crisis is back, and it was never really over for millions of workers in their wallets. interest rates for southern europe are rising again. germany, the world's fourth largest economy, has export surpluses now equal to 9% of its economic strength. this is happening on the backs of the workers in germany. but despite the zero interest rate, mr. schäuble doesn't want to invest anymore. that's crazy, because if i keep selling more than i'm buying from abroad, someone else has to go into debt. that is why the stability and growth pact is also a good thing, because the euro crisis was not a sovereign debt crisis. in spain or ireland, it was private debt that exploded in the crisis. germany is also in breach of eu rules. but the eu is now speaking german. unfortunately, fiscal capacity threatens to deepen this policy, because it is intended to encourage more structural reforms - i.e. wage and pension cuts - which will dampen demand and destroy jobs. if you're good, you'll get some pocket money from brussels. this can't work. we need public investment and sanctions against chronic export surpluses. to keep making the same mistakes over and over again, but expecting a different result, albert einstein called it madness. this madness could break the euro. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. of course, i believe that we have to address the problems of the vast majority of the population in the european union. but you cannot do that if you have a completely wrong analysis of the crisis. and further structural reforms - wage and pension cuts - will further divide the european union and destroy the confidence of a large majority of the population. i do not believe that the correct response to mr donald trump or brexit is to deepen a defence union, to fight more wars in the middle east that have created terror, flight and state disintegration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. firstly, it is right that this parliament, in its large majority, should make it clear today that we are in favour of a more capable of acting, a more deeply integrated, but also a more democratic and social union, one which is open to innovation and which responds to the crises in the world not by isolation, not by retreating to the national, but by more integration. this is correct in principle, because only those who are committed to the success of the european union as a whole can work to improve this integration and to improve this project. that is why it is necessary to say that we want this europe when we are faced with the choice of destroying it or not. at the same time, of course, we must not turn a blind eye to the great problems we face. that is why it is so important that we send a clear signal to the member states before the big party in rome to mark the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome. waving champagne glasses and making speeches isn't enough. the citizens now expect change, and they rightly expect change towards more transparency, integrity, accountability. it is no different in romania when people demonstrate for days on end to take to the streets against corruption. and it is all the more embarrassing when there is not the same unity in this house. i therefore ask you, mr timmermans, to support citizens who are taking to the streets in this situation, for example against the violation of european values, such as in the case of corruption, and to publish a ranking of the member states in the area of the rule of law and the violation of principles, of corruption. in other words, it must be about changing europe in this situation with strong rules, with strong proposals, not about making it worse than it is. and i am sure that there is still a majority in the population for this, if we fight for it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – different, and being different and protecting our individuality, which is at the centre of human rights and european ideas of humanity. defending that needs a stronger european union at this moment. only by defending our values together in a globalising world do we have a chance of keeping our diversity and the key idea of individualism. small nation-states will not be able to defend european ways of life; this plurality based on individualism and human rights in this space in the world can only be defended together. no small island will be able to do that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is in a sad state at the moment, because it has distanced itself from its citizens. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. that's what i call a simple and poignant denial of reality. i believe that further centralisation of the eu is an elite project. but the citizens want a lean eu, one which produces as few regulations as possible and which is economical with money. instead, we have here, for example, a report by mr böge and mr berès calling for an additional budget for the eurozone - with billions of contributions. money that would ultimately be used to set up a transfer union. this can't be the solution to our problems. instead of actually tackling the problems, and a core problem of the eu is the eurozone not the euro as such, but the composition of the eurozone. the eurozone is not filled with countries that simply don't fit together because of economic performance. doctoring around on symptoms isn't gonna get us anywhere. instead, we must tackle the problems at their root. we must therefore finally free countries which are suffering from fiscal constraints - such as greece - from these constraints, and we must be able to let the greeks follow the example. the euro will divide the eu. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i thank you for these questions, madam president. i disagree with you on that, frankly. and you're suggesting that i said that the public doesn't want regulation. i'm not saying that. the citizens want regulation, but only in the important areas. the eu should act where it can add value to the actions of individual states. there are many areas where the eu can do good, for example in the common internal market, and also in environmental matters. but that is not true of all areas of policy. we do not need to centralize everything in brussels and then find that we are not able to manage everything in one place. this is not a new discovery. that is why we need a lean eu. i am in favour of the eu, but a leaner eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is our main task to ensure and defend the future viability of the european union. many policy areas are currently affected. all of them can make a positive contribution to the future viability of the european union, including, of course, economic and monetary policy in particular. we should formulate a credible and honest plan for the future. this means that we must not forget our present-day homework, especially when it comes to economic policy. this includes respecting and implementing the rules of our economic cooperation and our common currency. the key to a sustainable economic policy, in my view, lies in the economic and community approach of helmut kohl and françois mitterand, which was then embodied in the stability and growth pact. i think it is important that we set ourselves achievable targets, that we respect the possibilities and limits of the european treaties, and that we show our citizens that we are managing budgetary resources well and sensibly and that we are committing the member states to budgetary efficiency before we ask for new money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. economic policy decisions and the fiscal consequences of these cannot be viewed in isolation; national responsibilities must be emphasised and european control strengthened. in conclusion, we should focus on a common economic policy. political divisions between euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries would not be in our interest, especially at a time when we are particularly called upon to stand together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with you, ladies and gentlemen, that the eu is at a crossroads. in your assessment, rapporteur you assume that the eu is the solution to the problems it faces. their answer is simple: only in a more integrated way. the increase in integration, which you derive mainly from external threats, will in future be enforced in the committees only by majority decisions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. you want the sovereign to be formally involved in politics, but his day-to-day interests simply do not appear in your report. and you don't want to let the street dictate anything. i can see the dividing line here. we also see the policies of the eu and its 28 member states as a source of problems. without finally guaranteeing a convincing, community-led and contractually guaranteed increase in social europe, the process of disintegration of the eu will be difficult to stop, and certainly not under the false slogans of right-wing populist forces.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a really important debate about the future of our european union. you can see here: it is not a sterile debate about more or less europe, but a debate about what we have this union for: for freedom, which is why we must defend it against member states where freedom is threatened - i am thinking of poland and hungary. for prosperity, i think that tomorrow we will hopefully agree a good trade agreement with our friends in canada. for security, this is the area where citizens expect us to do the most and where there is still much to be done. europol must work with national police authorities as a kind of european fbi to help fight terrorists, organised crime and gangs. we need a genuine european border guard, able to act on its own assessment of the situation, not what the governments have agreed. and we need the european union for our security. we need a common security and defence policy that is worthy of the name.
mr president, when we created our common currency 25 years ago with the treaty of maastricht, we created something like a shiny new car, rather fast and comfortable. we knew full well that it lacked certain traditional safety features, such as a crumple zone in the form of exchange rates, but we just hoped that the driving instructions which came with the car – especially the stability and growth pact – would induce everybody to drive safely, especially after a driving test based on the so-called convergence criteria. so we were happily speeding along for a decade until we realised that we had two problems: not everybody was driving as carefully as they should, and, more importantly, not every accident is due to reckless driving, as the financial crisis has shown. that is why we need active safety features such as air bags; that is why we need roadside assistance; that is why we need an ambulance for people who have got hurt. the berès/böge report on fiscal capacity gives a good indication of how such features can be created within our common currency. it also acknowledges that some of these features could induce moral hazard, such as not putting on your seatbelt or driving recklessly. in doing so, the berès/böge report is an example of a good franco-german compromise by convinced europeans. with this report we are moving our union forward in the spirit of solidarity and responsibility. i very much hope that the commission’s white paper will be similarly clear and forward-looking, ahead of the rome summit, national elections in a number of key member states, and brexit.
mr woolfe, please. your intervention is not a question. anyway, you're still not in the picture after 24 of 30 seconds. the question is therefore settled.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the verhofstadt report: yes, europe must stand with trump and brexit. the road to a defence community, a security policy, a more efficient use of funds. the report also rightly criticises the member states which block and prevent more europe: border control, schengen, data exchange are examples. but the report would be even better if the criticism of the member states also concerned the continuing breach of european debt ceilings. from germany to greece, we have violated the stability pact more than 100 times. why don't we address that directly in the report? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not european. it's more likely to drive the community apart. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council of ministers. but first forgiveness, then more integration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll make this quick. many people have the impression that the european union does not add value to them, that it is a bureaucratic monster and that it does not follow the rules. we need to find answers to that. we must also stop worrying about ourselves and how we want to develop the treaties in the coming years and give answers. the first answer must be that the commission, as guardian of the treaties, has to ensure that the rules are respected. we do not need new institutions, but what is agreed must be applied. secondly, we need a council which accepts that the tasks which it delegates to the european union are also decided at european level. we have decision-making procedures which do not help us to be able to act where europe acts. and thirdly, dear friends, we need a european parliament which really represents the citizens and not interests which may have a majority in this house but do not have a majority in the people. we do not need new institutions in europe, but we need clear action based on rules.
i am not going to go into detail. for the next catch-the-eye procedure, i have four times as many word messages as i can take on the schedules. i would therefore ask you to allow me, or to check with me, to limit myself to those who have not already spoken about 'blue cards' in previous debates, or to those who have arrived very late in the plenary for this debate. catch the eye
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for today’s very interesting debate. in conclusion i will address the issue of budgetary capacity for the euro area, on which the report by ms berès and mr böge aims to put forward a consensual position of the european parliament. we need to see it in the wider context of the work on completing economic and monetary union. the five presidents’ report of june 2015 set out how to go about this. we have already seen progress on the four unions as outlined in the report’s first phase: an economic union focusing on convergence, prosperity and social cohesion; an integrated financial union to finance companies and households better and to ensure financial stability; a closer fiscal union for sound and integrated fiscal policies; and a political union to safeguard democratic accountability and strengthen legitimacy where needed. further deepening of emu should be built on the existing instruments, notably the european semester, putting more flesh on its bones and strengthening its credibility and effectiveness. the idea of the convergence code, creating a more binding framework for economic policy coordination around key economic competitiveness and social targets, would go in that direction. also any further refinement of our economic and monetary union must fully respect the provisions of the stability and growth pact. only then will we have the stability and credibility we need for more ambitious designs. at the same time, the five presidents’ report also noted that, in the medium to long term, completing the economic and monetary union may require further institutional evolution and new tools. the existing instruments, the european stability mechanism, and previously european financial stability facility, and the european financial stabilisation mechanism have been successful in overcoming the most difficult part of the crisis. the financial system has been reinforced too through the establishment of the banking union. looking to the future the five presidents’ report proposes a system of public risk sharing to be enhanced through a fiscal stabilisation mechanism for the euro area as a whole. its aim would be to deal with major shocks, when national stabilisation systems prove insufficient even if the country hit by the problems has been following all the rules. the main ideas being discussed are all around boosting investment and supporting unemployment benefits, possibly via a reinsurance scheme. such mechanisms could and should be set up in a way that does not lead to permanent transfers among countries or undermine incentives for sound policy-making at national level. i understand that these are the sort of questions that were at the heart of the debate you had in drawing up the report by ms berès and mr böge. as the report was adopted in committee only last night, we are not in a position today to give you a point by point, or line by line, commentary. but we will study the recommendations parliament adopts this week very closely. our common goal is a more resilient and prosperous economic and monetary union. as frans timmermans said, the social dimension also runs throughout efforts to complete the emu. it is clear that the institutional, political and legal challenges are substantial but it is vital that we overcome them. the commission’s white paper on the future of europe will present a wider vision for the future of europe. it will take into account the very valuable suggestions in the three important reports before us today, which i know are the outcome of long hours of negotiation. in the weeks and months to come we will continue to work closely with parliament and the council in this area. there are no easy solutions, no simple answers to such complex issues. responsibility and solidarity must always go hand in hand, and only when we reconcile our approaches can we all move forward. today’s debate, i believe, is certainly a step in the right direction.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have to say that i am not entirely convinced that the european parliament has the right to decide on the future of the european union. but now for the debate itself. first of all, i would like to thank mercedes bresso, my co-author. she had as much work on this report as i did. i think that should be made very clear and i hope that she can be back here soon to work with us. i wish her well. the second point is that the opponents of europe, whether on the right or the left, are always calling for solutions, but are constantly denying the instruments to achieve them. that means they don't want the solutions. they don't want our citizens to have a solution so they can make their bread out of this unrest. this is anti-citizen behaviour, as expressed by those on the right and those on the left who are opposed to europe, and it is directed against the people. the second point i would like to make is that we must involve the national parliaments - i forgot this earlier - in a very clear way. but it must be clear in the decision-making processes: each at his own level and no mixing of levels of responsibility. i think we're going to get a little bit further in that direction. i am in favour of sovereignty. but sovereignty where it can be enforced. many people now say: 'we cannot do this in a european way because it destroys sovereignty'. firstly, the treaties and the powers are clear - that is the formal argument. but the other argument is that in many areas, the nation state is too weak to enforce sovereignty for its own citizens in this global order. europe is not about destroying national sovereignty. europe means recovering sovereignty for our peoples through europe. we must make that clear so that we can get the support of our citizens here.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eurobarometer surveys show month after month that a large majority of people in all the member states of the european union are in favour of the european union. on the contrary, on the big issues people want a strong europe that can act. this is particularly true for stimulating the economy and creating jobs. we are proposing to strengthen the euro zone, but also to strengthen the economy of the european union as a whole. this is also true of the creation of security, both within the european union and more generally. there are large majorities in the population that the eu acts together and that is why we can solve the problems. we also need fair competition, competition in tax policy. it is unfair that some people can avoid taxes and escape to tax havens. we need to fight social dumping - there must be no social dumping in the internal market - and, of course, fair trade in the world. we have discussed the issues that china is concerned about, and perhaps soon the united states could be concerned about. we must protect ourselves without being protectionist. the current treaty of lisbon has possibilities which we have not yet exploited. we have a europe of several speeds. it must be possible for one group of countries to go first and then others to follow later. and in the eurozone, we need an instrument that makes this zone weatherproof. i am concerned with breaking down national silos in the european debate. we simply need platforms for a common debate on the future. i therefore suggest that the parliaments should come together, as they did in 1990 in assisi, and that ultimately a common debate should also lead to a convention which makes proposals for a better, stronger europe - and that, if possible, before the next european elections.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. what do the citizens expect from us? that we ensure freedom and security for them in the broadest sense and that we focus on that! the basis for this is that we manage to regain tolerance and trust in each other. we have to catch up, or as angela merkel once said in the plenary ten years ago: we must also be prepared to see with the eyes of others. there is also a need to catch up. it should be possible to put together a package of measures which includes a comprehensive solidarity to guarantee freedom and security. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of foreign and security policy. stabilizing our neighborhood, because otherwise, times are gonna be pretty damn uncertain for us. this includes us launching international rules-based free trade agreements to further anchor our values, our principles of economic policy, of social responsibility globally. this includes the protection of external borders and, of course, - as mentioned in the berès/böge report - the sustainable stabilisation of the eurozone in the interests of the european union as a whole. if we succeed in agreeing on such concrete objectives in the coming months and then also offer solutions to them with a certain capacity for compromise, then we will justify the trust of the citizens and also win back where it has been lost.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2017. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes.) written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. i agreed with the rapporteur's demands. the approach of fully exploiting the lisbon treaty for a reorientation of the eu is the right approach to make the eu fit for the future. a convention is not in sight for the next 10 years. the european union and its member states are facing unprecedented challenges. we need to regain the trust of our citizens by making decision-making more transparent and by improving the accountability of institutions, agencies and informal bodies (such as the eurogroup), by intensifying inter-institutional cooperation and by building capacity. we must make full use of the legal possibilities offered by the treaties.
in writing. this debate is a sarcastic highlight of the plenary week. the christian democrats, socialists and fundamentalists have agreed on a vision for the eu that is not good for europe. they want to develop the eu by two measures: firstly, the legal possibilities of the existing treaties are to be exhausted to the limit in order to give the eu as many tasks as possible. secondly, we must have new european treaties. for the new treaties, you propose an eu finance minister, including the eu treasury and taxation law, and an eu economic government, plus an eu foreign minister and that is by no means all. to discuss this big push for "more europe", more centralisation and less say for the member states, i.e. the united states of europe, as if brexit had never happened, shows that they, the brussels nobles, live in their own world far from the citizens. the low point of parliamentarism is that this key positioning of the cdu, spd and greens was misused by the rules of procedure of the eu parliament to describe it as 'non-strategic' in order to prevent amendments from us euro-realists.
president of the republic of austria. – mr president, members of the european parliament, it is a pleasure and a privilege to see you all here today. thank you, mr president, for giving me this opportunity to talk to you. it was, and is, important for me to give my first speech outside the borders of austria here at the european parliament. (applause) i thought it would be a good signal, and i am happy to see that the signal got across. i am addressing you, but i am also addressing the 500 million citizens of europe, so i will switch between addressing you directly and talking to the people of europe. now let me continue in german. herr präsident, meine damen und herren! zunächst einmal kurz zu meiner person, weil ich glaube, dass sie einen gewissen symbolischen gehalt hat für die entwicklung von europa. meine mutter war estin, und sie war dreisprachig: estnisch, russisch und deutsch. mein vater, würde ich sagen, war kulturell russe, ethnisch ein westeuropäer, und er sprach neben den drei sprachen meiner mutter auch einigermaßen englisch. seine familie, also seine vorfahren, waren im 18. jahrhundert aus den niederlanden nach russland emigriert – aus welchen gründen auch immer, die familiengeschichte schweigt sich darüber aus – und hatten in russland über fast 200 jahre erfolg. ich – ich lasse jetzt die ganze geschichte des 20. jahrhunderts weg – bin in wien geboren und in einem dorf in den tiroler bergen aufgewachsen. ich habe an universitäten und forschungsinstituten in deutschland und in österreich gearbeitet und spreche sozusagen zweiunddreiviertel sprachen: deutsch und englisch und die sprache meines heimatdorfs aus tirol – eine sprache, würde ich sagen, die für fremde nahezu unverständlich ist. und deswegen spreche ich ungern von einem dialekt. wer’s nicht glaubt: für die deutschsprachigen hier im raum: übersetzen sie bitte (der redner sagt einige worte in tiroler mundart.). großes rätselraten. das heißt auf hochdeutsch: letztes jahr ist wie gestern. also, ich könnte sagen: ethnisch und kulturell bin ich österreicher – und ein kind europas. das ist ja mittlerweile nichts außergewöhnliches, in naher zukunft wird das dem europäischen durchschnitt entsprechen – wenn wir diese zukunft nicht leichtfertig verspielen. ich bin sozusagen aus einer glücklichen verbindung vieler einzigartiger umstände entstanden. und das ist auch das vereinte europa für mich heute in seinen hellsten stunden: eine geglückte verbindung einzigartiger umstände. leider ist es dieser tage notwendig, sich hin und wieder daran zu erinnern. leider ist es in der europäischen union nicht salonfähig, aber in mode gekommen, dass man sich entscheiden müsse, ob man denn wählen müsse, sich entscheiden müsse zwischen der liebe zu seiner heimat, zu seinem vaterland einerseits und der liebe zu europa auf der anderen seite, zwischen der hilfsbedürftigkeit der eigenen landsleute und jener anderer menschen, zwischen dem eigennutz und dem nutzen anderer. und dieses entweder-oder führt, glaube ich, in die irre. wir können unser heimatland lieben und die europäische idee. (beifall) wir können unseren landsleuten helfen und anderen ausländischen mitbürgern. wir können uns selber nützen und zum wohle aller anderen beitragen. das alles schließt einander nicht aus. im gegenteil, meine ich: es bedingt einander, wir bedingen einander, wir brauchen einander. europa ist für mich ein kontinent des „und“ und nicht des „entweder-oder“. ich glaube, dass es nicht übertrieben ist zu sagen, dass uns das auf dieser erde einzigartig macht. unser aller zukunft ist direkt mit der zukünftigen rolle europas in der welt verbunden. deshalb waren auch die zukunft der eu, die zukunft der europäischen union, die zukunft der europäischen demokratie zentrale motive, ich würde sagen, herzensanliegen meiner wahlbewegung in österreich, und wir haben nicht zuletzt aufgrund dieser eindeutig proeuropäischen haltung diese wahlen gewonnen. (beifall) ich erzähle ihnen das, weil ich allen proeuropäischen kräften mut machen will, zuversicht geben will. es ist möglich, mit einem glasklaren bekenntnis zur europäischen union wahlen zu gewinnen. es gibt keinerlei automatik sozusagen für die europhoben, das heft zu übernehmen. meine erfahrung ist, dass insbesondere die ganz jungen wählerinnen und wähler – in österreich darf man schon ab 16 wählen, mit 16 jahren ist man wahlberechtigt – insbesondere die ganz jungen wähler wollen sich ihre zukunft in der europäischen union nicht nehmen lassen. auch eine erfahrung aus dem wahlkampf: bei den älteren, alten und ganz alten – noch älter als ich, und ich bin schon alt genug – schießen neuerdings und nicht ganz zu unrecht erinnerungen an die dreißigerjahre hoch. also zusammengefasst: meine wahl zum bundespräsidenten der republik österreich vom dezember 2016 war eine klare absage an den aufkeimenden nationalismus, protektionismus, an den verführerischen, vereinfachenden populismus. es ist meine überzeugung, und ich glaube, die der großen mehrheit in diesem saal, dass man mit der verletzung der würde des menschen, mit der ablehnung gegenüber allem fremden, der einschränkung von grundwerten, grundrechten und grundfreiheiten, mit neuen mauern und alten nationalismen kein einziges problem löst. im gegenteil: man schafft neue. (beifall)man schafft neue. das ist keine prognose, das ist eine erkenntnis, würde ich glauben, aus leidvollen erfahrungen insbesondere aus der ersten hälfte des 20. jahrhunderts – erfahrungen, aus denen wir unsere lehren gezogen haben oder zumindest haben sollten. blicken wir also nach vorne: die einhaltung des rechts und unsere gemeinsamen europäischen werte sind die voraussetzung für die bewältigung der vielen neuen herausforderungen. wenn es heute eine entscheidungsfrage gibt, dann ist es in meinen augen nicht die zwischen national auf der einen seite und transnational oder international auf der anderen seite, sondern die: glauben wir noch, dass alle menschen frei und gleich an würde und rechten geboren sind? erinnern sie sich: das ist artikel eins der allgemeinen erklärung der menschenrechte. glauben wir das, oder glauben wir das nicht? in wenigen tagen feiern wir den 60. geburtstag unserer heutigen union. diese letzten 60 jahre sind eine erfolgsgeschichte – manchmal habe ich den eindruck, eher für jene, die außerhalb der union leben, als für die, die innerhalb der union leben. im nächsten jahr, 2018, gedenken wir des 100. jahrestags des endes des ersten weltkriegs, des einmarschs hitlers in österreich vor 80 jahren, der beendigung des prager frühlings vor 50 jahren. sorgen wir dafür, dass bei diesen gelegenheiten nicht nur kränze niedergelegt, kerzen angezündet und feierliche reden gehalten werden, sondern dass ein neues europäisches bewusstsein gestärkt wird. denn die eu ist das gelungene projekt einer offenen gesellschaft, basierend auf demokratie, freiheit, menschenrechten, ökonomischem erfolg – was wir wohlstand nennen – und der verantwortung, die das mit sich bringt, für uns alle. ich glaube nicht, dass es übertrieben ist, zu sagen, dass dieses vereinte europa das resultat einer einzigartigen zivilisationsleistung ist. wir haben diesen frieden in europa aus purer einsicht – aus purer einsicht – hergestellt durch kooperation und gegenseitigen respekt. das ist eine zivilisationsleistung, auf die wir stolz sein können und sollen und die gar nicht hoch genug einzuschätzen ist. (beifall) ich komme jetzt zu einem wichtigen punkt, den man im deutschen den kampf gegen die verzwergung nennt. ich weiß nicht, wie das übersetzt werden kann, aber sie werden gleich sehen, was gemeint ist. auf basis dieses gemeinsam errungenen friedens können wir europa zu wohlstand und einer blüte führen, die seine einzelnen länder isoliert nicht erreichen können. es ist eine einfache wahrheit, glaube ich, eine tatsache, dass wir gemeinsam stärker sind als allein. wenn wir auf diese einfache wahrheit vergessen, setzen wir vieles, wenn nicht alles, aufs spiel, was dieses westliche europa ausmacht. von außen betrachtet, von außerhalb der union, kann es für andere staaten – ob das jetzt nachbarn sind an der östlichen außengrenze der union oder nachbarn jenseits des atlantiks – natürlich erfolgversprechender und profitabler erscheinen, die union, uns alle, auseinanderzudividieren. ich halte es für zeitverschwendung, darüber zu klagen. realpolitisch müssen wir einfach damit rechnen, dass manche drittstaaten versuchen oder versuchen werden, die europäische verhandlungsmacht zu schwächen. die pure verhandlungsmacht ist nun einmal trivialerweise für einen einzelnen europäischen staat ungleich kleiner als für einen ganzen kontinent. daher liegt es meiner überzeugung nach im interesse jedes einzelnen mitgliedstaats der union, einen rückfall in die frühere kleinstaaterei zu vermeiden. (beifall) ich zögere jetzt etwas. ich habe mir gedacht, ich könnte zur beleuchtung des ganzen an ein märchen erinnern, also ein bisschen eulen nach athen tragen in diesem saal. das märchen ist nämlich jenes vom hans im glück, das es im deutschen sprachraum gibt, aber ich glaube, in vielen anderen sprachen ähnlich auch. dieser hans im glück besitzt zunächst einmal einen großen klumpen gold, und aus welchen gründen auch immer fängt er einen großen tauschprozess an. dieses gold tauscht er gegen ein pferd, das gegen eine kuh, gegen eine ziege, gegen ein huhn und so weiter. zum schluss endet er mit einem schlichten stein. jeweils lässt er sich einreden, das sei ein gutes geschäft. jetzt kann man sagen: das ist nicht sehr klug von ihm. aber manchmal hat man den eindruck, wir stehen in europa tatsächlich vor einem punkt, an dem der affekt wichtiger wird als die vernunft. lassen wir uns nicht einreden, es wäre ein gutes geschäft, die macht unserer großen europäischen gemeinschaft gegen die viel kleinere macht der vermeintlichen nationalen souveränität einzutauschen. (beifall) am ende wäre das ein verlust für alle. aber abgesehen von der schlechten verhandlungsposition, in die eine regression in einzelne europäische staaten uns bringen würde: welche der großen anstehenden probleme, der großen probleme, könnte der einzelstaat besser lösen – ob das jetzt flucht und migration ist, ob es klimawandel und energiepolitik ist, arbeitslosigkeit und armut, krieg und vertreibung, gewalt und terror? alle diese fragen auf einzelstaatlicher ebene besser zu lösen als in der gemeinschaft? don’t make me laugh!, würde ich sagen. das ist nur, wenn überhaupt, gemeinsam lösbar. sie wissen vielleicht, ich bin ursprünglich ökonom gewesen – ein bisschen immer noch. wer, wenn nicht die europäische gemeinschaft, hat die kraft und die macht, globale konzerne bei missbrauch der marktmacht in ihre schranken zu weisen? wer? (beifall) das erinnert mich an auseinandersetzungen mit microsoft, neuerdings mit apple und anderen firmen, die ich in keiner weise kritisiere. aber die spielregeln, die auszuhandeln sind, die spielregeln, die unter anderem jetzt mit facebook, google, microsoft und co zu vereinbaren sind, das kann der einzelstaat nicht, und sei er noch so groß. österreich kann es einmal ganz bestimmt nicht, aber ich bezweifle auch, dass deutschland allein es könnte. gemeinsam müssen wir das machen. (beifall) aber gemeinsam auch können wir an einem europa arbeiten, in dem die klassischen menschenrechtlichen prinzipien, die menschenrechte, freiheit und respekt eine chance haben, respekt vor dem andersdenkenden, vor dem anderslebenden, vor dem andersaussehenden – ein europa, in dem sicherheit, wohlstand und sozialer friede zu hause sind. aber selbstverständlich ist es nicht, wir müssen schon daran arbeiten. dieses europa ist, glaube ich, unvollständig und verletzlich. und wundern darf man sich auch nicht darüber, wenn 28 – ich spreche immer noch von 28 – hochentwickelte industriestaaten demokratisch strukturiert das drehbuch schreiben für ihr zusammenleben, dann ist es klar, dass das im einzelnen weder einfach noch unumstritten sein wird. aber es ist allzu leicht, hier zweifel und zwietracht zu säen. missverstehen sie mich nicht: ich komme ursprünglich aus der wissenschaft, und der nutzen, die notwendigkeit von zweifeln ist mir nur allzu bewusst. sonst würde sich weder forschung entwickeln noch sich irgendetwas bewegen auf der welt. politisch ist nur wichtig, dass die zuversicht dann den zweifel überwiegt, denn ohne diese zuversicht werden wir verbesserungen nicht bewirken können. meine damen und herren! wir – wir hier im haus, die bürger und bürgerinnen dieses europas – entscheiden schon gemeinsam, in welche richtung europa sich entwickeln wird. wir entscheiden, wie wir europa sehen wollen und sehen werden, und wir entscheiden darüber, wie unser europa in der ganzen welt gesehen werden soll, welches bild europa abgeben wird. ich glaube an ein gemeinsames starkes europa, in dem die grundwerte der menschenrechte, der freiheit, gleichheit und brüderlichkeit – solidarität würde ich vielleicht sagen heutzutage –, ein europa, wo die rechtsstaatlichen grundfesten fest verankert sind, wo der kampf gegen den klimawandel ernst genommen wird und wo wir zwischen tatsachen, fake news und alternative facts durchaus imstande sind zu unterscheiden. (beifall) ich glaube, dass so ein europa mit seinem rechtsstaatlichen wertefundament das vorbild für die ganze welt sein kann. ich möchte das nicht mit erhobenem zeigefinger sagen. ich glaube es einfach, dass diese entwicklung der letzten 50, 60, 70 jahre insgesamt gesehen dieses vorbild sein kann. wir müssen aber dann auch dazu sagen, dass diese europäischen werte unverhandelbar sind. meine damen und herren! abschließend – fast abschließend: in meiner rede anlässlich meiner angelobung im österreichischen parlament habe ich mich direkt an die jüngsten generationen gewandt, und ich möchte hier und heute diese worte an die jüngsten unter uns wiederholen, direkt sozusagen in die kamera. missverstehen sie mich nicht – wenn ich so herumschaue, sind zwar die meisten jünger als ich, aber die jüngsten sind sie nicht. mit den jüngsten meine ich tatsächlich die, die in den kindergarten gehen, die in die schule gehen, die vielleicht eine lehre machen für eine berufsausbildung, die an einer universität inskribiert sind. diesen jüngsten unter uns sage ich: ihr seid es, die die welt neu bauen werdet, und ihr seid es, die dieses europa neu bauen werdet. und wir, die älteren, wo sich im einzelfall schon abzeichnet, dass unsere zeit endlich ist, wir, die älteren, wir brauchen euch, wir brauchen eure leidenschaft, eure ideen, euren widerspruch, vielleicht hin und wieder euren respekt, eure talente und eure zuversicht. so wird dieses europa bestehen. und gemeinsam müssen wir alle, können wir alle, jung und alt, diese anstehenden herausforderungen, die vor uns liegen, durchaus meistern. jedenfalls dürfen wir älteren nicht zulassen, dass den jüngeren europa gestohlen wird. (beifall) wissen sie, europa zu zerstören, ist nicht schwer. aber wieder aufzubauen, was einmal zerstört wurde, das ist sehr schwer, das ist mühsam und zeitaufwendig. um ein beispiel aus der natur zu verwenden: einen baum haben sie binnen minuten gefällt, aber ihn wachsen zu lassen, das braucht dann wieder jahrzehnte. lassen wir uns also unsere zuversicht nicht nehmen. die europäische idee ist groß, sie ist einzigartig, und sie ist aller mühen wert! ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude with a somewhat sentimental anecdote. recently i read a scottish crime novel entitled ‘set in darkness’. this title was taken from a poem by sarah williams, from around 1868 i think, and four lines in this poem run as follows: ‘though my soul may set in darkness, it will rise in perfect light; i have loved the stars too fondly to be fearful of the night’. believe it or not, reading that it suddenly came to my mind: these are the stars of the european flag. i could reframe the last two lines, reading something like ‘i do love these stars too fondly to be fearful of the night’ – or to be fearful of the next crisis of the european union. thank you for your attention. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
mr president, i would like to refer to article 128 of our rules of procedure. on 4 may 2015, 155 members of this house handed in to the european commission an oral question concerning the quality of the european commission’s answers to our written questions. this proposal that was handed in has just been dropped. on 4 january of this year, 246 members of this house handed in the same question again. according to article 128 of our rules of procedure, the president of this house has to hand this request immediately to the conference of presidents. the conference of presidents held meetings on 12 january, on 19 january and on 9 february, and at none of those meetings was this request debated. i ask you to do what the rules of procedure ask you to do: please make sure that this request is immediately handed to the conference of presidents. thank you very much. it is 246 members. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, sorry, we want very briefly, on behalf of my co-rapporteur, bogdan wenta, to table two short amendments concerning paragraph 5 and paragraph 79. it is written but i will just tell you: ‘stresses the importance of defining poverty in line with the definition of the 2005 consensus and the agenda for change and within the framework of the lisbon treaty’. that is paragraph 5 and in paragraph 79, just to add the word ‘humanity’.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i thank you, mr vice-president dombrovskis, for your assessment. you've been putting up good numbers. you've made a good record. our group is concerned, however. because if we have positive results, if we are on the right track - at least better than we have been for a long time - why do we have voices in the member states again talking about an imminent grexit? i ask you, mr dombrovskis, how do you take responsibility for such statements by national politicians who seem to want to create bad weather, and what is the commission's reaction? i 'd like to know , too . they say that the review should be completed as soon as possible. what is the real obstacle to doing so on 20 february? we do not want to - and this is our social democratic position - to slip into a situation in europe like we had in the summer of 2015. there is far too much good work, far too much goodwill in the last few months and years to get us going. we have an escalation of the situation where we have to take care of refugees in a decent way. we were in a very different situation four years ago. we had a very different situation two years ago. tens of thousands of refugees are now in greece. i cannot see how it is responsible to stir things up and try to create a new escalation, ignoring the realities. i would like to know what the council and commission's position is on this matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, we should be glad - and this should be the starting point of this discussion - that after two years we have positive figures in greece again. it was not easy, because european policy, together with inconsistent reform efforts in greece, led to another two years of stagnation. it's finally moving forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to illustrate this with two or three examples. on the one hand, it says that the imf must remain in the programme. on the other hand, there is no willingness to respond to the imf's demands for debt relief. at the same time, it is being repeatedly assumed by the german public, as well as in other countries, that there are no reform efforts in greece. i am grateful that the commission has found much more nuanced words here. but it is regularly done as if greece is lost anyway. the german liberals, unlike sylvie goulard here, are campaigning for grexit. you might have something to say about that. the point is that this is a policy that is being made on the backs of greece in a situation where the country could again emerge from difficulties that are actually national in origin. at the same time, reforms are being demanded of greece, and rightly so. but what reforms? they are socially one-sided: the tax should be raised for those who earn poorly. the commission has also proposed that the pension system be restructured, although there is still no basic security in greece, as provided for in the memorandum. so we have to be fair here. the commitments to greece must be fulfilled and greece needs a sustainable course of reform. i am more in favour of the european commission than the agitators in various parts of this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are now debating greece for the second time. many colleagues in this chamber will agree with me that we are repeatedly confronted with the same problem: the lack of progress in implementing the reform agenda. this certainly includes two core areas of structural reform. only in december did we have a long discussion on labour market and industrial relations reforms in greece - an area where there is still a need for major action, as well as on the tax system. this includes tackling unfair tax burdens and ineffective tax administration. the fact is that the greek government is showing no will to take the necessary reforms in hand and, above all, to implement them seriously. it is nice to have mr papadimoulis here attacking the german government. my perception is that both the greek prime minister and the greek government as a whole have not or have not been able to control credibility. this has to end. the second review is likely to be completed at the next meeting of finance ministers this month. i would like to emphasize once again that the greek government must finally find a way out of the crisis, not the greek people, who have already taken on a lot. but in the end, it will require a comprehensive implementation of the reform agenda. i'm looking forward to the blue card from mr. papadimoulis. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. well, i trust myself a lot. but to answer so many questions in 30 seconds, even i cannot do that, dear colleague papadimoulis. i can almost feel your nervousness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one thing is clear: if you look at these polling figures, it is very likely that the greek government will not be re-confirmed. that is why the greek government does not want new elections. but to answer what you asked at the beginning: i personally believe that the greek government needs to deliver more less the people, the population. because in fact there is a lot of injustice in your country, especially in tax matters, and that needs to be addressed. i think that the commission has no particular need to attack the greek government in this matter. (the speaker declines to answer a question on the 'blue card' procedure put by mr lucke.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i don't know a single economist who is convinced that greece can bear its debt burden. i don't know anyone who believes that greece will ever pay back the debt. i also know of no one who is not convinced that the euro is far too strong for greece and, incidentally, far too weak for germany - my country. i think it is time that we made a new, generous offer to the greek government: we will release greece from the straitjacket of the single euro. that's one side of the offer. and the second side is that we are going to forgive greece its unbearable debt. this has three major advantages. first, it costs the creditors nothing, because everyone knows the money is long gone. secondly, it states that creditors will not have to bear any further rescue packages in the future. thirdly, it means that greece, with its own devalued currency, can become competitive again, it can grow again, it can combat its unemployment, especially that of the young. so we need a generous offer for the greeks: exit from the euro on the one hand, debt relief on the other.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am very grateful to you, mr president, for taking up the debate, whereas the representatives of the major political groups are not very happy to do so. i have a question for you: while this debate has emphasized that greece is growing again, it has apparently not yet been processed that the latest figures for greece show that greece is shrinking. in the fourth quarter, growth was again negative. first, how do you rate this? secondly, you have just said no to monetary union. i would like to ask you what you think of my colleague mr henkel's proposal that greece should leave the euro and in return be forgiven the debts it is unable to repay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the flowers are about to bloom, the nights are getting longer, and greece is struggling with state insolvency. so we are about to witness a european spring, as has been the case since 2010. let's put an end to this! if we let the greeks out of the euro, we will free greece and the greeks from their debt: it's called a state bankruptcy. the bailout has failed. just three, for an infinite number of reasons: firstly, greece will never achieve a primary surplus of 3.5% on a lasting basis. secondly, the troika has failed to force the greek government to take clear political action. and as democrats, we can't have that. thirdly, the greek banking system is still in ruins. 50% of loans are non-performing. this is a disaster. the situation is dramatic for the people of greece. people are sick. but the reason is the euro. the euro impoverishes people, it divides europe, and it sows hatred and envy. we must give back to the member states sovereignty over their currencies, over their budgets and over their economic policies. the neighbor who always wants to tell his neighbor how to cook the soup is always unpopular. and we need to return to a clear responsibility: greece is governed from athens, not from berlin, not from brussels and not from the ecb. the greeks point to berlin, the imf points to greece and berlin points to the imf. each blames the other: it can't be like this, it's absolutely unbearable. that is why we must give up this euro. the single european currency has failed. europe is beautiful. but that will only remain the case without the euro. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
in reply to a question on the 'blue card' procedure, i said exactly that it is not the task of the troika to make policy for greece. this is not accepted, it is not accepted by the greek people. but the cause and the reason why it doesn't work is the euro itself. the euro is too strong for greece. greece must leave the euro. we must forgive greece its debt. they're gone anyway, we'll never see the money again. let us free the greeks from the euro and let them govern themselves, not a foreign government through the troika or berlin. that's what i wanted.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to thank the presidency of the council of the european union and its views on this conflict. i agree with you . there is no sensible alternative to minsk ii. and in view of the new escalation, which we too are watching with great concern and which must finally be stopped, we must also talk about the roots of the very possible failure of the minsk ii agreement and its implementation. minsk ii was conceived as an open process. the council's decisions were based on the political complexity of the conflict, but minsk did not set out any guidelines for political solutions to the conflict. the normandy format leaders left this task to the parties concerned. the process itself was only controlled by a strong personal commitment. as we know from other conflicts and international situations, such a system is unlikely to work unless it is accompanied by a mechanism of incentives for all parties. for months now, the osce has been sending us the same message from the crisis area almost every day: there is a massive problem with the respect of commitments on both sides. both sides are firing incessantly with weapons that should be far from the front line, both sides are denying inspectors access to the control object, both sides are apparently operating secret prisons and violating international law. but i think the incentives that are still needed will only start to come into play when the eu also states the facts: that despite laws, corruption is not yet being effectively combated, that the persecution of dissidents is not being stopped. only then will mr saakashvili understand that the eu is serious about democracy and values and that he has gone far wrong in thinking that ukraine should finally dictate to the eu what it should do.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr borg, you are very welcome. the ukrainians are fighting on three fronts today. the first front is the one they have chosen themselves, and that is the daily work of building the new ukraine. progress has been made in the fight against corruption, in improving transparency, and in building an independent judiciary or a new police force. this voluntary work, this voluntary front, is being done in spite of the war and the russian occupation. the second front on which the ukrainians are fighting is the front on which people have been dying in eastern ukraine for almost three years, and now more than ten thousand people have died. these people are dead because vladimir putin does not want to dismiss ukraine from the post-soviet, or should i say neo-soviet, sphere of power and influence. awdijiwka is the name of a small town that many of you have never heard of. when the whole world was focused on donald trump, the people of awdijiwka experienced at the end of january what it's like when the kremlin decides that the ukraine has to be re-lit, and what it's like when a small town is shelled in the dead of winter overnight. from awdijiwka to the third front where the ukrainians are fighting: while people are dying in avdiivka, there are swelling votes in rome, paris and budapest calling for the lifting of sanctions against russia. it was romano prodi who interfered in this choir in a particularly striking way. he said, "let's get ahead of trump and lift the sanctions on russia". he then said, in trump's words: let's make europe great with putin. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to be able to say that the european parliament is not the only one to be able to say that the european parliament is the only one to be able to say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that the european parliament is the only one that can say that it is the only one that can say that it is the only one that can say that it is the only one that can say that it is the only one that it can say that it is the only one that it can say that it is. the eu is giving up another part of itself by abandoning the sanctions. it has been clear since awdijiwka that we need to talk about tightening sanctions. first of all, we must talk honestly about minsk. minsk was to achieve the absence of war. but how can we really make peace with an occupier who lies about the occupation and who does not withdraw his weapons and his soldiers from eastern ukraine? so an honest accounting of minsk is what we owe the ukrainians. whether they see the eu as a third front or a partnership is in our hands.
the commission has already taken action on this. i would like to know how much it costs you to say this nonsense about ukraine, because i know that mr. putin and russian banks have financed your party. can you state how much you received?
mr president, mr schaffhauser did not answer ms harms’ questions, and with all due respect, what you said, mr schaffhauser, about eastern ukraine, about the situation in that country, is utter nonsense, and you should be ashamed of what you have been saying here in this plenary. let us call things as they are. the escalation in fighting would not be possible without the military support and strategic direction that russia provides. this is evident. in a telephone conversation last week, chancellor angela merkel urged mr putin to use his influence to end the violence in eastern ukraine, and i would like to thank the german chancellor for her clear words on this issue once again. last friday, the ukrainian deputy prime minister, ms ivanna klympush-tsintsadze, was in brussels and during our meeting, i reassured her. ukrainians have reacted to this difficult period with exceptional dignity, courage and devotion to their national values. i salute them for it and welcome the fact that the government in kiev continues to press forward with the necessary reforms, despite this very fragile security situation. there ought to be a clear consensus that the european union does not, and will not, recognise russia’s illegal annexation of crimea. we remain united in our response to russian action in this country. this means the eu will maintain sanctions against russia until there is a full implementation of the minsk agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what a sad discussion we're having here! we have repeatedly found that russia has broken international law. we all condemn the fact that heavy weapons have now apparently been returned, and that was more or less the case. where are our initiatives to support minsk? where are our initiatives to do a little more so that minsk can perhaps be achieved? if you say, mr borg, that a commissioner is coming to the demarcation line and will make a clear statement! does he do that with a microphone? no, we could show our solidarity with ukraine by working faster and better when it comes to visa liberalisation, which this country has long deserved but has not gotten through our internal disputes. we could perhaps also benefit this country by giving them some good advice, such as not forcing their own people in the east into the arms of those who have no business being in this country by means of blockades.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if mr putin wanted to check whether the new us administration or the europeans would simply accept increased aggression in ukraine, i do not think he has paid his bill. the united states has not lifted the sanctions, and the us ambassador has also made her point at the united nations. mrs mogherini, like others, has also expressed criticism. what should we do now? let's take the final step towards visa-free travel for ukraine! ukraine has done its part. i understand that at the moment it is only the french government that is delaying. i would ask mr hollande to understand that he has nothing to gain by delaying this matter. and i think we should also be working towards a comprehensive osce police mission, a robust mission that ensures that minsk can actually be implemented in its details. we need their presence on the ground to give people the courage to respect their right to vote in elections, for example. i also think we should extend personal sanctions against many more russian citizens who are directly benefiting from the war in eastern ukraine. they are all known, and accordingly we should put them on the sanctions list.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. just one day after mrs merkel cancelled the german-israeli government consultations, you are trying to stand up against israel in a tribunal. israel is building homes in judea and samaria. the european union is also building in judea and samaria without any legal basis and then complains that it will be expensive to demolish what has been built there illegally. in this respect, it might be appropriate for the european union to begin to change its own legal standards. and if you accuse israel of promoting a one-state policy, well, you're probably right. i think that is what is called real and also security policy for israel.
i have to say, madam president, we have had three discussions on realpolitik today. the realpolitik is indeed the two-state solution and that solution deserves your full support. today's debate was preceded by a vote in the israeli parliament which was contrary to international law. this makes a peaceful solution in the middle east increasingly unlikely. once again, israel's illegal settlement policy has been given a semblance of legality and foreign land and property has been annexed. no less than israeli attorney general avichai mandelblit had publicly stated shortly before the vote that he could not legally defend such a law it violated israeli and international law. i say to the self-styled defenders of the radical settlement policy, which is contrary to international law, in this house: in the interests of peace, reconsider your positions to date, because the western values that are so often invoked also apply to israel.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the israeli parliament has set a precedent by subsequently legalising illegal settlements. this could be the first step towards a complete annexation of the occupied territories. the two-state solution is thus becoming increasingly remote. i therefore welcome the decision to postpone the israeli-eu association council, which was scheduled for 28 february. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the palestinian authority has been unable to meet its obligations under the terms of the peace agreement. the european commission should propose concrete measures to ensure that the eu can distinguish more clearly between the state of israel and the illegal settlement outposts in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. i would also have liked a european parliament resolution, in line with un security council resolution 2334 of december 2016, in which we clearly condemn settlement policy. unfortunately, this has so far been prevented by the epp group, among others.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. again, the west bank and the settlements are full of blind bias. please do not make blanket claims like the settlements are illegal or even occupation. international law on the west bank is extremely extensive and offers no solution for israel. israel is a sovereign state governed by the rule of law, which includes the west bank and east jerusalem. neither the eu nor the un can take legal action without the explicit consent of israel. we are making a fool of ourselves as the eu when we negotiate with people who have made a terrorist organisation their government, who refuse to negotiate peace or who torpedo it with weapons. israel can only defend itself by counter-force or protective fences and walls. the palestinians are responsible. they have not been able to live together with the israelis for centuries, because since mohammed, the religion of the muslims sees violence as a solution. we europeans are undeniably convinced that palestine and the world must recognize the state of israel. one last one: the settlements are in area c of the west bank. so they're not illegal, but they're legal settlements for israel under the oslo peace treaty.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. since the summer of 2014, albania has been a candidate country for eu accession and has since made steady progress in meeting the accession criteria and the so-called key priorities. the greatest achievement of the country and all political leaders, the ruling majority and the opposition, is without a doubt the adoption of a comprehensive judicial reform. i therefore congratulate the government and my colleagues in the albanian parliament, who have paved the way for this judicial reform by unanimously adopting the necessary constitutional amendment. the reform of the albanian judiciary is a milestone, both on the path to the eu and, above all, on the path to a modern albania - an albania whose citizens can rely on their state to protect, protect and defend their rights. my report advocates opening accession negotiations with albania once the first steps towards the implementation of judicial reform have been taken. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption and organised crime. this, of course, requires a 'vetting process' in which all judges and prosecutors are subject to a review. the credibility and effectiveness of the entire judicial reform depends on vetting. without a serious review of the members of the judiciary, there could be no serious judicial reform. the reform of the judiciary is a long-term process and its implementation will continue in parallel with the accession negotiations. the european union has also been active in the fight against organized crime. albania needs continued success in the fight against organised crime, not only in police investigations but also in prosecution up to the highest level and in the final dismantling of criminal networks. the administrative reform must continue. it is not just a question of albania's public administration being able to conduct accession negotiations with the eu efficiently. it is above all a matter of serving the interests of the citizens and being there for their concerns. the report has many other points. it is about the economy, about social progress, about environmental standards, about the protection of minorities and about working responsibly as an actor in the regional partnership. and of course, it's also about a flawless, clean election this year. vote buying in an albania on the way to the eu is unthinkable. we are prepared to support this course with all our might. i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. you have made a major contribution to the european parliament's strong voice when it adopts the report i am presenting tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank mr fleckenstein for his good and well-founded report on albania. i think we are doing a very good job of continuing to give this balkan country a lot of support on its way to the eu. let me quote the catholic archbishop of tirana and durres, george frendo, at this point: albania has no alternative to the eu. of course, the government still has some homework to do. there are still some reforms we need to tackle, particularly in the judiciary. but other issues must also be addressed, such as the control of corruption and social welfare issues. it also needs new jobs. we have too many unemployed in the country. let us support the albanian people in this endeavour and make it clear that the fight against drug trafficking, arms smuggling and corruption is of the utmost importance. it is up to the albanian people themselves to remove the obstacles which stand in the way of their entry into the eu. but we have to. we can help.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there is a saying in germany that says: "there is no good unless you do it". so in that sense, what many of you have said is exactly right: writing something down on paper is sometimes quite difficult in albania. but the implementation must come so that you can see that the whole thing is a success. secondly, mr borg, let us all keep our word. the albanian people deserve it, if they hold a proper election and start implementing the judicial reform visibly, that the negotiations will also be opened and that there will be no second thoughts, and there will be second thoughts, and there will be second thoughts. then they've done more than some of the people you're already negotiating with. the people of albania have really earned it. third point: minorities have rights. you have those rights in albania, of course. it applies to all minorities. if the report does not mention some of them, that does not mean that i do not see the concerns - or the concerns of the greek and bulgarian populations - and that there is a need to work on them. what i wanted to prevent is simply that we go through the individual nationalities, so to speak, and we stop each one individually, and that's why it's perhaps too general. there are a number of people in my group who will not follow my recommendation not to do so and who will certainly vote differently from me on this one amendment concerning the bulgarians. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in albania, and i would like to thank the commission for its support. it is simply impossible to talk about islamism in a country which, for example, sometimes gets along better than we do: the muslim population, the catholic population and the orthodox population. and much better than it is for some of us. i would therefore like to say one last thing: i prefer members of the european parliament from a reformed albania a hundred times over to the ignorant and intolerant people in your party, who, in my opinion, have no place here.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by welcoming bosnia and herzegovina’s significant progress on its path to the european union over the past year. in february 2016 bosnia and herzegovina submitted its eu membership application and in september 2016 the council invited the commission to submit an opinion on the application, and significant progress has been made as a result of bosnian and herzegovina’s return to the path of reform. now it is crucial to maintain the positive momentum. bosnia and herzegovina should remain actively committed to the opinion process at all levels and to progress in providing their input to the commission’s opinion. let me also welcome the signature on 15 december 2016 of the adaptation protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement, which takes into account croatia’s accession to the eu. the protocol provisionally entered into force on 1 february this year. it will allow bosnia and herzegovina to normalise trade relations with the union and is thus an important element of the country’s pathway in the eu integration process. the council shares the view expressed by this chamber as regards the importance, for bosnia and herzegovina, of ensuring effective implementation of the reform agenda in line with the action plan agreed by the country’s authorities. implementation is for the benefit of bosnia and herzegovina’s citizens. we expect the authorities to continue to pursue socio-economic reforms while also focusing on reforms in the field of the rule of law. these include the fight against corruption and organised crime, the fight against radicalisation and terrorism, and reform of the public administration. the functionality of bosnia and herzegovina’s institutions, including an effective coordination mechanism on eu matters, remains a priority, and the council calls on all levels of government in bosnia and herzegovina to ensure its swift and effective implementation. this mechanism, as rightly underlined in your resolution, is an essential tool for the country to be able to provide replies to the commission. i also want to reiterate the council’s serious concern about the unlawful holding of the entity-level referendum on republika srpska day and the subsequent celebrations. such actions challenge the cohesion, sovereignty and territorial integrity of bosnia and herzegovina. and let me stress here the council’s unequivocal commitment to bosnia and herzegovina’s eu perspective as a single, united and sovereign country. in this context we encourage all authorities to increase the focus on sustainable reforms and to overcome divisive rhetoric rooted in the past. we encourage bosnia and herzegovina actively to promote reconciliation and to ensure the equality of all its citizens, in line with the recently adopted legislation on anti-discrimination and the eu acquis. furthermore, the council shares parliament’s concerns as regards the lack of progress in the area of freedom of expression and media, and we expect bosnia and herzegovina to intensify efforts to address these issues effectively. to summarise, the council expects the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to ensure that the country’s challenges are addressed in a constructive manner, in a spirit of dialogue and mutual understanding. from our side, we will continue to support the country in its efforts to implement the reform agenda and to advance further on its european path.
member of the commission. – madam president, minister, honourable members, i would like to thank first and foremost the rapporteur mr cristian dan preda for the report on bosnia and herzegovina. i really welcome the text which is balanced and largely in line with the commission’s 2016 report on bosnia and herzegovina. it reflects well the state of play in the country. this report acknowledges bosnia and herzegovina’s progress on the reform track, in particular regarding important steps such as: the adoption of a coordination mechanism for eu matters aimed at improving functionality and efficiency in the accession process, progress on the implementation of the reform agenda, and sustained determination to pursue further institutional and socio-economic reforms; the signature of the stabilisation and association agreement protocol in december 2016; and finally the consideration of bosnia and herzegovina’s membership application by the council of the european union in september 2016 and the invitation to the commission to deliver an opinion on the merits of the country’s application. concrete work has started in this respect with the questionnaire i handed over to the bosnia and herzegovina authorities in december 2016. all these efforts demonstrate the strong commitment of the country’s authorities to decisively advance towards the european union, deliver on the necessary reforms and meet its citizens’ aspirations for a more prosperous future. the commission is also fully dedicated to advancing bosnia and herzegovina’s eu perspective and we appreciate the support this resolution provides for the eu’s approach to the country, in particular the focus, through the reform agenda, on socio-economic, rule of law and public administration matters. at the same time there are a number of challenges and outstanding issues on the country’s eu integration path that remain to be addressed and which are included in this report. it highlights the need for the competent authorities to provide a single and coherent set of replies to the commission’s questionnaire. this is a key requirement in the opinion preparation process and the functioning of the coordination mechanism. which working groups still need to be established, will be tested. the commission shares the view that the authorities need to keep up their efforts on further implementing the agreed 2015-2018 reform agenda. in addition to socio-economic reforms, i welcome the focus the authorities have put on strengthening the rule of law, including through the fight against corruption and organised crime, the reform of the judiciary and public administration. another key outstanding issue is unemployment. the country suffers from the highest youth unemployment in europe and its citizens expect jobs and economic opportunities, not nationalism and divisive rhetoric. madam president, honourable members, let me also touch on two specific elements of the report, the reference to federalism and the reference to constituent peoples, where i would like to reiterate the commission’s position as expressed over the past years on this issue. the eu has no competence to prescribe the internal organisation of a country as long as that country is able to meet its obligation as an eu member state, and there are various models among the eu member states. likewise, as for any eu- aspiring country, the commission expects that the country progressively aligns its legal system, including its constitution, with the requirements of the eu acquis. at eu level, discrimination on criteria such as ethnicity is explicitly banned. it will be up to the bosnia and herzegovina authorities to find legal solutions, compatible with eu principles, providing for the equality of all citizens irrespective of criteria such as ethnicity. the commission will thoroughly assess the compliance with the eu acquis in our future opinion on the merits of bosnia and herzegovina’s application. to conclude, i would like to stress that, during my latest visit to sarajevo to hand over the commission’s questionnaire, i witnessed a positive dynamic. the progress that led to this event has shown that bosnia and herzegovina can deliver, and i will continue supporting the country in further delivering in the interest of its citizens. with this in mind i look forward to continuing our fruitful cooperation with the european parliament in the months ahead.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, also for my part i would like to welcome the 2017 draft report on bosnia and herzegovina. the text prepared by my distinguished colleague, cristian dan preda, and adopted with overwhelming support in the committee on foreign affairs, is indeed, as johannes hahn just put it, comprehensive, well balanced and reflects the state of play in this country. congratulations. positive developments have been the result of reform efforts pursued over the last two years and should facilitate the country remaining on the path of the eu accession process. however, this country also continues to struggle with fragmentation, as well as ethnic and political polarisation. necessary cooperation and coordination between the entities and all levels of government remain fragile and are often subject to nationalist rhetoric and actions. this is a pity. in order to improve its citizens’ lives, additional measures need to be taken and implemented, including progressive alignment with our eu acquis. i would like to invite the country’s authorities to maintain the reform momentum and to actively promote european values in order to advance the country’s european perspective. ‘hvala na pažnji’.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the opinion on the annual growth report 2017, which is now before the plenary, is a successful opinion. the committee calls for further reforms and competitiveness in the member states' economies, more open and flexible labour markets, continued commitment to debt and deficit reduction, the removal of macroeconomic imbalances within member states where they reduce national competitiveness, improvement of the framework conditions for private investment, innovation, education and research, improved and broader corporate finance and the need for economic convergence to be an upward and not a downward convergence. in the opinion we very clearly reiterate our criticism of the lack of respect for the recommendations specific to the member states. i think it is incomprehensible that only 4% of the recommendations have been implemented. we, the parliament and the commission, cannot accept that the member states turn the european semester into a toothless tiger. if the semester process does not work, how can the deepening of economic and monetary union work? in the same breath, we are very concerned that eight member states did not submit regular budgets last autumn. that is eight of the 19 euro countries, so in terms of numbers, almost half. these are facts that should not be flattered or concealed. we have always stressed that we are critical of an aggregated view of the eurozone. the national sovereignty and responsibility must be respected, and the ability to solve problems on one's own initiative must be promoted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this is a question which, of course, comes as a complete surprise to me and which my colleague mr valli has never asked me before. i would like to answer that question. i really believe that this semester process in the narrower sense must be understood and respected by the member states in a very different way. there are certainly a number of member states which have not done so, and i am personally very disappointed. i can only say one thing because germany is mentioned again and again: i believe that this european union has also gone in the right direction economically in large part because we have strong countries. it's not just germany, it's a whole bunch of other strong countries and i wish we had many, many more of these strong countries within the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the crisis in the european union and the need to restore public confidence in europe are discussed again and again. i hope that this is not all a sunday speech and that tomorrow the result of the votes on the reports before us will also show this handwriting. our demands for a social europe are clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that must be guaranteed by a directive on good working conditions, as we also agreed in the owninitiative report on the social pillar. that is why it must reappear in the european semester. the distribution of income in europe also needs to change - as many colleagues have already said - because the gap is widening. the low-wage sector in europe is growing at an alarming rate, and that too needs to be reversed. i therefore appeal to the members present in the chamber and to those who are not here tonight: please accept our amendments so that europe can indeed have a more social face.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank ms hübner for her annual report on the banking union. it provides an excellent overview of how much has been achieved since the financial crisis and clearly identifies much of what remains to be done. the banking union is central to the new regulatory and supervisory architecture we have put in place. its main role is to maintain a strong banking system which can effectively finance the needs of the wider economy and encourage economic growth. ms hübner’s report is broad in scope, so let us focus on the main measures essential to strengthening the banking union. first, we need to improve the existing institutional framework. that is why the commission supports a call to reduce national options and discretions, to promote consistency in bank supervision across participating member states. we will work to achieve this by amending existing banking regulations. the creation of the single supervisory and resolution mechanisms has improved the coherence of the approach taken by supervisory authorities across the eu. it should now be possible to support a better use of bank capital and liquidity resources across the banking union. we are aware that some member states will have concerns about hosting banks from other eu countries, so our banking proposals aim to extend the use of liquidity and capital waivers with strong safeguards. secondly, to reduce risks in the banking sector, our eu banking reform package aims to strengthen the prudential framework and to increase banks’ ability to absorb losses in times of crisis without the help of taxpayers’ money. as set out in your report, the eu regulatory framework must be proportionate and respect diversity in the european banking sector. this is particularly true for smaller banks, for which we want light reporting and disclosure requirements. eu banks are significantly stronger than they were before the crisis. this is in large part due to their own efforts to adjust their business models, but also thanks to the regulatory reform we introduced, and better supervision. but non-performing loan ratios remain high in some member states. the commission is working with those member states to encourage the gradual reduction of non-performing loans. banks’ exposure to sovereigns is another area where the commission is engaged to find a workable solution. we share parliament’s views that the problem carries many implications. as was agreed in the june 2016 council conclusions, it is important to await the outcome of the basel committee talks before taking a decision at european level. the commission welcomes the report’s call to complete the banking union with a common deposit insurance scheme. we are committed to working with the parliament and council to take this forward. further progress is also needed to build up a sufficiently large and readily available common backstop as a significant strengthening of the single resolution mechanism’s credibility. looking beyond the financial risks facing the banking sector, the commission agrees with parliament about the need for our financial institutions to have in place strong and well-functioning it systems. we are committed to working on measures to boost cyber security in the financial sector, and in particular we support facilitating the exchange of sensitive information between banks to prevent cyber attacks while, of course, protecting the use of personal data. these are just some of the areas that struck me in your report. we share the view that we have strong foundations on which to build, but progress is still needed in a number of important areas. overall, we can be optimistic about the opportunity to refine our work so as to continue meeting our financial objectives while supporting growth and investment in europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the banking union has led to a major shift of national competences to the european level. the european banking supervision and the european resolution mechanism have created new structures that have never existed before. it is now up to the eu institutions to give these structures credibility and substance and, above all, to keep them under constant review. it is also up to the eu institutions to ensure the right balance between the necessary european supervision and the necessary national supervision, because both have their own powers and belong together. the 2016 annual report on the banking union is a very good report by the rapporteur. the report makes clear that further progress is needed in reducing risk in the banking sector, both by the legislator and by the supervisors. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the medium term. the banking union is often described as a way of cutting the link between banks and state financing. the structures of the banking union alone are not enough to achieve this, but there must be a rethinking of risk assessment in general. we must equip the european resolution authority with powers of intervention which will allow it to intervene in time and in a way that is not credible, in order to protect taxpayers and savers. we need to ensure that financial institutions have high quality and comprehensive capital and debt buffers for possible resolution situations. international requirements are an important measure of the global competitiveness of our banking sector. at the same time, the eu must ensure that its risk-based approach to banking union is properly applied and implemented. the banking union will be further specified and improved step by step. the eu commission has been obliged to carry out an audit of european banking supervision since the end of last year. we are counting on her to share our criticisms and suggestions for improvement.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we can feel what's going on in the first few minutes. it's about the debate between feelings, between fear and between facts. we shall hear from mrs le pen later. everyone is entitled to speak and everyone is entitled to listen, okay? if mrs le pen takes the floor later, she will be afraid of trade. she'll say she's against canada. she'll say she's against australia. she'll say she's against new zealand. it wants to bring about a complete blockade of france and it is frightening the people - the farmers, the workers - as we have seen. i say, these models have already been developed. in europe, there have already been countries which have completely closed themselves off, such as albania under a dictator who has completely closed all borders. le pen wants to turn france into a great albania, which is not being led into the future but which wants to isolate itself. we in the epp group believe in facts, we believe in facts. and if we look at south korea, for example, the last agreement we concluded five years ago - mrs le pen and other colleagues - led to a 55% increase in exports, 17 billion euros more exported, 14 000 new jobs created. a total of 30 million jobs in europe depend on exports. these are facts. of course, you can counter that with emotion. we, the epp, continue to believe in the facts. i would like to thank commissioner malmström for her dedicated work. that is a great deal you have presented to us today. thanks to the involvement of citizens, consumer protection organisations and trade unions, concerns have been addressed and many of them have been alleviated. i should also like to make it clear that if we cannot have talks with canada, a highly developed democratic country with which we have a partnership, and conclude these talks accordingly, with whom can we have talks at all? (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. i am afraid i must also be a bit partisan in the debate, because of course we need to know who is leading this parliament and who is leading the future of this continent. and gianni, i'm afraid i have to say that the social democratic group is deeply divided. the socialist group cannot give any guidance on how things are going in europe. half of them are for ceta, the other half are against ceta. and the greens must ask themselves very critically whether they are in good company if they are simultaneously campaigning against ceta with le pen and the communists. you have to be allowed to ask that question. i think that the greens and the consumer organisations have had a lot of important debates, but now they should also recognise that we are on the right track and that the agreement is a good agreement. the commission has already done so. one is the decision-making process. i think we have to realize that if we are to remember ceta, we need clear responsibilities in europe in the future. the debate on wallonia we as epp respect every parliament in europe, federalism and regionality are important to us. but we need clear powers in the future so that people know that when europe discusses free trade, the european parliament must be the place where ceta is voted on finally and only in the future. finally, the big picture is that we have donald trump. and donald trump has pulled out of tpp. he wants to build walls. and we as europeans want to make it clear on this day, with this vote today, that we do not want to build walls, but we want to build bridges, we want partnership. and that is why my group will vote for ceta. (applause and cheers)
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. today is a good day for europe, for canada and for the world. we are part of the world today. why are we doing this? we do this because globalization is happening. we do not want the richest, the biggest, the most unfair to decide where to go in an increasingly interconnected environment, but we want the rule of law to prevail in a world that is growing together. so it's a good day for our citizens, for europe and for the world, when liberal democracies in canada and europe shape globalization and enforce international law. but we also see that many people have concerns. they're worried about their future. they are concerned about the ever-accelerating pace of change. they are concerned about the many half-truths and falsehoods that are being made about this trade agreement. i would therefore like to make it clear once again what is and is not at issue: it is growth and employment and not lower environmental, social or consumer protection standards. it is about better market access for our small and large businesses and it is not about forcible privatisation of the municipal utilities. it is about protecting our citizens from being discriminated against abroad and it is not about limiting political decisionmaking or disempowering national courts. that is why our vote as the epp is: we say yes to ceta, because blockades on all sides produce only losers. we say yes to ceta because we want to realise the opportunities that lie ahead. we say yes to ceta because we want to finally give globalization rules. in these uncertain times, people are looking for support and guidance. it is time to give it to them, and the ceta agreement is a good building block here. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a lot to say and i would have liked to have just put my speech aside to address the arguments that have been exchanged here. but let me say again that despite your efforts, commissioner, to negotiate the major deficits of the de gucht era or to close the most serious gaps in security, the agreement still contains serious shortcomings. the logic of special rights for foreign investors remains in the isds system despite your reforms. the inclusion of negative lists, for the first time for eu free trade agreements, opens the way to further liberalisation in all sectors of the economy, including small and medium-sized enterprises. the sophisticated regulatory cooperation clauses leave the defeated right to regulate on very thin ice, precisely because ceta is agreed as a so-called living agreement. so we are still living on a construction site, despite seven years of negotiations and 1,600 pages of text. but since ceta is more than a trade agreement, and will also have a significant impact on how we produce in the future, also in terms of climate change and the necessary changes in our economic system, including industry 4.0, i can only say: it is not acceptable.
madam president, i would like to thank the millions of people all over europe and in canada who have been mobilising around this agreement. i want to say to them: you have achieved, at least, reforms, even though we think they are far from enough, and you have ensured a europe-wide debate on trade. this is a big achievement, and without you we would never have got that far. the commission and many colleagues say that the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) is a new-style agreement, but beware: it is not. it is an agreement of the very old sort. it is an agreement for putting investor rights over people’s interests, for liberalisation without end, and for harming the climate, the environment and also social standards. on transparency it is even worse than the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). and to all who think that canada is a beacon of liberalism, well, as was mentioned, ceta was not negotiated by prime minister trudeau. it was negotiated by his predecessor and by your predecessor, commissioner, mr de gucht, along with mr barroso – and if i were a social democrat i would get pretty nervous around that. but anyway, if the idea is that we like ceta because canada is nice, then we should all be aware that the commission is negotiating on many fronts, with many countries. so who are colleagues then willing to reject because they are less nice? i think we need cooperation with countries, especially with nice countries like canada, and we need to trade and not just for the maple syrup. but we need to do it differently. trade needs to be good for workers and employees, for consumers, for small-scale enterprises, for society as a whole, and not just for the super-big companies. and agreements need to set good standards, and – especially in these times – we need to work together for climate change, as this is our last chance to uphold international law because it is being challenged. all this we need and all this is not in ceta, and therefore the greens/efa group is rejecting ceta. but no matter how the vote goes today, this is only the beginning of a struggle for fair trade and good cooperation, and we are ready for it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for that question, because indeed, i do believe investors are very normal people: they need to have rights like everybody, like all of us, like everyone in europe and in canada and elsewhere. that is why investors should have exactly the same rights as people and also be able to claim those rights before the courts – courts that we can all go to, but not special courts where only investors can go, because investors have rights but they should have not have more rights than us normal people, the people in europe and in canada and elsewhere.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what has happened in recent years with ceta is unworthy of a democracy. the negotiations were secret, not even we as elected representatives were allowed to see the documents, but the lobbyists of the corporations played a big part. ceta is riddled with clauses that have nothing to do with trade but with the erosion of democracy and restrictions on labour rights. ceta requires arbitration that will cost us taxpayers billions. of course, the corporations also want the money we spend in the communities for the public services - for schools, waste management, electricity supply. ceta is further degrading our social system. so ceta is giving big money more and more power over us. stop working against the people, reject ceta! it's people before profit.
the commission has already done so. of course, the ceta agreement is not perfect. but it is we social democrats who have taken up the concerns and fears of the people here and fought for improvements. i think we have to assess this to say that this agreement is a step towards shaping globalisation. we've made sure that private arbitration is going to be the dustbin of history. we have ensured that the provision of basic services is guaranteed and that the re-communalisation is not affected by the trade agreement. we have ensured that the universal basic law for workers, the core labour standards of the international labour organisation, are anchored and also made enforceable. we have ensured that our precautionary principle is safeguarded, that no hormone meat and no gmo food will come into europe through this agreement. so this is a benchmark for all agreements, both for future agreements and for existing agreements. i think that private arbitration should also be removed from all other agreements. but i also believe that this agreement is not the end of the story. we must continue to fight for reasonable agreements. for example, to improve the enforceability of sustainability, to fight corruption, to the global sustainability goals. this must be included in future agreements. in view of the global situation, where protectionism is increasing, where the right of the stronger is increasing, we need stable rules. we cannot abolish globalization. we need to make globalization fair.
i have to say, madam president, i have followed the debate very closely and have noticed a bizarre coalition: the greens, marine le pen and gue are in agreement on ceta. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is the reality that is being portrayed here. and we know from history that these are the people who have always been against openness and free trade. we know that, and we've seen that confirmed here. and then mr jadot attacks mr trump with the same arguments that mr trump is making. so he attacks trump, but plays the trump card. you should know that. i want the enemies of free trade and the friends of protectionism to understand their arguments and to go crazy themselves.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the ceta. this is more important than ever: bilateral cooperation in the fields of culture, foreign and security policy, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the economy and tourism. we are very happy that there is a joint cooperation committee and regular consultations in the future. it is a question of common values: freedom and democracy, tolerance and the rule of law, and a clear common position against exclusion and for equal rights. i don't think these numbers are increasing at a rapid rate. so it's even more important that we work with friends who share those values. perhaps in the past, whenever we looked across the great pond, we didn't really see the canadians because there was a huge united states of america in between. no, it's time - even after the latest developments - that we stand up, that you can look past things and you can see your true friends. i look forward to this better cooperation with our friends in canada.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as vice-chairman of the delegation for relations with canada, i have followed ceta since the beginning of the negotiations. after many talks on both sides of the atlantic, it is high time to cross the finish line, and i am confident that we will do our part today. ceta is for the future. it's not just for now and for us. we must position ourselves as the european union, as europeans in a changing world. we want to make that change, and there's not much else we can do but finally act. this is a sign that we can do it. but we should not pretend that investment arbitration does not exist. no, they already exist. let us not close our eyes to the reality that ceta will improve this system. i appreciate that. finally, i find it very surprising that in this political situation the right and the left are using exactly the same arguments and still think they are both right.
i have to say, madam president, we are talking about ceta today. however, some are using this to wage proxy war against the effects of globalization. that is a pity, because ceta is a well-negotiated trade agreement between two partners who share the same values. it is therefore extremely unfair to focus on the ceta procedure now, when the consequences of globalisation can indeed be viewed quite critically and we can certainly think about how to mitigate them. globalization is happening whether we like it or not. so we have to shape it as best we can. that is what i think is happening with ceta. i would also like to thank our canadian friends in particular for their willingness to reopen negotiations on one part of the matter, namely the area of international commercial arbitration, even after the negotiations have been concluded. it wasn't a given. and as the head of the eu-canada delegation, i am particularly grateful for that.
i have to say, madam president, the ceta opponents have tried to persuade us that canada, with its 36 million inhabitants, is an existential threat to the european union. a country where the queen is the head of state, where french is spoken, where the state pays for medicine, where there is a social liberal government that generously welcomes refugees. what a load of crap. if we as europeans fail to reach an agreement with that country, we can immediately end all other negotiations. i want to make it clear that i have also read the green party's open letter by reinhard bütikofer and his colleagues. i think it is both unhistorical and hypocritical to say that right-wing isolationism like marine le pen or donald trump is bad, while left-wing isolationism like attac or verdi is great. right-wing nationalism like ukip is bad, left-wing nationalism like jean-luc mélenchon is good. there's also no difference between right-wing alternative facts from donald trump and left-wing alternative facts from the left party and others. both are lies. let us agree to this agreement! the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i shall be voting for the ceta agreement today. i come from a region with a high export value, the state of hesse, which is frankfurt and its surroundings. we have a strong interest in trade with canada also improving, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, which have so far had difficulty establishing a foothold in this country. i am always surprised at the strange constellations of objections to this agreement. in germany, from sahra wagenknecht to the afd chairman, from donald trump to mélenchon, from marine le pen to some german social democrats, i am extremely sorry to say this. i therefore hope that this agreement will be the beginning of a new generation of progressive free trade agreements which can serve as a model for future agreements. i therefore ask you all to support this agreement.
rapporteur. – mr president, dear colleagues, i want to draw your attention to the forthcoming file, the partnership agreement with mongolia, which has been negotiated and concluded, and finally today we can give consent to this agreement. unfortunately, we did not have the chance to discuss the content, and i want to draw your attention in particular to the fact that we need the opening of a representation of the european union in mongolia to accompany the future cooperation and political, economic and cultural relationship with this important country in asia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would just like to point out that a qualified majority is required to reject the proposal. that is why equality of votes is still far from the qualified majority and why there is no point in discussing it now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against ceta because it is an agreement that really attacks our democratic roots. ceta is the first agreement in a whole series of agreements, such as tisa, which are actually designed to introduce the neoliberal economic model in the eu. we shall be voting on tisa very soon in this house. the same principles are at work here, the principles of liberal economic philosophy. it is about deregulation, which means reducing the influence of the state, curbing the economy, reducing social services and privatising public services. this is a serious challenge to our democratic principles. that is why i voted against ceta.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as a member of parliament from the ruhr region, i have responsibility for a region which is still the industrial heart of germany. we are proud in this region that there is still a high level of employment with industry. this high level of industrial employment has proved its worth in the past, because it has strengthened the german economy's resilience to crises. i have in the past been faced with great concerns from works councils and trade unions in the decision we have taken on the reform of the emissions trading system. i have taken these concerns very seriously in my voting today, because we are concerned with ensuring the predictability of future investment and thus the security of jobs in our region. i am clear: climate protection and the protection of industrial jobs must go hand in hand - they are not opposed - and that is how i acted in the votes today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am glad that we can have a debate here today in the european parliament on the fight against terrorism, with a focus on the criminal law directive and the anti-terrorism directive. the attacks of the past months, of the past two years, have shocked us immensely within the european union. many people have been killed, many have been injured, many are affected. and for us in the european union, it was not easy to understand that we were now the target of international terrorism. i am therefore particularly pleased that the directive has been able to incorporate in a meaningful way the main issues of the modern and new international standards set by the un and the fatf on the financing of terrorist networks. on the one hand, it is a matter of transferring what we had in the framework decisions of the ministers of the interior, even before we had the opportunity to participate as co-decision-makers, as the european parliament. this had to be translated into a directive. on the other hand, it is also about tackling the new challenges. and one of those new challenges is the issue of training terrorists, so whether you're the organizer, the facilitator, or the financier, or someone who actually gets trained for terrorist attacks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. there was also the discussion: what does glorification mean? glorification just look at the aftermath of bataclan, how the internet has been portrayed by the propaganda machine of isis. the glorification of the perpetrators and the call of a concrete kind to follow these perpetrators to commit similar glorious acts. that is to say, the attempt to radicalize young people and to recruit them for criminal and terrorist purposes. another focus is on terrorist financing. another focus is on aiding and abetting terrorist offences. we have achieved something special in this respect, and i would like to thank my co-rapporteurs, you, dear caterina chinnici, and my colleague, mr petr ježek, for this. i would like to thank mrs monica macovei and, in a critical debate, cornelia ernst and mrs joly, because we have really tried to define the subject of the obligation to exchange information. for the first time, the member states have undertaken to exchange information. but we also strengthened the rights of victims. i would like to thank in particular my colleague, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio, and also the maite, who are particularly committed to ensuring that the rights of victims are seen. they are victims because terrorists are attacking our values and our state. and that means, in effect, that we have to give victims better rights. this is what this directive has achieved. we have also succeeded in striking a good balance between security on the one hand and strict respect for fundamental rights, because security cannot exist without fundamental rights. security serves and must be guided by fundamental rights. that is why the charter of fundamental rights is explicitly mentioned in article 23, and the freedom of expression and the press is explicitly mentioned. the commission has also made it clear that it is possible to express one's views in a polemical or radical manner. this has nothing to do with propaganda, this has nothing to do with glorification, this is simply freedom of speech and nothing else. i think we've struck a very good balance here. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have been willing to work so hard and constructively here. i thank the commission for the excellent cooperation and for the willingness to always contribute with new ideas and support, and i thank the council, the slovak presidency, for the very constructive attitude.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in hungary, syrian ahmed was recently sentenced to ten years in prison for taking part in protests against the closure of the border. he was convicted as a terrorist because that is what the hungarian anti-terrorism laws say. except he's not a terrorist. he demonstrated. these laws have been repeatedly criticized by the european court of human rights for their vague and overly broad definitions. i ask you: is the directive changing anything substantial about that? no, i don't think he did. the definition of terrorism in the directive remains unclear. on the contrary, one has to ask how safe protesters dissidents can still exercise their rights. the prosecution of the glorification of terrorism is also a noble goal, and i can understand that. but the link to an actual act of terror is far too weak. on the paragraph about travelling for criminal purposes, i can understand you, i know what you mean. but we're really on thin ice, because the difference between criminal and legal action is the terrorist intent alone, and that's hard to determine. of course, terrorism must be fought. we agree. we need a complex approach. it starts with a reasonable training for police and justice. better coordination between authorities, serious programmes for the protection of victims and those who have left the institution, prevention and education from school. the problems and solutions are not in criminal law alone. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. that's not the question. for example, a person who throws stones must be condemned for what he does. that's not even the question. you can talk about it. my question was another one that needs to be answered. is this man a terrorist? and i said no. but the hungarian laws allow it because the definition of terrorism is incredibly broad. as i said, the court of justice has also criticised this on several occasions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the good of this directive is obvious. we are harmonising the criminal record in the fight against terrorism, providing better protection for victims of attacks, and ensuring that the exchange of information and, above all, the fight against the financing of terrorism is improved. but this directive goes beyond the objective in terms of results. the problem is that we are creating new crime patterns which do not exist in many eu countries. the ones that are unclear, for example, when it comes to travel within the european union or when it comes to the fact that the possibility of significant economic damage already opens up the definition of terrorism. the real problem is that we don't really prosecute the terrorist crimes that already exist. so instead of creating new facts, we should focus on improving better cooperation in europe, for example by investigating teams at europol and by better equipping police to prosecute these crimes. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i simply wanted to ask my colleagues: what do you mean by new crime figures? do you really want someone to be able to go to syria and train in a terrorist camp, commit crimes there, come back here and plan an attack, without us arresting the person before the attack, bringing him to court accordingly, and then judges can decide how to convict that person?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking, monika! the problem is not that we do not already prosecute crimes in the area of preparing terrorist attacks, such as when someone travels to a terrorist camp and returns with the intention of committing an attack. that's already being punished today. the problem here is that even travel within the european union is punishable, and to my knowledge there are no such terrorist camps within the european union yet. i think it is only fair to say that freedom of movement within the european union should not be questioned in this way.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the security situation has deteriorated dramatically in recent years and we must not stop at criminal records. the constant threat is actually forcing us to think about how we can do this better, to put the police and the security services more centrally. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere speculator. that's why counterterrorism must be one of the priorities. that is why the report that monika hohlmeier has drawn up here is an important instrument in this respect. we should also try to prevent the attacks in paris, brussels, nice and berlin. that is why we should be able to better filter out terrorist networks foreign fighters, individual perpetrators. the data analysis also offers better and better solutions without always immediately calling for the erosion of fundamental rights by the evil state. but data protection must go beyond the protection of life. what we need, in my view, is to strengthen and equip frontex in terms of both personnel and material, something we have already started. we need smart borders to regulate entry and exit, we need to implement pnr, we need to network the police intelligence databases of all eu countries, access to eurodac, implement prüm with regard to the databases on dna, fingerprints, etc., motor vehicles, register matching, ecris and the strengthening of the counter-terrorism system, as well as high standards for gun safety.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this debate. i would like to say first that i agree with all of those who have underlined the importance of working on the causes of terrorism and, in particular, the need to tackle radicalisation in our communities. second, i agree that we need a range of measures to tackle terrorism, some of which fall outside the scope of this directive. but i do hope, and i urge you, to support this directive because it transposes the provisions that were set out in the recently-passed unscr, provisions of the council of europe and the provisions of the financial action task force based at the oecd. it reinforces information exchange and it strengthens victim support. third, i think we have all agreed that terrorists do not just target one member state or another, they target our way of life and our values, and the commission stands second to no-one in its support for fundamental rights, including the freedom of expression, which is an essential foundation of our society. those rights are enshrined in the charter and the charter will steer the implementation of this directive. we, the commission, will report on the implementation of the directive and that report will in particular assess the directive’s impact on fundamental rights. lastly, our response, as many speakers have underlined, needs to be comprehensive and sustainable. it needs to build on trust and effective cooperation between these institutions and our member states. from the commission’s side we will continue to focus on strengthening the fight against terrorism by depriving terrorists of the means they use to commit their attacks and by enhancing our defences and building our resilience, and we shall continue to maintain the closest possible engagement with you, with this house, as we take that work forward.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank very, very warmly the many very constructive and excellent contributions from colleagues who support the directive. i would like to ask the critics to read the text carefully. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the directive explicitly provides for a precise definition of terrorist acts, such as the hijacking of an aircraft, such as the poisoning of water installations, such as the possession of nuclear or radiological material with the aim of committing a terrorist attack. so, the definitions are very, very clear and not vague. they must be transposed into national law accordingly. secondly, when travelling within the eu, the investigating authorities must provide evidence that someone is actually planning a terrorist act. only then can the person be investigated accordingly. and it doesn't matter if he comes from syria or if he travels from brussels to paris or from düsseldorf to paris. we must stop the perpetrators before they commit an attack, and not then mourn the dead and the injured. we have to stop it from happening in the first place. the presumption of innocence and the guarantees of fundamental rights are also very precisely set out in article 23. the presumption of innocence must not be restricted, procedural rights must be guaranteed, fundamental rights must be respected, freedom of expression and of the press is a fundamental right and is explicitly mentioned. that is why we are not giving up fundamental rights, but we are protecting these fundamental rights even from terrorists who do not want you to have such fundamental rights. they are fighting against our western values, they are fighting against our european values. we are fighting to ensure that we can uphold these european values and that they are not destroyed by terrorists. this directive is the legal instrument for that purpose.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this debate which i will give a full account of to my colleague commissioner avramopoulos, who regrets that he cannot be with us this afternoon. thank you also for the work that has been done on this proposal, which i agree has been strengthened by those discussions. as we heard in the previous discussion, security is one of the major concerns of our citizens and we believe that the reinforcement of checks against relevant databases will reinforce our external borders and strengthen our knowledge about who enters and leaves our shared space, and that can have an impact. i have seen myself at charles de gaulle airport, where they already implement the systematic checks, the impact that that can have in terms of the increased knowledge about people who are arriving and, in a significant number of cases there, the controls that they were able to conduct as a result of that knowledge. we are not, in these proposals, creating new databases. this is about checks against the relevant specified databases. but i do agree completely with those who have underlined how important it is that those databases are properly used and properly supplied by the member states, in particular, the most important and significant of these databases, i believe, the schengen information system; which is precisely why, in the proposals that the commission brought forward in december, which you are going to be discussing, we have made a number of suggestions for strengthening the schengen information system and, for the first time, we are proposing the introduction of an obligation on member states to share information with that system regarding terrorism. i hope that you will support that. i agree that we need borders that are not just resilient but also functioning and that is why, as a number of speakers have underlined, there are elements of flexibility that are included in these proposals and those depend on risk assessment. so i hope you will support those elements of the proposal as well. we do need to be very careful about effective implementation; on this, as on all of the issues relating to this area of the security union. that is why i am glad that the commission has undertaken to present an evaluation on the implementation of these proposals to parliament within two years following the entry into force of the regulation.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, strengthening the exchange of information is one of the measures which were agreed by the council as a response to the terrorist attacks in paris and brussels. besides the enormous importance of collecting information, it is equally important to join up the dots and make the best use of the information. last june, the need to address the issue led the council to endorse a roadmap on information exchange and information management in the justice and home affairs area, including interoperability solutions. the roadmap contains no less than 50 practical short and medium—term actions and long—term orientations. the implementation of those actions is monitored by the standing committee on operational cooperation on internal security. the essence of the roadmap is to make sure that the practitioners have access to the information they need. it provides a coherent framework for a more integrated eu information architecture in the justice and home affairs area. this must obviously happen in full respect of fundamental rights and data protection rules. improving information exchange and implementing the roadmap has been a priority of the previous presidencies and it continues to be a priority for our presidency. i believe that, based on available statistics, it is fair to say that there has been substantive progress in increasing the information exchange, both among the member states and with europol, over the past year. let me give you some figures to demonstrate this point. for instance, in the third quarter of 2016, more than 200 000 messages were exchanged via the secure information exchange network application amongst the member states, and between the member states and europol. this is an increase of 16% compared to the same quarter of the year before, 2015. regarding new cases, nearly 11 000 new cases were initiated via the same network application in the third quarter of 2016, which amounts to an increase of 6% compared to 2015. as regards the use of europol’s databases, both the input of data and the number of searches in the europol information system substantially increased in 2016. the number of searches conducted in this database even set a new record in the third quarter of last year, reaching more than one million searches for the first time. i am aware of the fact that using the existing tools is only one part of the process. the implementation of many of the actions of the roadmap and achieving interoperability of information systems will require certain legislative changes. important work in this direction is ongoing in the high—level expert group which the commission set up last april and in which the european parliament participates. once the group’s report is presented to parliament and the council in april, our common role as co-legislators will be crucial when addressing some of the challenges ahead. regarding the various legal instruments, i would like to make the following points. regarding the exchange of information on terrorism offences, the council, throughout the negotiations last year on the counter—terrorism directive, was actively engaged in seeking a compromise with parliament on strengthening the exchange of information. i am glad that parliament has just had a debate on the directive and will vote on it tomorrow. i would like once again to thank ms hohlmeier and her colleagues for their work on the directive. the directive will strengthen the european union’s legal framework to prevent terrorist attacks, notably by criminalising acts such as training or travelling for terrorist purposes, and it also reinforces the rights of the victims. this morning we had the opportunity to address the media, together with the rapporteur and commissioner king, on the expectation that tomorrow’s vote on this directive would now pave the way to its adoption. the political agreement on the directive envisages that member states will be obliged to exchange relevant information gathered in criminal proceedings wherever such information could be used in the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution of terrorist offences, and irrespective of whether there has been a request to that effect. to ensure better compliance by member states, an explicit obligation for the receiving competent authorities to take active follow-up measures on such information is also introduced. at the same time parliament, the council and the commission agreed that to ensure efficient and timely exchange of information on terrorism, measures in a broader policy context are necessary. in a joint statement the three institutions underlined the necessity of making full use of all the existing union instruments, channels and agencies to exchange information. a swift implementation of all adopted union legislation in this field is key. madam president, i will stop here – though i can see that in the time that i have been addressing the house, it is no longer madam president but mr president – and i now look forward to listening to your debate in the house and responding later.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss this question of eu law enforcement information exchange. forgive me in advance if some of this gets a bit technical. i know that there are many experts here who can match, indeed far exceed, my technical expertise. eu member states are in the front line for dealing with many of these issues to do with tackling terrorism, security, and law enforcement. but we can, and should, do all we can at the eu level to help and assist and support eu member states and eu member states’ agencies. information sharing is a key part of that, as we all recognise, and indeed the member states and their agencies recognise. unfortunately, and we have already talked about this in earlier discussions this afternoon, some of the recent attacks have shown some weaknesses in the way that information is currently being shared across the european union and, more generally, in the way that some of these systems are operating currently, including how they operate with each other. the commission has consistently called on member states to exploit fully the potential of the existing information systems at eu level. and we work to support the member states in doing this with funding, expertise and by getting them to share best practice. as i have said on several occasions before this house, eu instruments can only bring added value on the ground, if and when they are fully implemented by the member states and applied in practice. this is why a key aspect of our work towards an effective and sustainable security union is better application and implementation of existing eu instruments. it is one of the pillars of our work towards a stronger and smarter set of information systems and greater interoperability; it is a key part of the work of the high-level expert group to assess various options and make recommendations to that end. the commission assists member states in every possible way to ensure the proper implementation of our agreements, but where necessary we do not shy away from enforcing the law, including the use of infringement procedures. let me turn to some of the key instruments and give you a brief update on where we stand in terms of their implementation and their use. the main instrument, we have already touched upon it earlier this afternoon, that i am going to address, is the schengen information system (sis). it is the most widely used information-sharing system in europe and i believe it is a real operational success, thanks in part to our collective – and i include very much the work of the parliament here – support and work to raise awareness. there is a clear upward trend in the way member states are using the sis. to take just one example, there has been a significant increase in checks by, and involvement of member state security services with this system. an 800% increase in the discreet and specific check alerts issued by those services over the last two years. so i believe we are moving in the right direction, but there is still a long way to go. we need to make technical and operational improvements to the sis if it is to become more effective and efficient, as we all want. that is why, as i have just said in finishing the last debate, in december, the commission presented a set of proposals to improve the technical functioning of sis, to streamline national processes and to strengthen data protection by introducing additional safeguards. in doing so, we propose to turn the current council decisions on the sis – which are pre-lisbon instruments and part of the so-called former third pillar – into regulations to be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedures. from the various improvements tabled i would highlight one in particular: for the first time, we propose to make it obligatory for member states to issue alerts in sis for persons related to terrorist offences. i hope you will support that and we stand ready to examine whether such mandatory obligations for information-sharing could/should be introduced for other eu databases. it is important that the co-legislators work together for the swift adoption of these proposed measures. in parallel we are continuing to work with the member states to ensure the full implementation and effective use of all of our information exchange tools. one well-known tool is the prüm framework for exchanging data regarding dna, fingerprints and vehicle registration, and for enhancing cross-border cooperation against crime and terrorism. we are focused on getting to full implementation of this system, which, as you know, was agreed some years ago. despite all the efforts we have made collectively there are five member states that still do not comply with the requirements of the prüm decision. that is why, for the first time in relation to a former third-pillar instrument, infringement proceedings were launched in september last year. all five member states have responded; we are looking at their replies and, in the light of those, we will need to take a decision on next steps. we have also got the high-level expert working group looking into the challenge of strengthening and improving the functioning of prüm cooperation. another instrument that i want to pause on is the council framework decision referred to as ‘the swedish initiative’, well known to you here. it provides a common legal framework for the effective and expeditious exchange of information and criminal intelligence between member states’ law enforcement authorities. now good progress has been made, and only one member state has not notified transposition. but some member states use the swedish framework decision more extensively than others – to put it politely – and overall there remains room for improvement. that is why the commission is currently looking at the member states’ use of the swedish initiative and why we plan to launch a compliance study to look into this in more detail. it will help us to determine what is needed to ensure a better use of this important instrument. the last instrument i want to pause on is council decision 2005/671 on the exchange of information on terrorist offences. this legislation, again well-known to you, requires member states to designate contact points with responsibility for sending information on terrorist offences to europol and eurojust. it defines a minimum base for what types of information should be shared with the two agencies. it requires member states to transmit information on terrorist offences to eurojust, europol and other member states concerned, unless this would jeopardise ongoing investigations. information sharing with europol and eurojust has increased significantly over the last year. for instance, the number of foreign terrorist fighters communicated to europol and entered into its europol information system increased from 3 740 entries in december 2015 to 7 884 entries in december 2016. the volume of data concerning foreign terrorist fighters shared with europol’s focal point travellers – europol’s specialist team of analysts and experts who work on analysing information around foreign terrorist fighters – increased almost threefold over the course of 2016. now i take this progress to be encouraging, but the level of engagement still differs between different member states. the obligations in the council decision will be strengthened through the directive on combating terrorism which you are voting on tomorrow. thanks to the work of the parliament, the directive will make the exchange of information mandatory and include an obligation for the receiving member state to take appropriate action when they get information. finally, let me say a few words about our work on information systems and interoperability and the preparatory work at senior officials level that is currently being done by the high-level expert group. president juncker’s state of the union address in september and the european council conclusions of december, refer to the importance of overcoming the current shortcomings in information management and improving the interoperability and interconnection between existing information systems. to accelerate the work of the high-level expert group, the chairman presented an interim report last december. we discussed the findings with some of you in the libe committee in january and i look forward to continuing a discussion on this important subject. today i would just like briefly to refer to the interim report’s recommendations. first, the group suggests ways to improve data quality in eu information systems. the commission welcomes this, as information systems are really only as effective as the quality of the data they hold and we intend to pursue the proposals put forward by the group. second, the group proposes to look at a european portal capable of searching simultaneously all relevant eu databases to which the person conducting the search has access rights. again this would seek to make better use of existing systems in full compliance with existing rules on access, the use of data and data protection rules. i think it is a good suggestion which i commend to you. more generally the process we initiated last year with a strategy presented in april, the setting-up of the high-level expert group, allows us to address shortcomings in the eu information systems in an inclusive and transparent way. the high-level expert group will present its final report later this spring, and, on this basis, the commission will consider if, and if so what, further measures might increase the effectiveness and help address the current security threats. any proposals – i think it goes without saying – for amending the existing legal framework will of course need to be taken forward with you in the normal way. on that and indeed all of these issues to do with information exchange, i look forward to continuing the close dialogue that we have between the commission and the parliament because these subjects merit it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, dear presidency of the council! i would like to thank you for your very detailed replies. i would like to ask a few critical questions, however. first of all, i think it is very good that we are talking about replacing the pre-lisbon instruments, because since the lisbon treaty we have had co-determination in the european parliament on these matters. the terrorism directive which we are going to adopt tomorrow must be followed by other legal instruments for its implementation. we are having a very strong and justified discussion on the subject of terrorism. however, we also have other forms of serious international crime - in particular organised crime - which sometimes co-operate with terrorist networks, mutually support each other and thus sometimes develop forms that threaten the state. i think it is particularly important, first of all, to ensure that all member states actually receive information, that the information is analysed - first at national level, then at european level - and that we devote significantly more manpower and technical equipment to the analysis of information, because it is precisely the analysis of information that helps us prevent serious crime, not just the mere collection of information. secondly, i think it is very important that we also ensure that data is entered into the sis. we've been talking about it for years now, and there are still some who don't eat it. i can't believe it! but slowly, the last one should have understood. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and there it is . most recent terrorist attacks have shown that this is precisely what is missing. some suspects have been suspected for a long time, then arrested, released for lack of evidence, only to turn up at the crime scenes. the necessary data exchange - we know this - does not work in the front and in the back. i wonder why someone in one eu country is known as a terrorist suspect and the other neighbouring country doesn't know that. that leaves three options: either - and you said so yourself, mr king - the member states are not implementing eu law correctly, or the information being exchanged is wrong, or both. this is precisely why we need a comprehensive qualitative evaluation of the existing instruments in the member states as well. and it's not about building more databases, collecting more data, but about getting a targeted exchange. that is the only way forward and that is what we are asking for.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner king, it is exactly what you have outlined here: the better use of the existing infrastructure that we have in place, especially when it comes to the europol information system, the schengen information system, and those databases which we already have in place for the exchange of information on risks and on suspects. that is what we have to improve and i really appreciate that you are taking this on your agenda and i would really see that member states are supporting you in making better use of these systems. because what we have been talking about for years is very often the wrong way, to say that the systems are too few, that there should be more systems in place, that there should be more pots of data in place, because we have just been saying that more data would do the trick. but the point is that very often we have the data, as has been said often in this debate, and it is not being used. one case we saw recently was the berlin attacker who was very well known to the intelligence services in germany at least, and who, even after this attack in berlin, was fleeing through some member states, even france which is in a state of emergency, with a weapon in his hand, and i think that shows very much that we have to divert away from spending big money into new systems, rather than investing, and that should be our focus in the cooperation between the police authorities, for example in the field of joint investigation teams with europol.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of technical regulations for the protection of workers against the risks of accidents. but robotics and artificial intelligence are not science fiction anymore, they're happening, and they're already among us. there are robots below us. the question of what rules are needed, above all in terms of liability, above all in terms of safety standards, is one which we must now answer. i am a little surprised at the european commission's reluctance to point out the problems and the complexity of the issues. we believe that, particularly when it comes to liability issues, to the question of responsibility, that behind every decision of a robot or an intelligent machine there must of course be a natural or legal person, that there must be no liability gaps and that we must require impact assessments, technology impact assessments, that we must also require that there is a framework for this, such as the precautionary principle to be firmly anchored in this issue. these are important regulatory areas that need to be addressed now. and there is also the question of safety standards, for example, liability for lack of standards. if someone hacks into the intelligent self-driving car and it's on the highway at 70, 80 things, braking down to zero, then that's a problem we have today. and that's what we need to find answers to now.
i am not going to go into detail. do you know what this is? yeah, a novel for pennies on the dollar. do you know what this is? the delvaux report on robotics. the difference is, none! except for the fact that the latter is made to become law. i am not just talking about the rules of behaviour for robots that my colleague copied from a science fiction novel. no, much worse is your proposal for a legal personality for robots, even though you keep denying it. this is a bioethical no-go. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the matter. it's nothing more than a personality right for robots. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support our amendments nos 4 to 8. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, of course they are robots. but there are passages in it that clearly say otherwise. i think that these are gaps which we must close, so that some car does not become a legal entity and the manufacturer is not held liable for this. that's exactly what we're trying to avoid. this does not mean that the whole report is called into question. but there are passages that just need to be corrected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the rapporteur, mrs mady delvaux, for this legislative own-initiative report on this very important subject of robotics and artificial intelligence. i would also like to thank our rapporteur, therese comodini cachia, for her commitment and hard work, which we believe has made this report even better. how can competition principles be safeguarded in the new digital world? a systematic look at business models and infrastructure actually shows where the social market economy is at risk. we also need to accept that human skills are increasingly being replaced by algorithms and that our legal system is simply not prepared to deal with the increasingly fragmented nature of this area. of course, i don't like the idea of robots in the future making judgments. however, we cannot close ourselves off to this change of times. the digitisation is progressing at a rapid pace here, and we must respond to it. in fact, europe is waiting for regulation, while other regions of the world have been on the fast track for a long time. new challenges also bring new opportunities, and we believe that people, our citizens, must be at the centre of development. to do this, we need the security of our data, the security of our infrastructure, the security of our ideas, and a competitive economy that continues to provide jobs that, in turn, allow individuals to live with dignity. that is why we do not need to discuss all the issues of a basic income, which is a difficult subject for us to discuss.
thank you. thank you. i am sorry, but for time reasons i cannot give the floor to all those who have come forward. there are still some who have volunteered, but i ask for your understanding that it is simply not possible. we must also move forward with our agenda. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. robotics, the digital interconnection of man and machine, will bring new levels of automation and thus a change in the world of work. for this we need comprehensive analyses of employment trends. they should describe how digitisation affects the world of work in both quantitative and qualitative terms. the existing standards must be transposed to the digitalised world of work and new forms of work. these include: social security, working time, participation and protection at work, freedom of association, further development of data protection for employees. both in the area of data protection and health protection, the robot-human relationship must be taken into account. the rapid development of technical equipment and its possibilities also makes it necessary for lifelong learning to become a central element of digitalisation. there must be a right to continuing training for workers to ensure that people can keep up with the demands of the job. finally, the rules on the liability of robots must also be adapted. the regular involvement of the social partners is essential in the adaptation of the regulatory framework for robotics and the digital economy.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the commission's agreement to the revised german road toll plan (2017/2526 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. good to see you there. i also thank the commissioner for her presentation. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as the representative of the european commission, you are the guardian of the treaties. i know i'm saying that you're not okay with all this, that you're here today. but you must now represent what has been finally put in place at the top level between mr juncker and mrs merkel in order to smoke a peace pipe within the german government, within the cdu and the csu, and to clear away at least one problematic area, namely the foreigners' toll. however, commissioner, the questions that mrs schmidt has just asked are still on the table. i would remind you that we had several talks at the beginning of this period, when this proposal was on the table. we have discussed all these components and we have concluded that they will not contribute to bringing the whole thing, which started as a foreigners' fee from the csu, into line with european law. it is still the case that you have just also admitted that there will be no one-to-one compensation for german motorists. and you continue to admit that ultimately it has to be in line with the user and polluter principle. i wonder where this proposal fits into the principle of user and polluter. and i would also like to ask you, commissioner, what has the european commission received in return? is it true that the european commission has bought, or at least bought, the federal republic of germany's approval of eets legislation? is that right? - yes or no? and also, tell me quite frankly: why did this statement or at least this deal take place in the very week in which the csu party congress was held in bavaria? all this stinks to high heaven, and that is why this foreigners' toll is for various reasons and also for that reason not in accordance with european law.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i have an article here, you can't see it down there, of course. but it says, "together against the toll". this is an article from lower saxony and the netherlands in the border area. the fact is that our state government - i come from this part of germany - is totally against the introduction of this toll. the fact is that we have a euregio region right on the border with the netherlands. it has been deliberately set up to operate cross-border. there are many people who live in the netherlands and work in lower saxony. we have more jobs in lower saxony, so there are more people to fill them. this is going to be a massive underdog. there is too little public transport, you have to rely on the car, and that means that some people pay and others do not. it is also true that the german toll, if you have an environmentally friendly car - which is not bad in principle, euro 6 - that you can even earn money on the toll. mr dobrindt says today that the germans are not paying any more. i mean, who's gonna pay for this? the question, of course, from a german point of view is: is there enough income at all? isn't this a zero-sum game? but we must discuss this in germany. in general, i think that the principle of user pays, polluter pays is of course a good one. it would be best if we had no car tax at all, everywhere in all european countries, and you only paid when you drove. that would be the fairest and best thing. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the tax on motor vehicles. only what we have on the table now is not really a good blueprint. and lastly, it's not mileage-based, it's not like you pay for every mile. there are also different sections month and so on. that's not what we need, and it's way too bureaucratic.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the car toll for foreigners is not a first. in 1990, the then minister of transport, zimmermann, wanted to introduce the truck toll and reduce the vehicle tax on trucks. has the commission said no? in 1992 the european court of justice said: 'this is anti-european. that's how it was buried. in 2004, the then german government wanted to try the same thing. the commission has said that this is anti-european. it was introduced anyway. now comes alexander dobrindt with his third attempt. i always say, "mistakes are the way to wisdom". but for alexander dobrindt, two was not enough. why is that? the toll is pro-european, it prevents cross-border traffic. it costs money. only the foreigners pay, not the germans. i can't do that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european parliament has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this has nothing whatsoever to do with the user and polluter pays principle. that is why this must be stopped, and i cannot understand why the commission said at the beginning that this was anti-european and then, after juncker met the csu in bavaria - by the way, without mentioning the commissioner - that everything should be legal. i can't do that. the bundestag has yet to decide. but if he decides to do so, then i think, because this is anti-social, not only the spd but also the csu should drop the s from the name, because this is totally anti-social.
the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is not in a position to give us a reply. the planned toll road is a prestigious object of a german minister. this is the very man who would have liked to have thrown greece out of the euro years ago. his german regional party, the csu, is not known to have much of an opinion on german integration. moreover, the toll is likely to end up costing the public sector more than it brings in. all the calculations so far confirm this. the whole thing is a bad campaign gag, and it's also a national egoism. commissioner, please explain to us in a credible manner what convinced you overnight that the foreigners' toll, as it is called everywhere in germany, is suddenly in line with eu law and that it is also perceived as non-discriminatory. because it's about this signal, too. should germany be the one to demand entry when crossing the border? we were going to open the borders in europe, weren't we? my colleague from bavaria, ertug, has already mentioned the most important questions. we're waiting for an answer.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i cannot understand the excitement about the introduction of the german car toll. firstly, there are toll systems in many european member states, so we can introduce a toll system in germany. secondly, what we are doing in germany with tolls is exactly what the commission and parliament have always said about financing infrastructure at european level, namely that the user pays. thirdly, the amount of the toll. this is based on the emission of pollutants. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this decision. and now for the alleged discrimination. i cannot see it, and the commissioner has rightly said that every user of our german motorways will have to pay in future, and i emphasize that every user, regardless of his nationality. the question of taxation has also been raised. the reduction of motor vehicle tax is a matter for the member states. in austria, there is also a commuter flat-rate. the commission has also proposed a tax credit for drivers travelling in austria. it's all right. we're fine with that, too. i would like to say one last thing to our austrian friends. ladies and gentlemen, when i go from munich to bolzano at the weekend, i pay just under 40 euros for road use. i have to pay for the austrian ten-day vignette, i have to pay for the european bridge, i have to pay for the italian toll. so if i compare that to our 10-day vignette, which costs from $2.50 to a maximum of $20, it's almost a bargain. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs niebler, do you know of any country in europe that has introduced a toll which only foreigners pay? i don't know that. that's the main principle. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted. this is double discrimination. we can't let that happen. this is anti-european and you are throwing the red carpet at those who are against europe. they finally have a reason to be anti-european again. that's why we have to fight it.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. come down and leave the church in the village. all i can say is, you don't want to understand. they just don't want to understand. every motorist who drives on german roads will pay the toll, no matter what his nationality. so every austrian, every swede, every german will pay the toll in future when it is introduced. i see no discrimination in that. tax relief has also been provided for the introduction of other toll systems. when the truck toll was introduced in the uk, the tax on trucks was naturally reduced. so, you're making a mountain out of a molehill. i would like to emphasize once again that road tolls exist in almost all european countries and i think that we germans have the right to introduce them too. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their decisions. the commissioner has announced today and has already suggested on several occasions that we should also think about european solutions. but again, the fact is that we have road tolls in many european countries, and in over 20 countries, there are different types of surveys. and in that sense it is fair for germany to introduce these. it has been thoroughly examined, corrections have been made, and the procedure in germany has not yet been completed. i can only say that i do not see any discrimination in our german toll. if you think so, then please take the matter to the european court of justice and we will have some certainty as to the form in which road tolls can be levied in europe. but i 'll say this: our toll ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. do you know pippi longstocking? i make the world the way i want it. our german pippi is called alexander dobrindt. his biggest joke: the toll, created as an election campaign idea at the bavarian table, maybe after four or five beers, when dobrindt was still general secretary and a csu goon. a year later, he's the minister of transport and responsible. he has distorted the illegal idea of origin to the point of being unrecognizable. in the end, juncker said yes to the agreement among friends, without any legal basis. it was a yes for the minus-toll. i am grateful to mr dobrindt for the work we germans are doing on a toll which is disrespectful to our neighbours, which is disadvantageous to families and which, according to adac, is costing us 250 million euros. one down, yeah! i can't explain that to a civilian. that is why i would ask all those colleagues who have just spoken of a lawsuit: please sue! you're saving us germans a lot of nonsense and hundreds of millions of euros. better still, let us show solidarity and fight together in parliament for a europe without customs duties!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a german member of parliament, i represent the citizens living in the border region with the netherlands. europe does not come alive here in the european parliament, but on the ground, where people live together across national borders. the plans for tolls by the german csu transport minister are making europe more unfair and less open. i am opposed to this on grounds of conviction, as are most of my colleagues. for people in the border region, driving across the border is the most normal thing in the world. cross-border networks in this region, such as the ems-dollart region or the euregio, show the deep interconnectedness of german-dutch relations. my constituency benefits enormously from a europe of free movement and from the non-discriminatory use of the road between the netherlands and germany. i consider the toll to be a brake on the economy, as it makes it less attractive to drive across the border, to go shopping or to take a weekend trip. the toll will also affect jobs and discriminate against foreigners as against german citizens - even if my colleague from the csu does not see it that way.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have often discussed in this chamber that the european union is in a difficult situation. i'm afraid that's not news. but i think we have a treasure in our hands with cohesion policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report by mr van nistelrooij gives us an opportunity to look at the current state of cohesion policy and the needs that arise for us, and how we can and must respond to future challenges. one thing we all know: we must be very careful with cohesion policy, with the tax money at our disposal. i believe that parliament has done this by negotiating the legal framework and by substantially reforming cohesion policy. we have insisted on the need to implement results orientation together with the commission. we have said that we want to concentrate the money we have on a few priorities. we have insisted that the local partners be involved in all the work. the operational programmes have now been installed and project work is beginning. but we also have to be careful to communicate carefully. how often do local citizens not know that the european union is funding many projects in their immediate neighbourhood? we must talk about it if we want the citizens to support the added value that the european union brings to their disposal. how many of the many young people whom we have given jobs and skills through our youth initiative know that it is the europeans who have supported this? of course, we need flexibility to deal with unexpected challenges. but i think we must strike a balance between the challenges and the objectives of cohesion policy itself, namely social, economic and territorial cohesion. financial instruments can be well placed at the right place and at the right time to pursue these objectives. but they are not a panacea, and they are not everywhere and for everything. the european parliament must constantly weigh up the issues and decide for the benefit of all european citizens and for the development of all european regions. we should support this in the report by mr lambert von nistelrooij. i think we are on the right track for the future of cohesion policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there is probably no other political field and no other policy in the european union which can make european cohesion and european solidarity more visible than cohesion policy and the structural funds. i think that the two reports which we have here, and our question, are timely, because we are in the middle of the actual implementation of the new funding period. however, we must note that many member states are still working through the old funding period, which ended in 2013, new projects have not yet been started and we are facing significant delays in cohesion policy. it has thus been placed in a dilemma which makes it urgently necessary for us to discuss how we can proceed here. firstly, in speeding up what the structural funds are intended to do, namely the implementation of european objectives and content. this includes a debate which we should now start on whether the europe 2020 strategy is still the strategy that forms the basis for implementing the structural funds or whether there are new challenges in the meantime that require greater flexibility. and at the same time we must begin to debate how we can go beyond 2020, firstly in securing the financial contributions for the structural funds, but also in drawing up the legal bases.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commission has already made a very good proposal for an air transport strategy in europe. now there is a very good report by pavel telička, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks. it's actually the fact that we have more and more people in the world, and the air is getting more and more filled with not only passengers, but also cargo that needs to be transported. i think it's a good idea that pavel telička said we need a kind of motorway in the air. we already have them: we have highways, we have ocean highways, now we need highways -- although of course they're not cars -- in the air. so we really have to think about how to make room for everybody there. then we'll have to track everything that flies. it is not just the large passenger aircraft, it is also small private aircraft, it is drones, there is a lot that needs to be regulated, and this is all recorded and named here. we need fair competition, not just between airports. international: frankfurt, for example, has already lost its importance as a gateway airport and has been overtaken by istanbul. it is also true that there is a lot of competition in the airlines sector, and one wonders: is it still fair? do we need new rules? of course we need innovation. we must become more environmentally friendly in air transport. i'm waiting for the first aircraft that runs on algae fuel. that would be really cool. there is also a circular economy in aircraft manufacturing. i've already made sure of that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need more passenger rights and we need a single european airspace. i'm making this very conscious decision. this legislation has been stalled for two years. it's crazy that we're flying zigzag instead of straight lines. it would be much more efficient and much better for the environment. that's why we all have to fight for it to finally happen.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to focus on the events in bahrain, because of the peculiarity of a sunni ruling house there that wants to put pressure on the majority shia population. these three men from bahrain have been sentenced to death for a crime they most likely did not commit. it is obvious that this measure should intimidate the majority shiite population. the defendants were sentenced to death in february 2015, but appealed against this sentence, arguing that their confessions were extracted under torture. the appeal was dismissed shortly before the men were officially shot. when the arab spring riots in bahrain erupted, the sunni ruling house used the opportunity to decimate the shia population. then three years later, when a bomb killed three policemen, shiites were again blamed and three suspects were arrested within a short time and despite a fairly thin body of evidence. since the deliberate destabilisation of the countries of north africa and the middle east, religious or ethnic conflicts have been taking place which could have been prevented if the eu had not also supported us foreign policy on the ground.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)- before the beginning of the vote:
mr loones, i take this as a motion to postpone the vote. we will come to that when we come to the report. i will get back to you with the information.
thank you, colleague. the agreement of the colleagues shows that you have touched on a sore point. we'll record it and take care of it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to ask, on behalf of my group, in accordance with rule 59 (3) of the rules of procedure, that the amendments be put to the vote first and that the final vote be taken afterwards. there are two good reasons for this. the first reason is that the amendments concern fundamental rights and the respect for the rule of law, which we want to see implemented. it is also about maintaining the balance between freedom and security in the fight against terrorism. the second reason is that trilogues are of course not transparent and the amendments should at least make it clear what the basic issues of disagreement within the european parliament are. that's why we're asking for your approval.
the proposal is not to vote on the compromise amendment 101 now, but to vote on each of the amendments individually before a vote takes place. i'll put it to a vote. (the request is rejected)
mr loones, are you asking for the vote on this report to be postponed?
mr loones! the services assure me that this is a formally correct procedure, the plenary is sovereign. you can ask the house to postpone the vote. if you do not, we shall vote on it now. so are you asking the house to postpone the vote on the report, or shall we vote now?
is there anyone who would like to speak for this motion?
mr president, i would like to speak in favour of the motion from mr loones because his argument seems only rational. we are a european parliament so there should be proper translation in any language.
is there anyone who would like to speak against this motion?
the thank you note to mrs. bresso has arrived.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.15 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to bring to your attention the recent case of deniz yücel, a german-turkish journalist, who has been detained in a turkish prison for more than two weeks now. he, together with 150 turkish journalists, deserves our solidarity. this house should not only demand a strong and decisive reaction from the commission and the member states, especially the german government, but we should also request a debate on the situation of journalists imprisoned in turkish prisons, for the upcoming strasbourg session. let us demand the release of journalists detained in turkey. journalism is not a crime: it is the basis of democracy. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. thank you very much, mr president. 'quo vadis, europe?' you ask, mr juncker, and that is a good and right question at the right time. the eu and the eurozone are facing challenges they cannot overcome. the consequences of the euro, the common currency, have caused the citizens of europe a historic damage. the crisis continues to swell and the current policy of buying time is not working. the eu has made peace, but now all that is said about the eu is peace. let us remember: the eu, and the euro area in particular, should also provide prosperity and growth someday these hopes have been dashed. this is not an industrial accident either, but the result of centralism and megalomania. the failed concepts of social and economic centralisation belong in the moth-box. unfortunately, mr juncker, such ideas are still to be found in your paper. for example, in scenario 5, where the policy is to be moved to the innovation cluster, following the example of silicon valley. mr juncker, you have already taken a small step in the right direction in saying goodbye to outdated ideas. you have to go a little further. innovation and change work by themselves if policy creates the right conditions. if states want industrial policy, they should do so on their own responsibility and at their own expense. your scenario 2, limiting the eu to the single market, is therefore not unreasonable! the peaceful effect of economic integration would thus be preserved. but i admit that there are other concerns for the eu to take on a functional role - for example counter-terrorism and border protection. their concept 4 is entitled 'making less and more efficient'. fundamentally, this idea of limiting the eu to a few areas is a good one and the right approach. we should move on from here. we can see from the rapid succession and change of crisis scenarios in recent years that we can hardly fix policy areas indefinitely. flexibility is necessary. it should be clear that the cooperation referred to in scenario 4 involves voluntary participation in individual programmes and that nation states are given the possibility to withdraw from programmes or to enter new cooperation as needed. times are changing and the eu needs institutional rules to enable it to adapt to new challenges. no one in this house can foresee where cooperation will make sense in 10 or 20 years' time and we should leave future generations - you have rightly said this - with these freedoms. mr juncker, you may be one step ahead of our colleague mr verhofstadt, who has not yet learned his brexit lesson and wants to continue imposing a centralised welfare state on european citizens. please, communicate that. it is high time that this parliament abandoned the policy of wishful thinking. finally, your five scenarios suggest a certain degree of flexibility. it is a pity, mr juncker, that you did not formulate this flexibility in the same way to david cameron, because then the british would certainly still be a member of this european union. thank you, thank you.
mr president, mr president of the commission! we are all agreed that europe has achieved great things. no one's really arguing that. and that's why it's important. but it is also indisputable that europe has obviously lost the support of the people and even of a state. it doesn't help to chant or to tell people how great this project is. it is no use talking about the good from morning till night and only talking about the bad. and that is why, mr president of the commission, i am extremely grateful to you for the approach you have chosen: finally, not just a commission proposal which says 'this is how it is done', but a thoughtful paper with alternatives. it gives you the opportunity to take people, and all of us, back to a future project, to bring people together, to think about what the advantage is of option a, option b, option c or option d, to just weigh up what you want in the end, what you can still do, where the common denominator is. that's what this is about. and now if there's just one more paper to be presented and everyone's praying their stuff down, the stuff that matters to them, we're gonna be back up against the wall. i think it's extremely intelligent and super helpful that this path is being taken. i think he is right, because of course we have to answer a few questions about what europe can and cannot do. the subject of youth unemployment is constantly discussed here - and rightly so. and president juncker has made it clear that this example is the perfect example of why we are pushing this thing to the wall: because we are pushing ourselves too hard, because we are not able to do what we are supposed to do, because we are not competent. it's much smarter to say, "what are we doing?" we are doing what all the countries feel is wise, what europe can do together, because one country alone can no longer do it. and the other stuff, everybody has to do a little bit of it at home. in this sense, mr president, i am very grateful to you for making this attempt. of course, this only makes sense if we all start on this path now. if everyone starts downloading their programs, it's going to be a disaster. and if at the next council, everyone tells you what they want and what they don't want, it's over, too. thank you very much. this is a great opportunity.
in writing. i support the approach adopted by the president of the commission. the white paper provides the right basis for a broad debate which we will have to carry out in the coming months, involving all the parties involved: the european institutions, national parliaments, the regions and local authorities and all civil society. the five possible scenarios outline different options for where the union might be in the future. i think it is clear that europe must be aware that it is only as a united europe that it will not sink into insignificance. but that does not mean that all national and cultural differences must be levelled out. in this respect, juncker's motto remains: europe must be strong in big things and back off in small things.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the council will also report on the reforms and reform efforts of the western balkan countries and will note that progress has been made and there is still much to be done. but that's not enough anymore. we must make a great effort, because the road is long and difficult to reach the people in the countries, even during this phase of change. russia is investing in the western balkans, china is doing this, turkey is doing this, saudi arabia is doing this, and people are seeing the mosques and seeing the benefits that are being made there. and we cannot even afford to put an ensign with the european flag on the projects we have created. instead, we offer the simple baker in belgrade that we are now opening chapter 16. no one in belgrade except the politicians knows what chapter 16 is. if we do not make more efforts for the people of the balkans, they will eventually lose a little bit of the desire to walk the path because of the long time it takes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great and important speech today by the president of the commission, who has at last opened a debate instead of setting an objective and pursuing it in spite of all the criticism. i think it's important to give the european union a chance to make the course corrections that the european union needs to make. and that's why the ball is now in the council's court. the council should open this debate at its next meeting, bring it into society, draw attention to the fact that europe has a wide range of possibilities for development. it is very remarkable, when you look at the different options presented by the president of the commission, that one of them is the option of saying: we should do less in the future, we should concentrate on the important things and we should do the important things better than before. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. she did too much, she did the unimportant things, and she didn't do the important things well. we have never heard such a critical speech by the president of the commission on his own work, on the work of this commission and the work of this house. it is remarkable that he has kept it, and it is up to the council to speak with the same honesty to the citizens of europe. thank you, thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is incredible what we are hearing from both the council and the commission here today! nothing was accomplished. the redistribution is not working. dublin is not working. schengen is not working. and instead, we would like to propose five ways of a new europe, where we might find something new. ladies and gentlemen, can you imagine why the british left the eu? because they didn't listen to the people. because they're afraid of immigration, afraid of immigration. from what's coming to europe. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the fact that there is no european people means that you speak of citizens and forget about the sovereignty of the people. we have a duty to our people first and then to europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, there has been plenty of discussion this afternoon about the future and the past. the commission must also live in the present. since the bratislava summit in september we have been working hard to deliver on a unifying set of priority issues. today president juncker has again shown his commitment, and the commitment of the whole commission, to delivery by presenting his white paper in line with the promise made before this house in his state of the union speech. life goes on and our work goes on. the european union is 60 years young. that means that we are old enough and wise enough not to get distracted from the task at hand today. we are also young enough, energetic enough and enthusiastic enough to make sure we deliver what we promise. next week’s european council must be about delivery. delivery is the most important point on this issue. europe needs to deliver on migration, deliver on jobs and prosperity, deliver on security, and deliver on all of its agreed priorities. the european commission will continue to deliver.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for a useful exchange, which i will convey to the president of the european council. let me use these concluding remarks to underline the importance for the european union, for all of us, of the two principles: responsibility and delivery. the european council, as is its prerogative, draws the way forward and provides strategic guidance. this is reflected in its conclusions in the form of objectives and deadlines. it is then our responsibility – the responsibility of both the council and the parliament – to work together to deliver on this guidance. with your help, with your ideas and with your energy, the presidency has already been able to deliver on important tasks set by the european council. i hope there will be many, many more. in the end, this is what matters to citizens, not institutional wins, but responsibility and delivery from the lawmakers. thank you for your help in achieving that ambition.
in writing. the european council meets in brussels on 9 and 10 march. the summit participants will, among other things, discuss the situation in the western balkans. the foreign affairs committee has recently had an intensive discussion on the tense situation in the region. the high representative, federica mogherini, is travelling to all six western balkan countries in the coming days. that's a real sign. this week we in the foreign affairs committee discussed and voted on the european parliament's reports on serbia, macedonia, montenegro and kosovo. however, one message is the same in all reports: the western balkans must remain a priority of the european union's foreign policy. these countries are very close to us through many cultural, economic and political links. the geopolitical situation of the region, surrounded by the member states of the european union, should make it of particular interest to us to see it develop positively. the people there want a stable and peaceful future. the european union makes this possible.
mr. chairman, according to the latest figures from the united nations high commissioner for refugees, one in every four asylum seekers is a child. we all cite the staggering figure of over ten thousand migrant children who have disappeared in europe. however, the exact number of missing children remains unknown. a large proportion of cases are not reported due to the lack of a central register. this leads to the creation of false data. it is indeed necessary to share information at european level so that it is accessible to all member states. second, prevention is the key word. preventing the disappearance of migrant children should be at the heart of the european union's migration policy. the long administrative procedures, lack of information and trust in local authorities, inadequate reception conditions, and detention practices are just some of the factors that contribute to disappearances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the dangers of trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of children. congratulations on your efforts, commissioner! issues such as admission conditions, the role of frontex, eurodac, all of this is a significant step forward. we all need to take a responsible approach to these files in order to ensure that a safe environment is provided for migrant children, as well as an improved tracking system to ensure effective protection.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, it should be noted that the member states have the core responsibility to take care of missing children who are in their territories. that is their main task, their main competence. officially, the european commission does not even have a competence for this, because the lisbon treaty does not provide for it. if there are problems in belgium with accommodation, the belgian state and its government have an obligation, just as in germany or france. but i have specific requests in the areas where i think we can do something, and particularly in the hotspots where most unaccompanied minors arrive. would it be possible, commissioner, for us to create separate units within frontex and easo to deal with unaccompanied minors on arrival, perhaps with a separate staff contingent, so that the local authorities can also be encouraged to separate the accommodation of unaccompanied minors from the start, if possible, and to provide them with special assistance, perhaps also with the support of european funds? a second request: europol has units to combat trafficking in human beings, units to combat forced prostitution, slavery and the like, but there is no specific or sufficient staff to deal with the issue of missing children or children at risk. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the member states.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. equal treatment between women and men is a fundamental right in the european union. the fact that some of my predecessors have considered the unequal pay of women to be justified, even with equal qualifications and performance, is shocking. the gender pay gap is a staggering 41% on the eu average! this inevitably leads over the years to another problem: the gap between men's and women's pensions is 39%. women are thus more likely to be affected by old age poverty. it is more urgent than ever in europe to close these gaps. if we continue at the current rate, it will be 2069 before men and women are paid equally. we now need transparency on pay and sanctions for companies that violate equal pay. we need affordable and good care services to relieve women of the burden of childcare and family care. and we need a change in our minds about how we value the financial value of typical women's occupations. with these approaches, we must reduce the gender pay gap by 2% per year over the next few years - we owe it to half the population of our member states!
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the recent partial decriminalisation of domestic violence in russia (2017/2570 ((rsp)). mrs mogherini is unable to speak. mrs jourová, you speak for her. there you go!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i welcome this opportunity to discuss here, on behalf of federica mogherini, the recently adopted russian law decriminalising some forms of domestic violence, in the context of other discussions we are having on issues related to gender and children. while no country is immune from domestic violence, unfortunately not even in the eu, the russian federation has always lacked comprehensive measures to prevent violence against women and children. currently, according to statistics from the russian interior ministry, about 40% of grave crimes in russia are committed within the family. in 2006, the united nations committee on elimination of discrimination against women recommended that russia adopted specific legislation on domestic violence, stepped up its efforts to protect victims of violence and promoted gender equality. in 2010 and 2013, the committee under the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women found that russia failed to implement these recommendations, and urged it to give priority to this issue. russia is one of only three members of the council of europe that have not signed the istanbul convention, that is, the council of europe’s convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. most countries in europe are taking measures to stop domestic violence and raise awareness of this serious violation of human rights. on the contrary, russia’s recent actions send the wrong message about the country’s commitment to tackling violence against women and children. they also go against its responsibilities as a member of international organisations. the recent law – adopted by the parliament and signed by president putin – reduces ‘battery within the family’ from a criminal to an administrative offence for first-time offenders, and it weakens the sanctions. this is a clearly regressive step. it reverses some amendments to the criminal code adopted by the russian parliament itself in 2016, which treated violence against relatives as a criminal offence. the law was passed just weeks after the decision by the russian ministry of justice to list the anna centre as a ‘foreign agent’. the anna centre is a russian ngo renowned for its work on combatting domestic violence, including its reporting for the united nations and the council of europe. the european union expressed its concern about this bill right after it was voted by the parliament, and before it was signed into law by president putin. we addressed this issue in the council of europe on 1 february and in the osce on 2 february. after the law was signed, on 7 february, we confirmed our criticism through a statement. we now repeat our call on russia’s institutions to reverse this law and to respect international human rights standards, implementing in full the recommendations of the united nations committee on the elimination of discrimination against women. the ratification of the istanbul convention would also be a very positive step. there can be no excuse for domestic violence. social norms can be no excuse; family culture can be no excuse. social norms can change, but we need to work hard for this to happen. we need to work on education and on good laws, so that violence can be eradicated from family life. reducing sanctions is clearly a step in the wrong direction. it can only leave those who need protection more vulnerable and weaker than before. honourable members, thank you for your attention and i look forward to our discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. why are we talking about this change in the law in russia in this house? because unfortunately we have to say that in the russian duma there is no voice, no lobby for the weak in society. and the ngos that are dealing with this -- we just heard -- are being put on the list of foreign agents. instead, of course, the brutal are consistently protected, whether they are fathers or others. it is also an indication of how society is evolving. why is there a committee for soldier mothers in russia in the next phase of life? because they have to worry about their sons, because they are treated just as brutally, in many cases, to the point of death. this is an expression of a degradation of society as a whole and of the language in this country. and i believe and i fear that it is to weaken the general sensitivity to violence, the sensitivity to the fact that society is actually militarized in many areas - in the curricula, in the exercises in schools. all of this is, in my view, a very bad sign that the whole direction of russian society is wrong, and it starts with the smallest and weakest in the family. that is to be condemned.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, commissioner, domestic violence is not a tradition. beating up a spouse or child is not simply an administrative offence. domestic violence is a criminal act, even if the recent law adopted in the russian parliament tells us otherwise. this law is not simply a legal change; it is a message. it is a message to all victims of domestic violence, to all russian women, and to all women all over the world: we do not care about your concerns and we do not care about you. that is why the european answer to this message should be: we do care; we care about any form of gender-based violence. not only will we adopt the best legislation against domestic violence, starting with the ratification of the istanbul convention by the european union, as well as all member states, but we will also provide support and funding for women’s shelters, support for victims and women’s empowerment, starting with the ‘she decides’ fund. what a powerful message of strength and determination – i mean real strength and real determination, not the strengths that people such as trump or putin believe in – this would be to all european women, to all russian women and to all women all over the world.
thank you, mr. tarand, you may speak estonian, of course. we have the best interpreters in the world here, and they are fit and performing late at night.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 2 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the eu options for improving access to medicines (2016/2057 (ini)) (a8-0040/2017).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not that's an important topic we're talking about today. i thank the rapporteur for her extensive work. we had a very long and very intense discussion. it's about putting the patient first and then with an aging population, some of them with more chronic diseases, which we unfortunately have, to make medicine equally accessible to as many people as possible and also to be innovative in research and ultimately to come up with affordable medicines. i want to say something here, because it was a bit out of the way: i think it is wrong to deny the researchers any ethics. that sounded a little bit obvious. there are many researchers in the field of pharmaceuticals who are eager to help people. this is a big deal. of course, this also means that we must agree to look at ways of helping each other across borders, for example, if there is a shortage of medical care somewhere, if perhaps a particular disease or something else has broken out, where we can actually see which other member state might have something in stock that we can help ourselves with. it is also a matter of agreeing on research and also of ensuring that prices do not go to the limit. but i want to address something that i also think is very important: the oecd has found that at least 20% of healthcare costs would be unnecessary, because unnecessary treatment and unnecessary medication administration are to be taken into account. digitalisation can bring a lot, and that has been mentioned. in greece, it has been found that electronic prescribing has reduced the cost of medicines by 40%. all of this we have to take into account to actually make sure that we have the money for the people who need the drugs.
colleagues, if you get one minute from your group please try to stick to one minute. we are way over time already. i will not have a catch-the-eye in this debate, i am afraid we cannot do it because we are way over time already. please stick to your time slots.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report highlights the importance of ensuring that patients in all member states have equal access to medicines. article 17 of the charter of fundamental rights refers to the protection of intellectual property. when firms invest in innovation and research, this ensures a return on investment. the pharmaceutical market is a special case because medicinal products cannot be regarded as other goods. article 35 of the charter obliges states to ensure access to medicines. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the eu must work to put patients' welfare ahead of profit. the introduction of generic medicines is an important means of stimulating competition, reducing prices and ensuring a sustainable and high-performing health system.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 2 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
that concludes this item.
i would like to thank the commission on behalf of all the members for coming. i thank the interpreters for their excellent work late into the night and wish you all a good night. (the sitting was closed at 11.40 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not sure that the commissioner will be able to answer this question. you should not base this project on culture, but on science and economics. i know wonderful italian operas, but i don't know any european opera. i read portuguese literature, but i've never read a book in a european language. i like to go to italian food, but have you ever been to brussels and seen a european restaurant? i'm not the one. and i don't know anyone who cheers for a european football team. ladies and gentlemen, in my country, culture is the responsibility of the länder. there is no minister for culture in germany, and i think that is right. the question is why we have to deal with so-called european culture in this house. i think it is presumptuous to try to tell the people that instead of italian, portuguese, british, scottish or catalan culture there should now be a european culture. there is certainly a rich culture in europe, but there is no european culture. any attempt to create a european culture here is presumptuous in my opinion. the diversity of european culture is due to the fact that it is produced in different countries and regions. the attempt to counterpose it to european culture is not manifold but simple.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report says: 'creative europe is a victim of its own success: too many project ideas, too little budget. what does that tell us? the responsibility of the member states for culture safeguards cultural diversity and regional culture is ultimately also promoted in other european programmes. and yet, mr henkel, we also need a european cultural policy that is more than a catering table on the fringes of the european single market. the future will not be a glittering web of economic indicators, and we will not gain anything from isolationist strategies. but our future depends on our present ability to communicate in many languages, including music and images. intercultural democratic dialogue is not a matter of course, it is engraved in the cultural memory of europe. if we want to have these treasures, we must do more to promote them. the integration of the european southern partnership needs to be accompanied by the creative europe programme on a much broader scale. we also need to increase the amount of funding for the media sub-programme. film and modern media, like chemistry and engineering, need good labs, room for error, and experimentation rooms. we need more european public opinion for this. and then the question of an open audience is not just a question of better marketing. to put it simply, yes, culture costs, but unculture costs more. and that's why i'm asking for your approval.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the first point i would like to make is that european cultural policy is based on a democratic concept of culture. it is not a question of a nationalist or ethnic or even racist concept of culture, but of the fact that european cultural policy is deeply marked by the idea of equality. it is about diversity and also about dealing with cultural minorities. mr henkel, you are completely wrong to say that this is a matter of homogenization or a false restriction, that it is all about european culture. what's interesting is that it's about acknowledging diversity. it is a question of promoting them and of course of enabling artists and citizens to get to know the diversity of european cultures, to benefit from it, to appreciate it, to really know what a cultural treasure of diversity there is in the european union. it is almost malicious to say otherwise, because the point is to make people aware of the opportunities they have with the cultural diversity of the european union. in particular, i want to recognise that the european creative industries are a major contributor to this diversity and to european investment and economic policy. the creative industries must therefore also be an essential part of european economic policy, and this cultural programme must above all recognize the intrinsic value of culture. we have many projects in the cultural sector, which are non-profit, which do not deal with large sums, but are able to really radiate into society. projects that appeal to people on a level that other policies cannot. and this is the crucial part of this european cultural programme 'creative europe', which is why we must strengthen it and not degrade it or diminish it. it is an essential part of a really well-understood european policy that reaches people, in their hearts and in their diversity in everyday life. that is why it is so important to me that the application process is simplified, especially for small projects, because many people are disappointed that they have few opportunities to submit these programme contributions in an easy way, when it comes to small sums. i would also like to stress once again - as many colleagues have done before me - that the cultural budget, as it is now in the european union, is far too small. at 0.15% of the mff, it does not reflect the real social significance of the diversity of the european union's culture. that is why it is urgent that this should be changed when the next financial perspective is drawn up. fortunately, the commission has launched a new project for the integration of refugees into cultural work. we started with a total of 1.6 million. it is better than nothing, but it is clear that, given the task we have to perform, it is far too little. i therefore repeat my clear request: the european union's cultural budget for the safeguarding of diversity and the appreciation of diversity must be increased!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the creative europe programme, with its media and culture main strands, is particularly promoting cultural diversity and innovation in cultural and creative projects in europe and, in particular, cultural exchanges between regions. and mr henkel, cultural exchange is what has brought culture to the fore in europe, in every region, time and again. imagine cologne cathedral without the development of gothic in france! i think that the cultural approach you have put forward here, which is very nationalistic, should perhaps be reconsidered. we are also faced with a massive underfunding of this programme, as with the next item on the agenda which we will discuss later. this also leads to insufficient involvement of smaller projects in the programme areas. we must improve the financing and, above all, improve and simplify the application procedures so that even small cultural initiatives and projects have a better chance of participating in the sub-programmes. i also believe that greater transparency is needed when a project application is rejected, and that it is important to provide a precise and clear justification for the rejection of a project application and to explain it to applicants. because that helps to reduce the great potential for frustration in the event of rejection. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the cfp, in particular by ensuring that the cfp is properly managed and implemented. initial steps to exploit synergies have already been taken, but they are far from sufficient, as these funds are not geared to the specific needs and the different structures in the cultural and creative sectors and do not sufficiently address those needs. the cross-sectoral action area has created a further pillar of support in addition to the media and culture sub-programmes, which can be an opportunity especially for smes and micro-enterprises if the full potential of this action area is really used and developed. the cultural and creative sectors contribute 4.4% of eu gdp and provide jobs for 3.8% of the eu's workforce. the commission will continue to support the development of the sector in the medium term, with a view to achieving the full potential of the sector as a source of growth and employment and as a driver for cultural diversity and cross-border cooperation. we should all work together towards that! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs. verheyen, every sunday morning i host a jazz program on radio jazz berlin from 11 to 12 you can listen to this. jazz also came from cultural exchange between different countries, but there was no brussels to make sure that this happened. do you really think we need brussels to have cultural exchange? would you make the same speech in germany, where we do not even have a minister of culture and we do not have a cultural budget at the federal level?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. perhaps you should first get some more information. there is a secretary of state for culture, and he has a budget for that. it is not as much as we would like, but it is in the culture - unfortunately god's - in europe, especially at the national level, yes always. it is particularly important that we in europe take up this task and provide support here so that artists and the creative industries can be mutually enriched and that this is exactly what will be possible in the future, namely that jazz is formed, which has been mixed from african and american cultures. we have a lot in europe that used to be promoted by royal houses and various other structures - only the royal houses are no more, and the nation states are failing in many places in this area.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals. europe for citizens the title makes it clear what it is all about. it is a programme that addresses citizens directly and aims to give them additional opportunities to implement good ideas, to implement projects together and to cooperate across borders. this programme has two main objectives. the first point is the culture of memory. as we know from the current disputes, this is a point of particular importance in the european union, because it is a matter of working out the history of stalinism, national socialism and fascism and thereby really contributing to a democratic society which is able to deal with differences and minorities in a positive way and not have to exclude these people. the second point is democratic citizen participation. this is another area where the quality of democratic life in the european union is at stake, where citizens have the opportunity to receive targeted support in the framework of town twinning or if they have specific ideas - some examples have already been mentioned - to put joint projects in practice in the european union. the problem is that this budget is so small that it cannot meet the demands that are being made. it is even worse: the budget has been cut even with the last multiannual financial framework, which is now in force. it is really absurd in a situation where the commission and parliament are right to say that we must do more with this programme in particular, because we can see from the number of applications that there is a very great need and that the citizens are accepting this programme because it really gives them additional opportunities. so what's the assignment? we must work specifically to increase the budget for this programme so that we can actually put into practice the demand for additional possibilities for cooperation and for real construction from below, in terms of european citizenship and european projects by citizens. so with the next mff, there must be a clear change here, and citizens will really appreciate this in terms of participation and democratic participation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the 'europe for citizens' programme is an important programme for eu cohesion, especially in our time, when the call for more democracy and participation is growing, on the one hand, and populist, nationalist and anti-european movements are gaining ground, on the other. it promotes historical awareness, civic engagement and helps to break down barriers and promote encounter and friendship between the peoples of europe. we need a europe that brings people together, not one built of stone and law books, more than ever. the programme has already received a great deal of positive feedback in the previous funding period, but has always been underfunded, as the number of project applications is much higher than the number of approved projects. this situation has been made even more precarious by the drastic budget cuts made by the member states during the current funding period, and many good projects, fully complying with the programme guidelines, have to be rejected year after year, which naturally increases the frustration of the applicants considerably, because many put a lot of effort into getting good projects up and running, and then cannot expect to receive any support in the end. the programme that can best help to increase understanding of europe, european values and the structures of the eu is far from adequately funded. the committee on culture and the european parliament have therefore repeatedly called for an increase in the budget from the current meagre eur 185 million to around eur 500 million in the next medium-term financial framework, which would be just one euro per citizen. this, along with many other proposals in the report, would be one of the first important steps to significantly increase the effectiveness of the programme, because unlike some other initiatives and programmes at eu level, there is no shortage of good projects.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague ms mcclarkin so much for her report. my congratulations to her. i do, however, want to stress here that we will miss the brits negotiating on the basis of the report that ms mcclarkin has just outlined. i do not really understand how the brits will continue to try to convince trading partners on the sustainability issue, because we can only convince our partners if we have the weight of the whole european union with its 500 million people. the smaller you are, the less chance you have to convince your partners about these goals we have in common, and that i am sure we will have in common in the future also.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. wikileaks has released the first documents about the cia's ability to hack into smartphones, even tv sets and other things, including cars, and has announced that it will release more. viruses, trojans - in some cases even cars can be remotely controlled. the technology is self-effacing, and there's no guarantee that even cia officers can't use it for their own purposes without the cia's knowledge. from this point of view of the cover-up and the use of false fingerprints - including, possibly, russian fingerprints - the attacks on the 2012 french elections may also be seen in a different light. the cia hackers operate from the us consulate in frankfurt as a base in europe, the middle east and africa. the german government has so far refused to comment publicly on this. but we need a public debate, and i believe that this is not a debate that needs to be held only in germany. i believe that this is a debate which concerns all european countries and we should have this debate here in this parliament today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. cheer up before i speak, thank you very much! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important that we know what we are talking about on thursday afternoon: the cooperation between the traffickers and the ngos involved in search and rescue operations in the mediterranean. this is an important part of the mediterranean towing. i therefore simply ask that the title of the question be placed on the agenda, as is customary now and then in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on the agenda: i would like to point out briefly that the alternative motion for a resolution tabled by mr dantin on the own-initiative report on minimum standards for farm rabbits exceeded the word limit by the deadline of last thursday, in breach of rule 170 (3) of the rules of procedure of this house. i now find that after the deadline for submission, the text has been shortened. if the reason was a technical problem, rule 170 (4) states: 'with the president's agreement, amendments may exceptionally be tabled after the deadline for tabling amendments, if they are compromise amendments or if there are technical problems. the president shall decide on the admissibility of such amendments. the president shall obtain parliament's consent to vote on such motions before the vote. mr president, in this context i ask you whether you consider the epp alternative motion for a resolution to be admissible or whether you will put it to the vote here, as is the rule in this house.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. mercury is acutely toxic and is one of the ten most harmful naturally occurring substances on this planet. fetus, newborn and children are particularly at risk, as during the growth phase the brain and nervous system are very sensitive to mercury. even small amounts of mercury ingested can cause serious health problems. in the 1950's, thousands of people and many animals in the coastal city of minamata, japan, were diagnosed with massive and irreparable damage to the central nervous system. the media referred to it as minamata disease. the cause of these diseases was high-grade mercury poisoning caused by the discharge of contaminated sewage from a local chemical factory into the sea. today, it is estimated that about ten thousand people were seriously injured and about three thousand died as a result of the poisoning. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. i saw my role as rapporteur as being to represent the minamata convention's approach as best as possible and to put forward an ambitious proposal. this approach was widely supported by the environment committee. i was very pleased to hear that and it showed that the majority of the committee understood its role. the compromise reached after the second trilogue unfortunately lacks the ambitious positions contained in the draft report after the vote in the committee on the environment. i would have liked to have gone to a third round of negotiations to defend parliament's position. i very much regret that i did not receive the necessary support from the majority of the shadow rapporteurs during the negotiations on the crucial issues. the report thus bears the signature of german corporate interests in some areas. i have nevertheless decided to support this report in order to clear the way for the eu to ratify the minamata agreement. although i had hoped for a more ambitious text, we can hope for a reduction in the use of mercury, at least in the field of dentistry, once the report has been adopted. after the phasing out of the use in the chlor-alkali industry this year, the largest demand for mercury in europe is for amalgam fillings, at 75 tonnes per year. it is now up to the member states to transpose this eu legislation into national law as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this result, in particular the shadow rapporteur for the epp, mr dantin. mercury is toxic, and we need to reduce it. that is why the epp group will of course vote in favour of the compromise tomorrow. i think it is possible to make compromises, as we did at the end of this report. because when it comes to how you're exposed to mercury, it's very much about the exposure. so it depends a lot on whether it's in a gaseous form or in another form, a bound form. so we were glad that they finally weighed up some points, for example in the industrial processes, where you have a very complete process, but on the other hand many jobs would have been put at risk if we had left the process too soon. there are also many different views on amalgam. i think there has to be a goal, which is why i welcome the compromise that we get rid of amalgam if possible. because there are question marks, and if there are question marks, it's better, we have alternatives. but experts are still arguing about how available these alternatives are and how quickly we can completely replace it. it is therefore right to start immediately with the sensitive groups and to set the direction, but not to decide immediately - especially not without an impact assessment - on a complete ban. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mercury is not used in the production of other products. it's about the mercury in energy-saving lamps. there are very, very strict limits. there's not much left. compared to the thermometers we used to have, that's more than a hundred times less. but we must not forget that the combustion of coal produces a lot of mercury, and the commission has calculated: the use of energy-saving lamps - if they are still necessary, if you do not have more recent technologies - is still useful because it can save coal-fired power stations. and that's not just in general, but in particular, with mercury, good for the environment.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report. mercury is highly toxic. we've heard that a lot. i actually know how toxic it is, because my mother always told us that we should not drop the thermometer, which used to measure fever, where you can see the liquid mercury, for god's sake, because otherwise it would actually release harmful substances and harm us as well. because we're talking about children. peter liese spoke to the energy-saving lamps: i thought it was very bad at the time that the light bulb was banned and energy-saving lamps came because they contain mercury. we have two cases in germany where a child, because such an energy-saving lamp has broken down, has been corroded by the fumes and has been marked by this for life. of course, this cannot happen. it's only happened twice, but at least. that means mercury is highly toxic. it's also said to be found everywhere in the environment, in fish, in seafood. of course, it's not supposed to be. we have it in the soil, and we have to try to reduce it. i therefore agree with everyone else that amalgam should be banned now, especially for the baby teeth and for pregnant and breastfeeding women. this is really necessary because otherwise poisoning can happen, directly or indirectly, especially in children. i also think it is good that consideration should be given to whether amalgam, which contains mercury, should not be banned altogether in the near future. the commission is called upon to make a proposal on this. that is also perfectly correct. i would like to mention one aspect which has not played a very important part in the debate or has not been mentioned at all until now: there are some areas in medicine where mercury is irreplaceable, but where it is still used quite correctly, even in very small doses. that's homeopathy and anthroposophic medicine. i think it is quite good - i have also tabled amendments to this effect - that this can still be done, because otherwise there would be no possibility for certain therapies. remember, paracelsus said the dose makes the poison. it's so minimal that it helps people, but it doesn't do much damage to the environment. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my colleagues have already pointed out that mercury is a highly toxic material -- it damages our nerves, liver, lungs, our immune system, our eyes, our teeth, and even our largest organ, our skin, and so the consequences for us are very, very dramatic. mercury is also very long-lived and is widely distributed through the air and water. so there is bioaccumulation, bio-magnification, and there are big problems with it. i thank the rapporteur for his very ambitious report and i share his assessment that a little more could have been done. but i think we are on the right track, and colleagues have already pointed this out: the point is to ratify the minimum agreement signed in 2013 by 140 countries and thus finally get things underway. we have the trilog report here, and i think that despite everything we can say that it deserves our approval. the results of the trilogue are still a long way off the complete phase-out of highly toxic mercury, which is not due until 2030. you can't fully satisfy. the s&ds will, however, agree with the result and believe that ambitious action is needed in the member states to make progress faster, because pregnant women and babies in particular need to be protected. this is something that has been pointed out by my colleagues.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. to limit the use of mercury to the maximum extent possible and thus fully implement the united nations minamata convention is the aim of this regulation. i am convinced that we have succeeded in doing so. i would remind you that in 2013 the european union signed this convention to reduce the harmful effects of mercury. the aim was to restrict mercury use to areas where there are no suitable alternatives. there are - as some colleagues have already mentioned - a number of exceptions for which no suitable replacement has yet been found. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. they contain minute amounts of mercury as an active or starting substance and this is still necessary for certain forms of therapy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the mercury is not used in the same way as other substances. it is important to me that they can continue to be produced in europe. it is clear that companies must ensure that their use does not pose a risk to humans or the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this, and in particular our shadow rapporteur, michel dantin. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking what it would cost to stop using mercury. i don't know the exact figures. but it is clear - and mr liese has made it clear in the debate before - that there is a debate in science and that it is still the majority opinion that we are not yet in a position to do without amalgam altogether, for example in dental treatment. i can repeat what i said before, that i also see this in the field of homeopathic anthroposophical medicine.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to welcome the support many of you expressed and would like to make the following remarks concerning some of the points you addressed in this interesting debate. on ms ayuso’s question: the mercury export fraud was due to illegal activities by a german company. it has been closed and the responsible people are being prosecuted now. the commission has intervened too, where possible, to prevent the exported mercury from being used and to ensure that it is taken back to germany. on homeopathy, the regulation does not prohibit the use of mercury in homeopathy. on the proposal that the eu should prohibit fully the use of dental amalgam, the commission’s scientific committee concluded that there was no evidence of risks to the health of patients from the use of dental amalgam. however, the commission supports the precautionary prohibition of amalgam use for dental care of children and pregnant and breastfeeding women. this prohibition has been included in the regulation. furthermore, reducing the use of mercury is beneficial for the environment and the requirement for member states to draw up national plans on the phasing-down of dental amalgam should make a significant contribution towards this objective. as required by the regulation, the commission will launch a feasibility study on the full prohibition of dental amalgam and report back to the legislator by mid-2020. allow me to conclude by saying that i am confident after today’s debate that you will massively support the new mercury regulation in your vote tomorrow. this will confirm that the eu is firmly on track to become the first mercury-free economy and will set an example for our international partners.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank you for your comments and for your strong support for the report. we have taken an important step in the right direction. but let me say one last thing, which is all too often forgotten in this house and especially in the council: environmental policy is social policy; it affects economic development and the quality of life of all people. the task of environmental policy must be to give environmental concerns a weighty voice. it must ensure that the principle of shared responsibility is not pushed to the margins by particularly vocal or financially powerful interest groups. for the future debates and decisions on environmental policy issues and questions, i appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to turn your back on the old slogans of 'environmental protection is anti-technological, endangers jobs and is an obstacle to economic development' and to understand environmental policy as sustainability policy. looking ahead, i hope that the minamata process will continue to put pressure on national governments and further reduce both soil and site contamination, as well as dental and industrial uses.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr sergio cofferati, for two and a half years of hard work and, above all, for the result that has been achieved and which our group supports. the revision of the directive aims to overcome the current lack of shareholder involvement in company decisions, to increase transparency in the exercise of shareholders' voting rights and to achieve better control of company management by strengthening shareholder rights, and this is precisely what will happen in the future. shareholders will be better informed about the companies in which they invest and will be able to vote on the remuneration of managers. and for the first time in the history of european company law, the role of stakeholders is also recognised - in particular employees who are not shareholders. i would like to emphasize this point: there is a very central point which must be worked on with real determination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is paid in the member state where it is made. for our group, country-specific reporting of tax-relevant company data is a key issue in the fight against tax avoidance. we'll stay on this. the race to avoid taxes must be stopped - that is what the citizens expect from us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not this discussion is also about the pay of managers. and if politicians now think they have to decide what managers earn, then i can see that they will soon decide what football players earn or actors or tv company directors. of course, there's always a conflict between transparency on the one hand and the desire for privacy on the other. that is also a right of managers. and there is, of course, the right of owners to determine how managers are paid. and that's why i believe that the best thing we can do now with large public companies is to make sure that the shareholders decide what the managers pay and what the managers get, and not just the boards.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka, for his efforts and dedication, which in our view were very bureaucratic, and which perhaps did not belong here in this report, but which were then published. that is why we in the legal affairs committee, as the epp group, were not able to accept what was in that report, and that is why it went far beyond what we had proposed by the commission. we must first see where this is coming from. we had this harsh experience of the financial market crisis. this was a very significant event, and it still has that impact today. that is why it is right to speak today of the longterm sustainability of investments, of the transparency we need, of the competitiveness you have mentioned. it is therefore sensible to deal with the question of remuneration, because we have often had to take account of something through taxation, which was not then taken into account by those responsible. that's why it makes sense. but this issue of tax avoidance and country by county reporting should not have been the subject of this directive and should not be. that is why it was good that the commission has dealt with it accordingly. but it shouldn't have come in here. we have, of course, various things that we are particularly proud of, that afterwards the excessive bureaucracy has been avoided and that we then have this transparency in all these things. that is why it is now a report that can be adopted, and we are happy to support it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a lot has been said already. i would like to make it clear once again on behalf of the epp group - and i thank mr zwiefka for his contribution - that we all agree that sustainable business policies and long-term orientation of business decisions have produced strong companies in europe, and we have an interest in ensuring that this remains the case. and i think that's what connects us across party lines. i am also very pleased to say that we have had a long discussion with mr cofferati on this subject in the committee on the internal market. but unfortunately we also had to make sure in this directive that the not really shareholder law issues of the country by country reporting as mr voss has already done are resolved. we have succeeded in doing so, and i am very grateful for that. the third thing i would like to say is that we have a great interest in giving more decision-making rights to the shareholders who own the company. the commission's original proposal may not have distinguished between the dualistic and the monistic principles. i think that the results that have come out in the end are welcome and have been well received, and i am grateful that we have been able to establish and consolidate this. the last point that is raised again and again is that we are of course interested in fair and adequate remuneration for ceos and managers who perform an important job, but we cannot agree on a uniform minimum wage, a median wage and a maximum wage in europe. the member states are called upon to do so. and i think that this is a good solution, whether it is a consultative or a binding decision, which can be taken in the end by the shareholders' committees. i am very pleased with the overall result and thank everyone who has contributed to it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. last week we used international women's day to draw attention to the still-widespread abuses and the current threatening developments in the field of gender equality. during the last plenary session in brussels, a colleague painfully reminded us that even in the european parliament, medieval and extremely questionable statements are made about women. fortunately, this act of discrimination was duly reprimanded by you. today i would like to address a major problem area: we are seeing a growing feminization of poverty in the eu. it is triggered by the imposition of austerity measures, particularly in the public services and health care. austerity policies are leading to a massive wave of privatisation, which is hurting the quality of care, and putting the responsibility for the care and support of young children and the elderly in our society back on the shoulders of families, and thus mostly on the shoulders of women. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr urtasun, for his report, which identifies these developments and their interrelations and calls on the member states to support horizontal solutions and to counter the current trend in a consistent manner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so today we're going to talk about three templates for re-educating people based on gender ideology. in the name of gender and anti-discrimination, marriage between a man and a woman is being discriminated against. the noichl report last spoke of the health risks of marriage. and so now you're surprised by the growing resistance to this gender nonsense and you want to analyze it. the analysis is simple: the vast majority of people are just men and women. you're either getting married or you're not. they are becoming fathers and mothers, and they do not want the whole of society to be turned upside down because of a few exceptions and small minorities, and that too for a lot of money. people have real problems: jobs, pensions, health, safety, public toilets for the third sex and gender-equitable nature parks are not among them. that is why we, as a party, have only one word in our programme on the subject: not a penny for this nonsense.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. the commission is not 30 years until women have as many jobs as men. 40 years until the division of domestic work is equally divided between the sexes. and 70 years until women and men are paid equally. the economic emancipation of women was again the focus of the european parliament's attention on international women's day last week. but our fight for equality must not be limited to one day, but must be a priority in our political decisions all year long. the care of children and elderly relatives must be distributed more evenly. it is not fair to leave this task to women, for the most part free of charge! we need to rethink the financial valuation of typical women's jobs and bring their pay levels into line with typical men's jobs. and we need to make sure that women are not paid less than men for the same job with the same qualifications, by making pay more transparent. it is the only way to eliminate some of the inequalities that still exist. the eu commission is now being asked to take up our demands for parental, maternity and paternity leave and to provide the starting point for better gender equality with the corresponding new proposals for directives.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by ms ana gomes on the impact of mass data on fundamental rights: privacy, data protection, non-discrimination, security and law enforcement (2016/2225 (ini)) (a8-0044/2017).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. big data brings us many benefits, but it must also be clear that a large amount of data can also mean a lot of personal data, and that in these cases it is always clear that data protection must be taken into account, even when it comes to big data applications. we have drawn clear lines in the general data protection regulation. and that's the way we have to go, because that's the basis for confidence in these new applications. we need the same for security. it should be clear that when such applications are designed and placed on the market, they are also subject to liability rules, for example for security vulnerabilities that occur. and there must be limits in the end. it can't be that in the police department, for example, a big data algorithm alone determines whether or not i'm a suspect. we cannot predict people and their actions, but we can assess how places are shaped or how certain processes take place, but not people.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, today’s debate on big data and its fundamental rights implications, in particular on data protection, non-discrimination and law enforcement is very timely and important. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms gomes, and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for having dedicated their time and energy to this topic. we are facing a new technological revolution driven by big data, artificial intelligence and robotics. big data and artificial intelligence holds huge potential for our strong industrial base and for the public sector and can help solve societal challenges, whether it is better health care, combating climate change and protecting the environment, more efficient transport, agricultural productivity – and the list can go on. as with any major technological development, there are significant challenges that we must deal with. i fully share the focus of the parliament on the need to ensure trust. big data needs a high level of personal data protection and strong security. in this regard the eu data protection reform the parliament and council adopted last year sets the highest data protection standards in the world. for example, the regulation reinforces the tools allowing people to keep control over the use of their personal data. it will be easier for citizens to obtain the rectification or deletion of personal data. the regulation also introduces the right to portability and clarifies the notions of consent, profiling and transparency. data protection by design and data protection by default become essential principles. this helps businesses to develop new methods for security and protection of personal data. for the use of big data analytics, anonymisation and pseudonymisation are very important. the general data protection regulation promotes the use of such measures, rendering impossible the identification of the individual and disguising the identity of the person while keeping the data retraceable. data security measures such as encryption are also a useful tool to adequately protect personal data. as regards law enforcement, the data protection police directive stresses that where decisions with legal effects are taken on individuals, they are given the right to obtain human intervention. the principles of data processing, such as purpose limitation, no excessive collection, data security must be fully respected. in order to ensure that the legal framework is properly applied from its entry into application in may 2018, the commission’s focus is to work with member states – with the data protection authorities as well as with businesses and civil society – to ensure that the rules are well understood and that they will be applied in a uniform way all over the european union. we will also develop awareness-raising activities for citizens. the new rules also require that an appropriate level of security for personal data processing is ensured, depending on the risks and type of processing. and this is also a fundamental data protection principle. overall, cyber security is also important to ensure confidence, and the eu network and information security directive is also due for implementation next year. furthermore, the commission looks forward to the discussions and adoption of the e-privacy regulation, which will increase trust in electronic communications services – trust and protection, which must go hand in hand. finally, the commission is currently looking at how to ensure the free flow of non-personal data across sectors and across borders within the eu. the communication entitled building a european data economy was adopted on 10 january this year, and an online public consultation has been launched and is running until 26 april. in the near future, most economic activity will depend on data, but if data cannot move freely, our growth potential is limited. the communication looks at unjustified data location restrictions, access to data and how more data can become available for use and reuse. the more we have data availability and the more data is used, the better the data economy will develop. it is clear that alongside an adequate legal framework it is essential to take into consideration the ethical dimension of such activities. this is a shared concern across the world, and as politicians we have to remain vigilant on all these aspects.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march 2017.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr stefan eck on minimum requirements for the protection of rabbits for farming purposes (2016/2077 (ini)) (a8-0011/2017).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not rabbits are the second most farmed farm animal in the eu. the sector, however, accounts for only 1.1% of total european meat production. but we also need binding rules for niche products, especially when they affect animal welfare and food safety. in 2005, efsa pointed out that the mortality and disease rate of rabbits for fattening is significantly higher than for all other livestock species, in particular due to the non-species-specific battery cages that do not meet the natural needs of these animals. this is why the use of high doses of antibiotics is the norm. i need not go into what this means in terms of antibiotic resistance. legislation exists to provide for minimum standards for the protection of pigs, calves, laying hens and broilers. but there is no single legal provision on minimum standards for the protection of rabbits. in addition, demand for rabbit meat has been steadily declining in recent years, and for good reason. consumers are demanding higher animal welfare standards, as was made very clear in eurobarometer 442 on the attitudes of europeans towards animal welfare. consumers want more food safety, and they want high-quality products. more and more consumers are boycotting rabbit meat because of the animal cruelty that has been revealed. it is not without reason that last year well over 600 000 animal lovers from all over europe petitioned the commission and the council to ban battery cages. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is based on the principle of the protection of the health of animals, and the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is based on the principle of the protection of the health of animals. thirdly, to raise public awareness of the abusive conditions in rabbit farms. the final objective has already been achieved. the media has picked up the story and intends to cover the intolerable conditions. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. it is a question of the credibility of this parliament to decide to ban battery cages for laying hens, but - like the epp - we are doing everything we can to ensure that this method of keeping rabbits will be maintained for the foreseeable future. it is a very realistic approach not to see that my own-initiative report is in keeping with the demands for food safety, the improvement of animal welfare standards and the precarious situation of farmers. but how does the epp react? it launched an alternative motion for a resolution last week to defeat legislation to phase out battery storage under all circumstances and in the 2017 election year! what is to be said of european agriculture and animal welfare policy, which deliberately forgets one species and causes these animals to suffer immensely because there is no legislation? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is not reduced to mere words. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the citizens of the european union and the 330 million rabbits and rabbit farmers can count on a majority in this house tomorrow. end the cage age for rabbits now it's high time!
i thank you very much, mr eck, for your very dedicated contribution. i would ask you, however, to consider taking off your head covering in future when you speak in parliament. catch the eye
member of the commission. – mr president, first let me thank the rapporteur, mr eck, for his report on minimum standards for the protection of farm rabbits. the report provides a comprehensive overview of all dimensions of the welfare of farm rabbits. animal welfare forms an important part of the priorities of the commissioner for health and food safety. the report encourages the commission to take a number of non-legislative actions such as drawing up a roadmap to include guidelines on good practices and a commission recommendation relating to rabbit health, welfare and housing. the report also invites the commission to use scientific evidence as the basis for proposing new measures for housing requirements, for breeding does and for rabbits reared for meat production. i would remind the honourable members that all farmed animal species, including rabbits, are protected by the rules of directive 98/58 concerning the protection of animals kept for farming purposes. the directive requires that farmers take all responsible steps to ensure that animals under their care are not caused unnecessary pain, suffering or injury. in addition, in 2005 the european food safety authority published an opinion on the impact of the current housing and husbandry systems on the health and welfare of farmed domestic rabbits. this opinion provides member states and farmers with data on aspects of farming systems which may put the welfare of the rabbits at risk. the rules of the directive should be seen in conjunction with this opinion. rabbit production in the eu is essentially concentrated in a few member states mainly italy, spain and france. against this background and in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the commission takes the view that the member states involved are better placed to address the relevant issues concerning rabbit production. as honourable members will know, member states are primarily responsible for the implementation of eu legislation. better enforcement of the eu animal welfare legislation is one of the key priorities for animal welfare, and the commission has invested substantial resources in pursuit of this aim. this priority is particularly relevant because we continue to see a widespread lack of compliance regarding animal welfare rules across many member states. in consideration of this analysis and given its limited resources, the commission does not consider it appropriate to propose an initiative on the welfare of farm rabbits. however, the commission remains open to considering the topic within the framework of the newly established european animal welfare platform, provided there is sufficient commitment among the stakeholders to make progress in this area.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march 2017. the following are the provisions of the convention:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by julie girling on the responsible keeping and care of equidae (2016/2078 (ini)) (a8-0014/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the committee on agriculture and rural development, and in particular its chairman, mr siekierski, and the rapporteur, mrs girling, for the report on responsible ownership and care of equidae. this report provides an overview of the role of equidae, mainly horses, in today’s society and the importance of the equid sector in the eu economy. the commission agrees with the authors of the report that the risk to equine welfare needs to be effectively and specifically addressed by member states, relevant organisations and, of course, keepers of horses and other equidae. the existing animal welfare legislation concerning the keeping, transport and slaughter of animals provides a solid base for member states to protect the welfare of horses. the commission for its part will continue to audit the systems in place in member states to protect the welfare of animals and will act on its findings as and when necessary. as the honourable members will know, last year saw the adoption of the animal health law, a milestone in the development of eu animal health legislation, which provides for the responsible ownership of animals and requires keepers of animals to have a minimum knowledge of animal health and welfare. with the adoption of the regulation on animal breeding, specific measures have also been introduced, including for the preservation of the genetic diversity in livestock and equidae. i must also mention the proposal for a regulation on official controls, which we hope to conclude during this week’s plenary. the implementation of this new regulation will provide an opportunity to review the rules on traces and the collection and publication of data on the movements of animals and their products. in addition, a crucial role will be played by the future animal welfare reference centres. the discussion on end-of-life horses and imports of horsemeat from non-eu countries was also very important. in this context, i would remind the honourable members of the ongoing negotiation on the commission’s proposal on veterinary medicinal products, which is the suitable forum to address the relevant recommendations of the report as regards the administration of veterinary medicinal products to horses. as rightly pointed out in the report, guidance and education are variable supplements to legislation. in this regard, the commission actively promotes the exchange of best practices, in particular in the field of animal welfare, and has engaged in an enhanced stakeholder dialogue on relevant welfare issues. the recommended preparation of guidelines on good practices in the equine sector can be considered after the legal framework has been established. however, given the wealth of available advice for keepers of horses and other equidae in almost all member states, i would say that the eu added value of having such guidelines is not so apparent. let me be clear: the rising number of cases of compromised equine welfare is primarily caused by economics-related choices rather than a lack of accessible information. as regards the international dimension of the report, the commission would refer to various international agreements to which the eu and the member states are party, such as the wto agreement on the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures. meeting our international obligations should not prevent us from adopting higher standards where necessary to protect animal and public health and animal welfare, but such higher standards should, first and foremost, be applied within member states. the commission will continue to actively promote eu and international animal welfare standards in third countries. overall, i consider the report to be a balanced overview of the current challenges of the equid sector and note that most of the recommendations to the commission have already been broadly addressed and will be followed up, together with member states, relevant organisations and the equid sector. this report will no doubt assist the commission, member states and relevant organisations to keep a focus on equine health and welfare.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 14 march 2017.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
that concludes this item.
i declare the 2016-2017 session of the european parliament closed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this dossier, in particular rapporteur vicky ford, but also our shadow rapporteur anna corazza bildt and the socialist colleagues for the incredibly important work they have done on a commission proposal which was not initially as balanced as you have just presented it, commissioner king. so i thank you very much for that. the question is, in fact, what our response to the attacks in paris and elsewhere, which have affected us all very much, but in which legally acquired weapons have played little part. however, the freedom of the individual - and these are the legal gun owners - must be balanced against the safety of others. that's why they're two sides of the same coin. we cannot play security and freedom against each other. we must find the right middle ground. that is why i said from the beginning - and many colleagues have supported this - that we will not create new problems for honest gun owners with this directive. and we kept our word. we have organized a majority. it was a difficult debate because gun rights vary widely in the member states. the debate is still not quite over in some member states - and we have heard some rough voices here today - but it is still a matter of debate. there are elections in some member states. this is also an argument for many, and it cannot be ignored. nevertheless, a sensible compromise has been found between the interests of legal gun owners - especially sport shooters and hunters - and their interests and the objective of bringing about greater security in europe. i therefore hope that all colleagues will agree to this proposal today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are about 80 million legally owned firearms in the eu reason enough to question the current rules on the acquisition and possession of firearms. after all, it is a matter of public safety, and public safety concerns us all. the negotiations have produced a viable compromise, although i would have liked to see some of them have more courage to stand up to the massive pressure from the gun lobby, where hunters and sports shooters have been greatly discouraged by online campaigns with false information. well, anyway, in the interest of public safety, important improvements were made. in future, all essential components of weapons will be identified and registered. this makes it easier to trace and supports the work of the security authorities. the new rules require that the identity of the purchaser of an online weapon be verified by an authorised body, and that deactivated weapons be reported. this is where a security hole was closed, since deactivated weapons can be reactivated afterwards, and they were previously untraceable. these and other new regulations are designed to increase the security of citizens. that is why i support the compromise reached. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, i referred to the issue of deactivated weapons. i can only tell my colleague that i have personally been very well informed and have also spoken to representatives of the german police, for example, and i know that the reactivation of deactivated weapons is not so easy. but it is possible. and that's why it's important to set boundaries here.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. i have listened carefully to your explanations. you have indicated that the main concern should be illegal weapons. the epp group respects the responsibilities of the european union and therefore does not want to make it too difficult for the member states - i think you are from austria - to do exactly what they are responsible for. that is why i ask you: are you aware of this division of responsibilities and do you agree with me that the responsibility for combating illegal weapons would in this case lie with the republic of austria?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all agree that terrorism is something that is now plaguing europe, frightening european citizens, and we must do something together to combat it. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. as has been said here, the wrong target group has been put in the spotlight. it was also said that this is not about more cooperation between member states, which we need to combat terrorism. on the contrary, legal gun owners are being harassed. the rapporteur said that hunters are not affected, and the commissioner said the same thing. it was also said that the marksmen could continue to practice their sport if the member states agreed. the epp spoke of the free internal market. i ask myself: if we want the free internal market, why do we not make minimum standards for legal gun owners - including for sport shooters? why do we leave this to the member states and then have a back door ban? that is not proportionate, and therefore i would urge you to support alde in saying that we want to put our amendments to the vote before we go to the next vote. that would do the trick.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur also wants to use this method to combat terrorism, and she rightly receives opposition from her own group. the absurdity of this project is most clearly shown by the so-called lex helvetica: because the swiss are part of the schengen area, they are also covered by the arms directive. thanks to a lex helvetica, swiss veterans can keep their assault rifles. the eu made this exception to prevent a referendum on schengen membership from being held in switzerland. this exceptional provision is as clear as a parrot in a winter oak. the swiss assault rifle is a symbol of the equality of state and civil power. the state delegates a piece of its monopoly of violence to the citizen because it trusts him and because it knows that it cannot always be everywhere to protect all citizens. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in this. it's right to punish illegal gun ownership harshly. if someone illegally acquires a gun, he may be doing something wrong. but why should an unblemished citizen who is psychologically unremarkable and can demonstrate training in weapons science not own a gun? the cdu considers further tightening a middle way, the spd would like more. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must be honest, i find it increasingly intolerable to hear how the right wing of this house, these populists, are working over and over again with half-truths, with untruths, to make citizens uncertain. this is simply irresponsible! or have you ever seen a hunter go after a game with a kalashnikov or an assault rifle? i'm not the one. but have we ever seen a mass murderer use a semi-automatic rapid-fire weapon to kill people? that's the one. these are the questions we must answer. we must ensure that the security of our citizens is increased. we need to make sure that the traceability of the weapons is there so that the police can also look at where these illegal weapons are coming from, coming to the market. we must ensure that we really have a rule of law for the citizens, a rule of law that can also provide them with security. that is the purpose of this law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the question is, are they satisfied? i have spoken to many people in this area, and they are not satisfied. so we can't just say, "i want you to be happy, but you're not happy". and they are rightly not satisfied, because the regulation that is now being proposed is simply not proportionate. we cannot say that because we want to fight terrorism we are imposing new regulations on millions of law-abiding people. we have a lack of law in the eu, but we have a lack of implementation of laws, a lack of us, the institutions, not following the laws - we have to work on that. a safe europe is not created by introducing new laws, but by ensuring that existing laws are applied. i will reject this draft.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's report has come at a very unfortunate time, after the attacks in paris. and that's when the impression was created that the hunters and the sport shooters are the problem cases in europe. commissioner, they are not! the weapons that are in the hands of hunters and marksmen are in the very best hands, and they will remain so. that, mr president, has not changed. i would like to point out once again that the problem is indeed the illegal weapons, and i would like to add that it is not always the terrorist alone, but there are also a whole lot of handy criminals who use these weapons. i very much regret that the commission has not raised this issue and that it has not followed up. they could have done something about it during the debate - and we had a very engaged debate in my intergroup. you didn't. if i had written a paper like this in my school days, commissioner, aimed at combating illegal weapons, i would have had to rewrite it.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's good that we've moved on now, a year after you said it. i think it's become clear to all of us that this circular economy law, if you'll allow me to say it in my native language, is a groundbreaking tool. we have to tell people that it's not about throwing things away anymore, but it's about recycling things for the benefit of our children and grandchildren, because in 10 or 20 years they may not have the raw materials to build certain things. so i think we are at a point here, at a turning point. mrs bonafè, you have explained this beautifully, that we have to wake up. it's not always about the last percent recycling rate, but it's about the awareness of this society that we're using and recycling our raw materials better. 60% of our fuels and raw materials are burned in our own country. it is a disgrace, and we cannot allow it to continue. and the prices are skyrocketing. neodymium cost $25,000 seven years ago, and today it costs $700,000. it's a material for cell phones, but it's also a material for wind turbines. so we are rich parents, and our children are probably poor children. that's why we have to apply the hand brake. i am glad that we have an excellent rapporteur in mrs bonafè. the cooperation with her - i am glad to say this for my office, mrs philipp, who has been very active in working late at night: thank you for that. that was very neat. we have clear definitions today. we used to have six terms. what is recycling anyway? this is going to go into a corridor, and then we have a term, and then we don't have to talk about percentages. the high percentages today may not be so good after the new corrections and measurement methods. so that's where movement comes in. i am glad of this, because it is a movement for the benefit of our younger generation. commissioner, i would not have believed you, à la bonne heure, to be able to persevere like this, and with you, mrs bonafè, i have always known that you are able to persevere. we will accompany you, commissioner. we'll take you by the hand, and you'll have a good paper at the end.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the good result we have today: the rapporteur, mrs bonafè, of course, but also our shadow rapporteur, mr karl-heinz florenz, who has put things together very well and contributed to the overall result. we have to remember where we were two years ago: the proposal had been withdrawn and i think that would not have been necessary. we could have reached this conclusion if we had worked on the original proposal. but i am glad that the commission is able to learn, and i am very glad that vice-president frans timmermans has said that he would like to support the result that parliament is going to vote on now, and that we should be as close as possible to it whenever possible. we 're doing something for the environment . i would like to make two points. we have, when waste is landfilled, the generation of methane. methane is a worse climate gas than co2. and in my country, the biggest single contribution to climate change in recent years has come from reducing landfilling. so this is at least as important as other things in climate change. and we need to urgently address the problem of plastic and other materials polluting the oceans. we are contributing to both. but it is also about the raw materials of our children, as karl-heinz florenz always says, and it is about jobs, it is about jobs that we can safeguard and create through a sensible circular economy. i would like to end by pointing out one point where i believe we can improve the commission's proposal and make it less bureaucratic. it is about transporting small amounts of hazardous waste, for example: if a painter takes paint from the construction site, he should not be treated like a large waste company. i would be very grateful if the commission could look at this in more detail and give its support.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. vice-president timmermans, you promised that the new circular economy package would be better than the old one. i think that is what mr liese has said. i believe that with what parliament is deciding today that will indeed be the case. we have more ambitious targets, we have better mechanisms and proposals to reduce the waste mountain and to recycle as much of the raw materials as possible. now we are waiting for the second pillar, which is still to come, namely the action plan with the ecodesign proposals. it must start with product policy and not just with the disposal of products in circulation. we are anxious to see what you will present us with in the action plan before the next european elections. there is no question: we want to move away from the throwaway society to a circular economy. there are many good suggestions. i thank mrs bonafè and all the rapporteurs who have contributed to this.
mr president, as the british parliament passed the brexit bill yesterday evening and article 50 will be triggered by the end of the month, you should urge the brexiteers in this house to give up leadership positions before the april part—session. is it not absurd that mr farage, who wants to destroy the eu, gets almost 260 daily allowances a year without doing any work in the committees in this house? if he were to stand by his convictions, he would refuse the privileges of those who want to remain in the eu.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we call it the global gag rule, but what are we actually talking about? we are talking about the lives and the well-being of millions of women worldwide. we are talking about girls getting support after being victimized by female genital mutilation. we are talking about maternity care for pregnant women. and, mr škripek, i think it shameful that you are insulting family planning organisations here by calling them an abortion industry, whereas sometimes they risk their lives and their well-being to help women who are at risk of serious health damage. i find that unbelievable and we should not accept it as parliamentarians in this chamber: these organisations are doing great work. we are talking about access to contraception here. we are talking about providing sex education, but we are also talking about giving women power over family planning and hence their freedom to decide about their own lives and be an equal part of society. we are talking about progress within societies. we are talking, indeed, about the sustainable development goals, and, sadly, we are talking about an old white man in the white house who, in one of his first actions in power, has threatened all of these things. approximately usd 600 million could be lost. we cannot let this happen. so, commissioner, i urge you to increase the eu funding, to counteract and fill this decency gap, and also to take a very clear message to our colleagues in the us: we, as the european union, will fight for the freedom and self-determination of women and girls all over the world.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not today's issue is funding for abortion organizations. the us has decided to stop funding abortion, and now the eu wants to jump in. abortion is not a matter for the european union. we cannot finance something for which we are not responsible. where do we go from here? besides, in germany abortion is still a crime! it is only in exceptional cases that it is not punishable. the only good thing about this debate is that we're finally getting real and you're stopping talking about reproductive health, humanity and child protection. it's about abortion! it's about ending the lives of unborn children. i think that's something that can be said quite objectively, and even you won't deny it. the eu is not responsible for this. abortion is a crime. we must stop trying to finance these things which are not our responsibility and which are criminal acts, and instead concentrate on protecting life rather than ending it! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so the global gag rule is about abortion, accurately and precisely. it's not about the whole other thing, it's about abortion, ending life. and if you're always talking about women having rights over their bodies, yes, but maybe even before they give birth. this claim to a right over one's own body begins before procreation, and in 98% of cases it is not rape that leads to an unwanted life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a shame that the new us administration under trump no longer wants to fund family planning projects in developing countries. the new us administration is accepting that the 18 million unsafe and illegal abortions and maternal mortality in the developing world will increase. this also means that in the case of rape, safe abortion services are no longer available. that mrs von storch of the afd doesn't care is shocking and shows what a child of the mind she is. that is why i am calling on the us government to reverse its decision as soon as possible. i also welcome the initiative of the dutch government to try to close the emerging funding gap with other countries, including us foundations. more than 20 countries have already agreed to do so. unfortunately, germany has not yet taken a position on this. i call on the european commission to increase the resources available in this area in the short term. the eu's 2018 budget also needs to be increased in the area of sexual and reproductive health. the world is jointly responsible here, just as we have jointly adopted the development goals. the right to good health is also important for women it is a human right!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the un high commissioner for human rights for what he has done and achieved in the recent past. i think that deserves respect. however, i would simply like to criticise the fact that countries such as saudi arabia, china and egypt sit on the human rights council, which themselves are gross violators of human rights. i think there is no objective assessment here. i'm particularly interested in two countries: the first is western sahara, which is in danger of being forgotten by the rest of the world. i remind you of the ecj ruling: it has prohibited the eu trade agreement from being extended to western sahara. the commission had great difficulty in accepting this judgment in the first place. now is the time to put it into practice with all the consequences. these people need our help! i would remind you that the part of western sahara where you can do business is occupied by morocco, and that people who were born there, who were residents of that country, do not have access to those resources, and if they express even the slightest criticism in any way, they disappear into torture prisons, where things go in a way that i cannot describe here. the second thing i wanted to mention - very briefly - is the situation in palestine. you heard it: a few days ago, it was announced again that old arab settlements will be demolished and houses destroyed to make way for new israeli settlements. i believe that the eu must not remain silent on this matter either. i ask you, commissioner, to stand up for human rights - that is our trademark in the eu.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a very frequent discussion here about human rights. we are passing resolutions in this parliament. but not only in this parliament, in many institutions - official and unofficial - there are discussions, resolutions are being drawn up and it is suggested that things should improve somewhat. is our world really getting any better? i'm not so sure about that. and that is why i would first of all urge that we start acting wherever possible. that's the first thing. we must be prepared to actually fight for our views and to fight to get them passed. the second is that we have to act together. we need much better coordination between all the institutions, between the official, the unofficial, between the global institutions like the un and the very local institutions that deal with human rights. and i think we also have to think from time to time about what are the fundamental rights that are violated every day. violence against women is a daily occurrence all over the world. we're too often silent. we talk about this when it happens at a hotspot, but it's not unique to that. the right to freedom of expression is violated every day. and i think very important for us in the west, in the european union, we should have the courage to also denounce that freedom of belief, freedom of religion and freedom of religious practice is a basic right of every human being.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. today is a great day for animal welfare in this house by an overwhelming majority in the vote on my rabbit report. the epp has had to accept a rejection of its counter-proposal, which was aimed at maintaining the animal-torturing battery cage. the report on official controls is also very important for the strengthening and monitoring of animal welfare standards. the report provides the right impetus to ensure a higher level of traceability for our food by helping to strengthen existing rules and to ensure the adoption of new rules, at least in theory. unfortunately, this text is not yet an ambitious guide to ensuring food safety, which was not the fault of the rapporteur; it was the council's fault. however, there is a positive development that has been learned from past food scandals. for example, the report provides for unannounced checks in all sectors, better enforcement procedures in cases of fraud and clear rules for greater transparency, including with regard to the results of checks. however, the trilogue negotiations have also shown that we are faced with a wide gap between the good intentions of the legislators and the actual implementation in the member states, for example in border controls, in food transport or in the control of animal welfare standards in slaughterhouses. nevertheless, i support this report as a first step in the right direction and would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, karin kadenbach, and to her team for their valuable work.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank karin kadenbach and all those who have taken part, especially pilar ayuso, who has done so in our group. but she also pointed out: in the last parliament mr schnellhardt did important preparatory work. thank you to everyone who helped us get this result today. we must act when we look at the scandals, from horse meat to many other food scandals, where the european single market has been misused to deceive consumers and in some cases there have been health risks. i would like to stress three points which are important to me. first, we need deterrent punishment. in the case of horse meat, there have been cases where the economic benefit to the company from the fraud was greater than the penalty. we're done with that. it is very clear that there must be deterrent sanctions. we need unannounced checks, because firstly, we will discover black sheep, and secondly, everyone in the know must know: i can be checked unannounced in case of doubt. then the fraud will not even take place, because you know that you can be caught and then be severely punished. i would also like to comment on the question of fees, as do some of my colleagues. the commission's original proposal had the weakness that it would have forced member states to introduce compulsory fees for small food businesses such as restaurant owners, bakers, butchers, even if they were not to blame. it was a lot of trouble, and luckily, we worked it out. but now i would urge the member states: if you introduce charges, do not blame the european union for the black peter! it's just brussels bashing, which is really not appropriate here. if the member states want this, they must take the lead themselves. i'm grateful we cleared that up.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to address you on the essential topic of the fight against tax evasion, fraud and avoidance. this is a shared eu goal that has constantly been highlighted by the european parliament, the european council, the council and also the commission. similarly to previous presidencies, the maltese presidency has placed the fight against tax evasion, fraud and avoidance among its top priorities on the council’s agenda. the taxe resolution of july 2016 called for a significant number of measures to be adopted in a large number of areas. i will give you an update on the achievements reached to date in the council in reply to the general call for action. in a nutshell, the council completed work on the anti-tax-avoidance directive 1 and 2, on the administrative cooperation directive 4 and 5 and on defining criteria to establish a list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. more specifically, we have called on the member states to adopt measures to counter aggressive tax planning, tax avoidance and the particular mismatching tax qualifications that lead to cases of double non-taxation. in a joint effort to speed up our common fight against tax avoidance, the council reached two political agreements on an anti-tax-avoidance directive. the directive provides for a comprehensive framework of anti-abuse measures aimed at ensuring that taxation will happen where value is created. measures such as the control of foreign companies and anti-hybrid-mismatch measures that you mention in your report are no longer a wish but a binding reality for all member states. as a result, the european union can claim that the measures to counter base erosion and profit shifting, which were given impulse by the g20 and the oecd, have now been translated into the eu binding instrument. in several respects we went even further than the basic oecd recommendations. as regards transparency and exchange of information, i am also in a position to report that progress has been achieved on the administrative cooperation directive, as multinational companies will now be obliged to report key tax information on the amount of revenue, profit before income tax and income tax paid in each country where they do business. in order to reinforce transparency, tax authorities have also been given the competence to access anti-money-laundering information, in particular on the beneficial ownership of companies. furthermore, parliament also called for progress to be made on a common consolidated tax base. responding to that call, the commission issued two legislative proposals that the presidency has put on the table in the council. the council has identified a working method to deal with those proposals, starting with the common corporate tax base, and we are currently working on the new elements introduced by the commission on research and development, allowance for growth and investments and cross-border loss relief. we will also strive to increase tax certainty by, we hope, making as much progress as possible in establishing a mechanism that will improve double-taxation dispute resolution. this could be achieved by making alternative dispute resolution mechanisms binding, faster and more efficient. honourable members, turning to the code of conduct group on business taxation, developments aimed at improving its working methods and effectiveness have been undertaken. we have adopted two sets of conclusions which enhance the effectiveness of the code of conduct group. one of the group’s main tasks in the near future will be to finalise the process of establishing the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. i would also take this opportunity to recall that this is an inter-governmental exercise, to be carried out in the code of conduct group in conformity with the competences as set out in the treaties. to sum up, the presidency is striving to move forward systematically on the basis of a clear road map for the council’s work in the field of tax evasion, fraud and avoidance at eu level.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, there is a season, and this is it, to look at the successes and shortcomings of what we are doing as a union, with the aim of defining the way forward in the year ahead. assessing where we are today, where we need to go and where the added value of the eu actually lies, this is a useful contribution to the wider debate. therefore, i very much welcome your invitation to discuss the progress we have made and the work still to be done in delivering on one of the top priorities for eu citizens today, which is fair taxation. we know that taxation has a vital role to play in addressing some of the biggest challenges we face in europe today. the need for more social justice, the need for equal treatment and opportunities for all, and the need for stronger economic growth with more jobs and more investment. and that is why the commission has given the highest priority, as you know, to advancing an ambitious agenda for tax reform throughout our union. our agenda for fair taxation rests on the two twin pillars of transparency and effective taxation. with these pillars as our base, we have built a new, improved and crucially fairer corporate tax framework for the entire eu, and we have done so in a remarkably short space of time. first, the transparency revolution, which i called for in my wish, is taking shape. it is pushing our member states towards an unprecedented level of openness and cooperation on tax matters. the automatic exchange of information on tax rulings, tax rulings, country by country reporting, exchange of information on accounting and tax data between tax authorities, all this is now incorporated into european law. new eu rules will allow tax authorities to access information crucial to combating money laundering, to better ensure that audits and investigations are set. the commission has also responded to the appetite of our citizens, to the demands of our citizens for more information on the tax practices of multinationals, with this proposal, the country by country reporting, which i would like to remind you of the commission's commitment to publicity and transparency, and since 1 january this year, the member states have been automatically exchanging information on financial accounts, to ensure that the practice of bank secrecy is brought to an end and that anyone who tries to hide his money abroad can be seen. without a doubt, we have pushed transparency around tax systems and tax practices in europe with a real result, which is that we have taken a first step towards restoring public confidence in our tax systems. at the same time, we have worked tirelessly to ensure that all businesses, large and small, pay their taxes where they generate their profits. we now have anti-abuse rules that are binding on all forms of profit transfers, and that is what our anti-tax evasion directive says. this directive was accepted and voted by the council in record time. it has recently been supplemented by additional measures to deal with so-called hybrids with third countries as well. we have used - as you know - our state aid tools to deal with cases of unfair tax competition, and we have pushed - as the president recalled - the code of conduct to ensure that member states play fairly on the preferential regime. finally, i have relaunched the most ambitious tax project of all, the so-called ccctb, the common consolidated corporate tax base, and we want a tax system that is able to anticipate, that is able to rise to the challenges we face in taxing businesses today, and also in the future. our agenda for fair taxation over the past two years has also extended beyond the borders of our union. with today's globalized economy and interconnected markets, the external threats of base erosion and unfair competition cannot be ignored. therefore, we have stepped up our work to export a higher level of tax good governance worldwide, especially in the framework of the g20, and we will have a g20 meeting of finance ministers at the end of this week in baden-baden, for the first time in the presence of the secretary of the treasury, mr mnuchin, with whom i had the opportunity to exchange yesterday. our preferred approach is a cooperative one, to work closely with international partners for fairer competition, higher standards and a level playing field. we have positive incentives to achieve this, such as development head, eu funding and bilateral agreements, and we continue to be active players in shaping the tax agenda in international forums such as the g20 and oecd. however, there are some countries that consistently refuse to play fair, despite our best efforts to collaborate with them. with these countries it is time to play tough. by the end of this year, the first eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions will be published, along with appropriate common sanctions, and it will be something very important. our member states are honouring their international tax commitments, so other countries must do the same. honourable members, you have asked for an update on how the commission responded to the recommendations of the taxe 1 and taxe 2 committees. the brief overview that i have just provided should reassure you that our agenda fully reflects and respects the expectations of this parliament. as i always say, we are on the same side, respecting our diversity and our differences, but fighting for the same cause. many of the actions called for by taxe are now binding in eu law. many of taxe's recommendations are now robust commission proposals awaiting the agreement of the member states. let me give you just a few examples, which prove that our institutions have a shared vision on what is needed to secure fair taxation. the eu list: transparency on tax rulings; improved anti-money laundering provisions; public country-by-country reporting; tighter rules for patent boxes; the relaunched ccctb. these were all recommended by parliament and proposed by the commission, some of them adopted by member states. and there is more to come. for example, in line with taxe's report, we will propose greater scrutiny on auditors and intermediaries by the summer, to clamp down on those that promote aggressive tax planning schemes. we are also exploring how to better protect whistle-blowers and are examining ways to boost transparency on beneficial owners. for the commission, the work of taxe 1 and 2 has been a valuable asset, both as a source of inspiration and as a strong political backing for the many new initiatives we have brought forward. i have every confidence that we can rely on the same positive relations with the pana committee as it advances with its work, and i am fully ready to cooperate with this committee, as i did with the previous ones. you also asked specifically about the reform of the code of conduct, which was among taxe's recommendations. on this particular point the results, i must say, are mixed. the commission pushed very hard for an ambitious reform to make the code more relevant, more transparent and more accountable. some progress has been made; for example, the code is now committed to more regular and transparent reporting of its activities, and the chair of the code will appear before this parliament, as well as ecofin, when needed. in terms of the content of the code itself, technical work has begun to review the criteria, so that they are more relevant to modern realities. but i have to admit that so far, the scope and pace of the reform in council has not been as fast as i, and i know as many of you, would like. i do think that more could and must be done if member states got fully beyond this project. a new chair has recently been appointed to the code group, and this creates potential for a new momentum to be injected into the reform process. so i would suggest that you keep up the political pressure on your side for real and meaningful improvements to the code of conduct. for our part, the commission will provide all the support we can to this process. looking ahead, i would stress that the many achievements so far in our fair taxation agenda should not be an excuse for any complacency. if anything, we need to be more vigilant than ever in ensuring that the momentum is maintained. proposals must be agreed, commitments must be respected and legislation must be properly implemented. as already indicated, the commission is working on more new initiatives to reinforce transparency and fairness in our tax systems, and we will continue to respond quickly and decisively to new challenges as they arise. however, we are not the only institution with obligations to fulfil: important proposals which need to be agreed quickly i am aware of that are in your hands now, notably public country-by-country reporting and revision of the anti-money laundering directive. i would encourage you to use your combined forces of ambition and pragmatism in order to reach consensus with the council as soon as possible. i would also urge you to keep the spotlight on crucial files such as the ccctb, which rely entirely on the agreement of our member states to become a reality. as we have seen before, political and public pressure has a powerful capacity to deliver results. it is the most powerful capacity. i hope that i have been able to reassure you today, and to convince you that when it comes to european taxation and taxation, the positions, suggestions and demands of this parliament are taken very seriously. your input has an extraordinarily positive impact on our agenda. your attention, your vigilance, your political demand have helped us, and even helped me, to achieve results that were unthinkable in the past, at an absolutely record speed and in a way that would have seemed absolutely unimaginable a few years ago. we have our merits. there is also, of course, the crisis, the crises, the scandals that have been experienced and which have put greater pressure on the member states. i would like to conclude by thanking you for your partnership, for your support in this joint work for a fair taxation for all businesses and for the benefit of all our fellow citizens who are aware that there is a field here that was unlikely a while ago, and is really very powerful, for a real proof of the effectiveness and the necessity of european construction.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not if i have heard what has been said here - once by the minister from malta - then everything is on the right track. the presidency's priority was not tax justice, and malta's practice is still lacking, despite all the progress made. mr moscovici has now spent 14 minutes and 30 seconds explaining what you are up to. he is apparently on his way out now. it is very kind of you, commissioner, to leave now, when parliament is leading the debate! i don't think you should do that. you should have stayed here and listened! because what you have announced here is an ambitious programme. when half of that is achieved by the end of 2017, we will give you our biggest applause. the member states have so far blocked this, and to a large extent. and if transparency is considered the most important point here, i can only say that transparency is not guaranteed. we, the panama committee, have seen the documents of the code of conduct group: the most important parts of the negotiations between the member states are obscured. this is a provocation by parliament to give us documents which have passed through your hands, but you are not responsible, commissioner, for the fact that the crucial passages are blacked out. and here the commission and the maltese representative of the presidency are preaching more transparency as the main issue. so there's a lot to catch up on. i would like to express my gratitude to taxe 1 and 2, because it is true that without taxe 1 and 2 - and i am looking at the chairman, alain lamassoure - this public pressure would not have been possible. taxe was primarily about tax rulings and behaviour, systems of settlement that member states tolerate unfair tax competition initiated by member states. panama is about individual behaviour of market participants, of banks, of lawyers, of tax advisers, and there is still a lot to be done. i can only encourage you to put into practice the great successes announced here by both sides. we will not relent! we know that the commission is in good faith, that you want to help - no question at all, commissioner. but the common instruments that have been denied us, in terms of information and transparency and influence, the fact that under the pretext of unanimity in tax policy for decades here a system has been tolerated by the member states which is not accountable to the citizens: that is our subject, and we will pursue it, and we will also, if necessary, refer the responsible persons to the panama committee!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to expressly endorse the words of mr langen and thank the commission for taking up what we were asking for, for introducing legislation where the taxe committee asked for it. i would like to express my concern to the maltese representative, who has shed light on various points which have been raised, but who has always, in my view, shed light only on the side on which the sun is shining. we have ignored the shadow pages, and i would like to return to them for a moment. you have rightly pointed out that we should now start drawing up a list of non-cooperative territories and have the code of conduct group draw it up. but they don't explicitly have as a criterion that a non-cooperative area, where you have zero percent taxation, is a tax haven. excuse me: what is a tax haven if not a country where there is no corporate tax? can you explain that to me? i don't think you can explain that to anyone outside. then you were right to say that in future we will have a better overview of what multinational companies pay in taxes, that we will have country-specific reporting. however, they did not indicate that this is limited to companies with annual turnover of more than 750 million. but this leaves over 90% of europe's international companies out of the picture. that's not enough! 40 million in turnover is the threshold we have in europe for large companies. you have to be brave. i would like to ask you to take the initiative and to go to all the companies that should be affected and take legal action. i would also like to see the economic owners published in the future. you have rightly pointed out that we have made a strong step forward in this respect. we demand that no more trade be allowed with such companies in the eu. have courage! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not since luxleaks, eu member states have vowed to fight corporate tax fraud. we are losing hundreds of billions of euros a year to disney, mcdonalds and co, while the eu is threatening to fall apart because of austerity, because of a lack of investment. but the truth is not on the pitch, but in the cockpit behind closed doors, where it stinks like football. the code of conduct group has been responsible for combating harmful tax competition for 20 years. and since then, she's been playing like a dog. the maltese government is also mentioned, and it is one of the countries that has softened the criteria for the blacklist. try explaining to one of the people in the audience here why you're not a tax haven if you don't collect taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of veto in the event of a dispute between the council and the commission. mr juncker was also a constant obstacle to progress, as documents i examined with my colleague sven giegold show. without reform of the code group and the eu treaties, we will be held back again and again whether by blacklisting tax havens or by consolidating the determination of corporate profits in the eu . however, this is not only the case in luxembourg, but also in germany, for example, because it blocks public reporting by groups. keyword variable geometry: what if a coalition of the willing - germany and france - finally moved forward on minimum taxes and penalties for financial flows in tax havens, until a reform of the eu treaties? the left group also complains that the code group has been given full access to its documents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, it is important to be clear that a number of things have changed since the big scandals. we have taken a number of decisions at international level, at the level of the g20 and at european level, which would have been considered utterly utopian a few years ago. we have seen progress in the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax avoidance. but unfortunately, we are seeing a relapse. i have to say to you very directly in the council: whatever commission proposal you take, you always delay! you always water down! they only know one direction in tax cooperation: backwards. mr moscovici has presented everything he promised us. mr juncker has presented what he promised us. he has become paul here, a little bit, from saul. unfortunately, none of this is helpful, because the member states are doing exactly what you said here: they think that this is a matter of intergovernmental cooperation. but that is not what the european treaties say. the european treaties provide for a fair internal market which is in line with the social market economy. and in the field of taxation, this means unanimity in the council, but unfortunately not intergovernmentalism. it is therefore right that the commission should now draw the right conclusions from the watered-down nature of the latest proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it says that if markets are distorted, decisions in the tax field can also be taken by majority voting in the council and with the participation of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. article 116 is the way forward, mr oettinger! i hope that the commission will put forward its next proposals in this area on the basis of a strong european democracy, so that the tax loopholes will finally be closed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the draft presented contains many correct priorities. i would like to mention in particular the security of citizens, the competitiveness that needs to be increased, but also investment in research and innovation, which ultimately means that we need to further raise the standard of education throughout the eu. at the same time, there is light and shadow in this design, especially in the basic course settings. on the positive side, i would like to stress that this draft shows that jobs are mainly created in the private sector, and also that migration is finally recognised, that it must be tackled by investing in the countries of origin of migrants so at the sources of the causes . that means we have to invest there. it is also important that we integrate ad hoc financial instruments into the budget in future, because this is an effective measure against shadow budgets. all of these are significant improvements over previous years. however, i would also like to say that there are still some points on which we are not satisfied, because there is still no overall eu approach to the very great challenge of the migration crisis. but we should make it dependent on how much money we spend where. there are also theatres of war that we continue to study. i'm counting the interrail ticket. this will cost us several hundred million euros, depending on how it is implemented. i don't think that's the right focus. it is also very important that we do not give the impression that the eu budget is a panacea for all crises. it can't be. more realism is in order here. in conclusion, i would like to express my appreciation for the work of our colleague, mr siegfried mureşan, and therefore say that we, as the ecr group, will not reject this draft for the first time in many years. we shall abstain from voting because we see that it is clearly a step in the right direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this evening we are discussing the eu budget for the coming year. they want more money, and they want to be able to collect their own taxes because the money is not enough anymore, for example because of the refugee crisis. some countries have not protected their borders, they have let migrants in and not registered a breach of the law. they sent her on, another violation of the law. and then mrs merkel let them all enter germany, which she wanted to do - another breach of the law. so the refugee crisis is a result of all the countries not complying with the eu law. we have a crisis of law. and now instead of criticizing these violations of the law, you're demanding more money. what if you simply demanded that the law be respected, that the law be respected, for example, the dublin rules? i 'm watching the breaking news . the eu parliament calls for the dublin rules to be respected. that would be a real sensation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the former un high commissioner for refugees and current un secretary-general recently warned that millions of people in sub-saharan africa are facing starvation. but to whom does he appeal? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that drought and natural disasters are only a small part of the reason why so many people are in such dire straits. the threat of starvation and death to millions of people in nigeria, somalia, south sudan and yemen - as previous speakers have said - is primarily and profoundly political. corrupt rulers wage senseless wars and civil wars, while the world watches in silence. where the causes of hunger, poverty, flight and displacement are political, political solutions are needed! who benefits from spending 100 million euros trying to treat symptoms? this is a commandment of charity and, commissioner, i thank you for taking up this task. but if we don't get to the root of the evil, we'll just have to drop the famous drop on the hot rock there. the situation is aggravated by the fact that many relief supplies, according to aid organizations, do not reach those in need or are already attacked and robbed. two eu countries are permanent members of the un security council, and three more are non-permanent members this year. it is time we also took action there to ensure that those responsible for creating these emergencies are held accountable and finally sanctioned.
president of the european council. – mr president, prime minister gentiloni, deputy prime minister grech, president juncker, members of the european parliament, leaders met last thursday for the march european council, and, a day later, 27 leaders met to discuss the future of the european union before the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome. our discussions were constructive and focused, despite a little drama at the beginning. i will start with the european council meeting itself. following an implementation report from prime minister muscat, we discussed the progress on our migration priorities as set down by leaders in the malta declaration of 3 february. work has begun but now needs to accelerate in order to start delivering results ahead of what we know will be a challenging summer. secondly, leaders discussed the prospects for the eu and euro area economies, together with the president of the european central bank. things are getting better, and they are getting better in every member state of the union. this proves that our economic strategies are on the right track. although unemployment is at its lowest level since 2009, leaders were clear on the need to get it down further, particularly in the most affected regions. job creation will remain our priority. it is the best means to tackle inequality and social injustice. leaders confirmed the eu’s position as the champion of open, rules-based free and fair trade. trade is central to european economic success and as i mentioned several weeks ago, europe needs to intensify trade talks with our partners around the world, not least due to signs of protectionism emerging elsewhere. we agreed to swiftly advance ongoing negotiations, such as with japan, which are most advanced, with mercosur and mexico. already next week we will discuss with president juncker how to progress in our trade deal with japan when we host prime minister abe in brussels. our sincere hope is to finalise these talks this year. leaders expressed their will to strengthen trade relations with china. at the same time, we will not hesitate to defend ourselves against unfair trading practices, wherever necessary. we welcome the european parliament’s strong commitment to making quick progress on the relevant legislation. it will help europe set the global standard for free and fair trade. in the evening, we discussed the tense situation in the western balkans. it was clear to all that forces inside and outside are working vigorously to destabilise the region. that is why leaders reaffirmed their unequivocal support for the western balkans, and its european perspective. we also expressed our full commitment to support eu-oriented reforms and ongoing projects. the european union remains faithful to the promise of thessaloniki and fully committed to the region’s stability and prosperity. i hope this positive signal from europe will be heard. leaders also reviewed progress made in the area of security and defence cooperation, where the european council gave a new impetus last december as a strategic priority. leaders agreed to come back to this again in june. dear members, on friday, we met informally as 27 ahead of the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome. there was an honest and constructive discussion about our common future. it focused on what should be the main elements of the rome declaration and our agenda going forward. it was clear from the debate that the unity of the 27 will be our most precious asset. at our last meeting in malta, subsequent opinions voiced by some member states as well as the european commission’s white paper leave us in no doubt that the idea of a multi-speed europe will be one of the discussions ahead of the rome anniversary, and i understand the reasons for this. some expect systemic changes that would loosen intra-eu ties and strengthen the role of nations in relation to the community. others, quite the opposite, are looking for new, deeper dimensions of integration, even if they would apply only to some member states. such a possibility is indeed foreseen in the treaties currently in force. however, considering the interests of the community of 27 countries in the context of the upcoming brexit negotiations as well as the long-term strategic interests of the eu, i will be urging everyone to strive towards maintaining political unity among the 27. this is why, when discussing the various scenarios for europe, our main objective should be to strengthen mutual trust and unity among 27. after last week’s debate, i can openly say that all 27 leaders agree with this objective. it was a relatively optimistic discussion about our common future, with a positive approach from all sides, without any exception. as i said after the meeting itself, ‘if you want to go fast, go alone. if you want to go far, go together’. it is our collective intention to mark the 60th anniversary with the sense of celebration and sober reflection that it deserves. jean-claude and i continue to work closely with prime ministers gentiloni and muscat on this, and i want to thank them both for their efforts and dedication. finally, on my re-appointment as president of the european council, i have nothing further to say except to reiterate that i am really grateful for the trust that has been placed in me and absolutely determined to work with all member states and institutions to make the eu better and more united. dear members, brexit was not on our agenda last week, but let me share two remarks, given that this is our last meeting before the uk triggers article 50. i will do everything in my power to make sure that the eu and the uk will be close friends in the future. britain will be dearly missed as an eu member state. at the same time, i would like to stress again that the eu’s door will always remain open for our british friends. when it comes to negotiations, we will have no choice but to start the withdrawal talks once the uk notifies. we are carefully preparing for these negotiations, in close consultation with member states and the european parliament. it is our wish to make this process constructive, and conducted in an orderly manner. however, the claims, increasingly taking the form of threats, that no agreement will be good for the uk, and bad for the eu, need to be addressed. i want to be clear that a ‘no deal scenario’ would be bad for everyone, but above all for the uk, because it would leave a number of issues unresolved. we will not be intimidated by threats, and i can assure you they simply will not work. our goal is to have a smooth divorce and a good framework for the future, and it is good to know that prime minister theresa may shares this view. there is one final thing i would like to say about the netherlands, after what happened over the weekend. the netherlands is europe, and today i want to say that europe is the netherlands. a place of freedom and democracy. and for sure rotterdam, the city of erasmus, brutally destroyed by the nazis, which today has a mayor born in morocco. if anyone sees fascism in rotterdam, they are completely detached from reality. (applause)we all show solidarity with the netherlands. out of respect for our friends in the netherlands, let me repeat this in dutch. nederland is europa en europa is nederland, plaats van vrijheid en democratie. zeker rotterdam, stad van erasmus, door de nazi’s kapotgeschoten, vandaag met een in marokko geboren burgemeester. dat heeft met fascisme niets te maken. we zijn allen solidair met nederland. yes, we are europeans and we are proud. (applause)
president of the commission. – mr president, my dutch is better than yours, but i will not prove that now. i have a good passive understanding of dutch, and when i speak dutch it is better than that spoken by the president of the council, but i recognise that he made a huge effort to address the dutch nation. by the way, following your assessment, i was scandalised by what was said by turkey about the netherlands, germany and others. i will never accept this comparison between the nazis and governments now. (applause) my home country, luxembourg, was occupied by the nazis. our people suffered. my father was forced into the german army, together with his three brothers. if you are drawing a comparison between that period and the present time, this is totally unacceptable. the one doing this is distancing himself from europe, not trying to enter the european union. the european union is not joining turkey. turkey is joining the european union. (applause) i would like to congratulate my good friend donald on his re-election. (applause) it was the first meeting the european council had in its new building. i refer to this new building as the tusk tower. i prefer the tusk tower to the other one. i am happy that donald has been re—elected because not only do we have excellent personal relations, but we also have good interinstitutional relations. i am very grateful for that. things could have happened differently, because my first ambition was to become president of the european council. now you are there, i am here and it is excellent like that. i am the best president of the commission in comparison to you, and you are a better president of the european council in comparison to me, so everything is ok. (murmurs) i am happy that i have woken up the extreme right of the parliament. lors du conseil européen de la semaine passée, nous avons eu un débat intense sur les balkans occidentaux. je voudrais dire ici, au nom de la commission et au nom de la haute représentante, qui est aussi vice-présidente de la commission – donc une personnalité obligatoirement schizophrène – qu’en tant que commission, nous voulons offrir aux pays des balkans occidentaux, une perspective européenne non équivoque. je sais que lorsque j’ai dit au début de notre mandat qu’il n’y aurait pas de nouvelles adhésions avant 2019, cette phrase a créé la confusion dans les balkans. or, nous continuons nos débats, nos négociations d’adhésion avec les pays des balkans. c’est la région la plus compliquée d’europe et nous devons apporter à nos relations avec les pays des balkans occidentaux tous les soins requis. les conclusions que nous avons adoptées à 27 – parce que la pologne, pour des raisons inexplicables, n’a pas pu se joindre aux conclusions du conseil européen –, disent très clairement quelles sont nos ambitions et nos intentions en ce qui concerne les balkans occidentaux. nous avons évoqué, entre nous, la situation économique de l’union européenne et de la zone euro en particulier. nous nous sommes félicités du fait que le chômage baisse, que la croissance augmente, que le taux d’emploi ne cesse d’augmenter, qu’il y a une création d’emplois tout à fait remarquable, mais cela ne devrait pas nous induire en erreur: l’europe n’est pas sortie de la crise économique qui est la sienne. la crise sociale perdure et nous devons donc apporter à toutes ces questions gravitant autour du sujet économico-social, toute notre attention. je voudrais que nous soyons prêts en avril, en tant que commission, pour adopter nos propositions concernant la mise en place d’un pilier des droits sociaux. au mois de novembre, en suède, nous aurons tous ensemble un débat sur la poursuite de la politique sociale en europe. je veux dire par là, un meilleur «ameublement» de la dimension sociale insuffisamment «meublée» jusqu’à ce jour. je voudrais qu’en novembre, nous puissions terminer ce débat. la raison pour laquelle la politique sociale n’a pas eu toute l’attention que certains d’entre vous auraient voulu qu’elle ait lors de la présentation du livre blanc, réside dans le fait qu’en matière de politique sociale, nous sommes sur le court terme, nous voulons mener à bon port le débat social au cours de cette année, alors que le livre blanc porte sur une durée plus longue puisqu’il vise, en termes d’accomplissement de nos ambitions, l’année 2025. il ne faut donc pas lire le livre blanc comme prenant congé, et prenant de la distance, par rapport aux ambitions sociales de l’europe. c’est pour tout de suite: l’europe sociale ne peut plus attendre, il faut la faire maintenant et pas seulement en 2025. (applaudissements) je suis tout de même toujours impressionné que lorsqu’on fait des blagues, lorsqu’on attaque les autres, les applaudissements du parlement sont nourris mais lorsqu’on parle de la politique sociale, vous êtes d’une timidité qui m’impressionne. (applaudissements) wir haben, herr präsident, anlässlich des rates der letzten woche auch über unsere handelsbeziehungen mit anderen teilen der welt gesprochen. ich möchte hier noch einmal zum ausdruck bringen – ich, der ich kein free trader bin – passt nicht zu mir –, dass wir als europäische union unsere chancen nützen müssen. die amerikaner gehen – so, wie es aussieht – auf distanz zu multilateralen handelsverträgen. das ist bedauernswert, aber es ist eine chance für uns, denn je mehr menschen ich aus asien, afrika und von sonst woher empfange, umso deutlicher wird mir klar, dass andere in der welt von uns erwarten, dass wir die führung in internationalen handelsfragen übernehmen. das sollten wir auch tun! die welt wartet auf europa, und wir müssen da sein, wenn die welt auf uns wartet. deshalb werden wir so schnell wie möglich – donald hat dies erwähnt – mit japan zum abschluss der freihandelsverhandlungen kommen. nicht zu den bedingungen, die uns nicht passen, sondern zu den bedingungen, wünschen, herausforderungen, bedürfnissen, die wir uns selbst geschrieben haben. wir – herr tusk und ich – werden den japanischen premierminister am 21. märz, glaube ich, in brüssel empfangen. und wir werden dies so schnell wie nur irgendwie möglich in die richtige richtung bewegen. und ich hätte gerne – ist frau malmström da? –, dass frau malmström sich vor abschluss der verhandlungen mit japan noch einmal mit den sozialpartnern zusammensetzt, weil ich strikt der auffassung bin, dass wir nicht alleine – so aus gottes gewalt heraus – handelsverträge abschließen können. wir müssen auch mit anderen darüber reden: mit der zivilgesellschaft, mit den sozialpartnern und mit anderen. zu verteidigungsfragen sage ich nichts, weil federica da führend ist. only one sentence on defence: i think that the point the us is making is right. we have to take care of our own defence and we have to increase our defence budget. mr trump is not the first one to say this. mr trump is the fourth president of the united states i have had to deal with. george w bush, clinton and obama were saying exactly the same, and we made a commitment. i think in wales – which is part of britain – we signed a commitment, and we have to respect that commitment, but i am strictly against this restricted concept of defence. international – planetary – stability is more than defence expenditure. aid development, money for humanitarian action by our countries, is as important as military expenditure, and i would like to insist on that. was das weißbuch der kommission anbelangt, haben wir – obwohl das nicht auf der tagesordnung stand – uns damit beschäftigen müssen. ich werde dazu nichts weiter sagen, als dass ich hier noch einmal wiederhole, dass es eine verkürzung der lektüre des weißbuches ist, diese lektüre ausschließlich auf das europa der zwei oder mehreren geschwindigkeiten zu begrenzen. hätte frau merkel nicht in einer pressekonferenz nach dem vormaligen europäischen rat davon gesprochen, dann hätte dies überhaupt nicht die bedeutung gekriegt, die es gekriegt hat. ich möchte noch einmal deutlich machen: es geht uns nicht darum, einen neuen eisernen vorhang zwischen ost und west in europa zu ziehen. es geht uns darum, dass wir deutlich machen, dass, wenn nicht alle können oder wollen, wir in sachen vertiefung der europäischen integration nicht weitergehen können. und im übrigen, wenn sie sich das mal im detail ansehen: dort, wo es bis jetzt verstärkte zusammenarbeit gegeben hat, werden sie unschwer feststellen können, dass in allen fällen alle sogenannten neuen mitgliedstaaten – ich mag diesen ausdruck nicht – bei verstärkter zusammenarbeit mitmachen, aber einige gründungsmitglieder nicht mitmachen. beispiel europäische staatsanwaltschaft: wer macht nicht mit? die niederlande. wer macht mit? alle 2004 beigetretenen mitgliedstaaten der europäischen union. also diese vorstellung, dass dies ein entwurf wäre, um europa wiederum in zwei teile aufzuteilen, ist ein vorwurf, der die wirklichkeit nicht trifft. ich wäre froh, wenn jetzt alle in europa – europaparlament, nationale parlamente, whosoever – sich an dieser breit angelegten debatte über die europäische zukunft beteiligen würden. die kommission wollte nicht ein diktat vorlegen. wir wollten nicht sagen: so muss es sein, und so darf es nicht sein – obwohl ich das szenario 2 hier im parlament ausgeschlossen habe. europa ist mehr als binnenmarkt, als macht, als geld und als warenaustausch! europa ist zuvorderst das europa der menschen! deshalb erhält dieses kleine szenario, das nur einen europäischen binnenmarkt vorsieht, nicht meine zustimmung. aber ich hätte gerne, dass wir alle diese optionen diskutieren. das sind nicht die optionen der kommission, das sind die optionen, die sich zurzeit in der debatte befinden. und ich hätte gerne, dass wir uns bei dieser debatte nicht ducken, sondern dass wir alle elemente in betracht ziehen, auch die berichte, die das europäische parlament im letzten monat angenommen hat. ich bedanke mich für die aufmerksamkeit.
president of the italian council. thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the president of the european parliament for this opportunity to address you ten days after the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome. i think that this should be an opportunity first of all to remind our public opinion, our fellow europeans, of the achievements of the last 60 years: the european union is a superpower, and it is not just the european union that is a superpower, but also the european union itself, the peace, freedom, the social protection levels that we have achieved despite all the difficulties, the single market, a success story that has led to the european union being described as a 'quiet' superpower, and finally the work we have done in the field of culture, values and the sharing of our common ways of life. i think that remembering these results is a good way to think about the future. if we do not do the first, we shall have difficulty in imagining the next years of the european union, and we must do so above all because we are aware that we are going through one of the most difficult moments in the construction of europe, perhaps one of the most uncertain moments of these 60 years, which in some ways recalls the years before the signing of the treaties of rome, when there were difficulties, different attempts, but we lived in a world very, very far from today. the difficulties today stem from the legitimate decision taken on 23 june by a large european country to leave the union, from the fact that the effects of the economic crisis are not at all behind us, and from the difficulties we are facing in finding a common response to the migratory flows. these are difficulties that we must not underestimate: some even spoke of the risk of a kind of 'reverse 1989', in which europe is characterized by rebuilding walls, whereas 27 years ago it was characterized by breaking down walls. it is a risk we can and must prevent. looking ahead, i think we are all aware that the european parliament can make a fundamental contribution. the european council in brussels in december last year gave a clear signal that the european union is ready to take action. the böge-berès, bresso-brok and verhofstadt reports have made an important contribution to this reflection, which goes somewhat in parallel with the work that jean-claude juncker and the commission have prepared with their white paper, which we very much appreciated, because it is a useful tool for setting up this debate. but it's not just the contribution to the reflection: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. in a sense, it could be said that the european parliament's powers of codecision have been the most important achievement of the decade since lisbon and that in the next ten years the european parliament, this house, can be one of the driving forces behind the future of europe. i hope that we all share the same view on this. the rome declaration is intended to send a message of confidence in the union and its future ten years. the italian government is in favour of the relaunch of the union, of its integration: as always, the declaration will be a compromise between different needs, drives, aspirations, ambitions. but i think that some choices must be made loud and clear, and we discussed them first in malta and then in brussels a few days ago. first, to meet the demand for growth, investment and jobs. if we do not get out of the crisis, if we do not reduce the levels of unemployment, especially youth unemployment, in our union and in particular in some countries, we will have no confidence in the future of the union. secondly, to share the commitment to the security of our borders and to a common strategy for managing migration flows. if the countries which are at the forefront of managing migration flows are left alone, there will be no confidence in the future of the european union. (applause) thirdly, to strengthen our role in the world, including concrete steps towards common defence. if we give in to nationalism, to the opposition between individual states, even within the european union, there will be no confidence in the future of the union. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of social partners, to promote the development of social dialogue and to promote the social dialogue between the social partners. if we leave the weakest behind, there will be no confidence in the future of the european union. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, these are principles we must work on step by step: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a europe that is not moving is a europe that is destined to fall backwards. some progress can be made through enhanced cooperation as provided for in the treaties. this, i want to say very clearly in the chamber of the european parliament, will never lead to a europe of the a-series and a europe of the b-series. it will never lead to a europe of the small and a europe of the large countries. the european union is not a political union. but everyone has their own level of ambition; everyone can choose to participate - now and in the future - in forms of enhanced cooperation and everyone will be involved in the joint project. that said, europe cannot stand still and has a duty to its citizens to respond to the emergencies and challenges we face. more democracy, with citizens and their elected representatives at the centre, is the strongest guarantee that this common project can go ahead in the next ten years. as jean monnet said: "we are not uniting states, we are uniting men". that's why we're counting on you, and that's why i thank you.
president-in-office of the council. – president tajani, president tusk, president juncker, prime minister gentiloni, dear members, dear colleagues, as pointed out by previous speakers, the european union is not about brussels, it is not about strasbourg, nor is it about the institutions to which many of us involved in today’s debate belong. the european union is about its 500 million citizens and about their hopes, their fears and their aspirations. malta’s presidency is taking place within the context of the major political and economic upheavals that we have witnessed in recent years, including britain’s decision to leave. brexit is an unfortunate reality, but we have to move on. we cannot allow brexit, no matter how much it may be in the headlines and how complex and delicate an issue it is, to distract us from, and create wedges in, our central mission. talk of an existential crisis has become the norm. yes, we are living in times of extraordinary unpredictability and it would be a big mistake to underestimate the major setbacks and challenges, but it would be an even bigger mistake to fall into a negative mind-set and resign ourselves to doing nothing. the buck stops with us. never has there been a more important time for member states and the institutions to remain united, never has there been such a crucial time for all of us to focus on the big picture and shut out potentially distracting, unnecessarily divisive issues. we must face up to the reality that europeans’ horizons have shifted. many feel disenfranchised or disillusioned. it is up to us to show why european added value can be tangibly translated into citizen added value. as presidency, our overarching theme is reunion – a reunion which fosters a climate in which the union can once again regain the trust and confidence in the european project and secure its strong and viable existence. at this critical moment, we have to avoid unnecessary divisions and internal strife, and we have deliberately steered the debate on europe’s future in this direction. we must rethink our priorities, rethink what resources we put into various policies, and usher in reform where necessary. having said that, reform does not mean a whole redesign of europe. we have the commission’s white paper, as well as a number of parliament reports on europe’s future. some options, to me, seem to be more attractive than others and, who knows, there may be other options which have not yet been brought to the table. however, i also believe that, whichever way we eventually choose to go, it will not create first and second-class citizens or result in kneejerk reactions or quick-fix solutions which foster unnecessary tensions and distrust. this could pave the way for the eventual erosion of unity. irrespective of whether member states opt to drive in second, third or fourth gear, neutral is not an option. we must use as a basic platform the established principles: respect for human rights and dignity, freedom, equality and rule of law. these are the values that reflect the soul of the union and form the core of any future europe. we – i think i should rephrase that – most of us believe in a future europe that upholds the fundamental value of solidarity on issues like migration, and in a europe that strives to guarantee the safety and security of its citizens. we believe in creating better conditions for growth, jobs and higher living standards through the union’s single market. current indicators show that we have, once again, started to register successes. we believe that the union should be should be robustly positioned to shape and manage better globalisation, not merely react to it. a strong europe is needed to bring about the right balance in a world order which is shifting. we believe in a europe that fights for a healthy environment, yet europe will only be viable if it is socially responsible, equitable and just, and if it is significantly moulded from the bottom up, not from the top down. make no mistake: europe will only be credible if it delivers on its decisions. in rome, member states will reaffirm our commitment to a united europe, but the declaration is not an end in itself: far from it. any progress registered on the future of europe must be followed up and translated into action. a coordinated action by the institutions is absolutely vital. having spent almost nine years myself in this institution, i know how crucial and meaningful parliament’s continuous role and participation is in this defining moment for the future shaping of the european project. colleagues, we need to draw on this momentum and galvanise and energise our forces to forge a stronger, better union. we have a fragile balancing act to perform: a balance between flexibility, which is not so loose as to threaten the meaning of a real union, and intransigent rigidity which would undermine the whole process of the european project. we believe that success belongs to those who can harness positive forces that unite rather than divide. we believe in a better europe, our young people believe in a better europe, and we believe that the union has what it takes to move forward.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank prime minister gentiloni for taking the time to come to the european parliament and listen to the proceedings before the rome celebrations. that's a very good sign of partnership. first of all, i would like to congratulate donald tusk on his re-election. two and a half years of excellent work are behind you. it was a time of bringing together, not of splitting. it was a time when you tried to show agency and not accept blockage. it's been a strong two years in your presidency. that's why we're so pleased about your re-election. congratulations on that! ladies and gentlemen, i shall not comment on the first hour of the council meeting on thursday, because otherwise it might be said in some polish media that the german would be speaking now. that is why i do not want to give a gift to the propaganda in poland. i think the evolution is self-directed. and i would like to thank the socialists because president hollande expressed in the european council that he appreciated the work of donald tusk, and that mr muscat, as president of the council, also managed the thursday session very, very well. the socialists in the european council have shown that now is not the time to practice party politics, but now is the time for us to stand together and defend the european idea together. thank you for that. today we are talking about the council, but above all, of course, about the future of europe, the rome declaration. for us in the epp group, the first question is the question of competences. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the openness of the debate is good, we are balanced and also a little too pragmatic. we see new areas of responsibility in some areas - defence and foreign policy - but there are many cases where we as the epp group also say: europe must take a stronger stand. jean-claude juncker has already done a great deal in the area of detailed rules, so that we at european level are taking a step back and are putting more trust in the national states. finding balance is an important task. but frankly, i think that's not necessarily the central debate -- it's an important debate, but not necessarily the most important. because what is much more important is how we manage to get the people of europe to see the european level - strasbourg, brussels - as a normal political level and not as an external force that tells them something they have to suffer from, something they have to do and have no feeling to do it. what is needed? the first thing that is necessary is that we take responsibility. i note this in my own country: the german government has in recent years voted 140 times in 148 legislative decisions in the european council. but i rarely meet a german minister who explains why he agrees to come here when he is back home in berlin. that is true of italy, it is true of the czech republic, it is true of france. that's why i'm here. when we decide something in europe, please explain it to the people back home. secondly, we must give europe success, not just here in the european parliament, where we sometimes make sunday speeches - let us be honest, we sometimes hear that here. we need to talk about what we've accomplished at home. even the right-wing extremists, the right-wing populists in this house, must see that croatia and slovenia, for example, have made much better economic progress in the years and decades since the revolution than macedonia or bosnia and herzegovina, which was also a former yugoslav territory. it is obvious to everyone that the parts of the european union are in a much better economic position today than those which are not members of the european union. poland / ukraine this is obvious. that is why we should give europe the credit for the successes we have in common and explain them to people in their everyday lives, rather than just recording them at national level, as is unfortunately the case today. we must also, of course, consider how europe can become more assertive, how europe can reach people in their everyday lives. that means we also need a debate on the executive power of europe. since there are not only greek officials at the greek border but frontex officers with the european symbol, there are many people in greece who feel more protected than in previous times. it is good that europe has its own presence there. finally, i would like to say that europe also needs to talk about borders. we are discussing the western balkans. my group fully supports the prospect of eu accession for these countries. they are part of europe, that is beyond question. but we're also discussing turkey. i am grateful that our leaders have expressed their solidarity with the netherlands. the netherlands deserve the backing of all of us, they deserve the support. but we must now clarify the long-term future of the turkish question. everyone can see that turkey is moving away from europe, whether we like it or not. and that is why we must put the question of whether full membership is realistic on the table after the referendum is over. my group wants us to build a close partnership - in economic areas, in visas, in student exchanges - but we must be honest that full membership of turkey in the european union is not a realistic position for the foreseeable future. and we should also say this to the european citizens in all honesty. as i said, there is more to it than the question of the division of powers between the european and the national levels. it's more about emotions, about taking responsibility, about being honest. and that's when we want rome to take off. mr. prime minister, we wish you the best of luck. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, presidents of all the eu institutions gathered here today! first of all, i must say that the state of the european union is also reflected in the fact that there is not a single woman among you. maybe we should rethink that, too. this could also be a suitable approach to the question: how should the european union reinvent itself so that it really reflects the wishes, the demands, the hopes and also the expectations in something that unites us together, that binds us together, that does not let us fall back into a europe, into a patchwork of nations? mr president, mr tajani, you asked us last week at the cop, the conference of presidents, to give you the mandate to be able to sign the rome declaration at a time when we, with the exception of a few, had nothing in our hands and could not say whether this rome declaration would really send the signal that was needed. and i still have my doubts that this declaration from rome will actually give a start. i would like to say to mr juncker, whom i do not like to contradict, but on this subject i say again and again: we need a signal in this declaration that points to social europe. i understand if you say we need immediate action. i support that too! the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. catalogs of measures are available. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social pillar. but what you could do, for example - and i am addressing this to the presidents, to all those gathered here - is to promote it among the member states! in rome, make a declaration that, for example, the european union is joining the enlarged european social charter. that's something. that would be a signal, a first-ever signal. and at the same time say: we are working on a social pillar. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it ends in april. the commission will be presenting its proposal on the social pillar at the end of april. they say we want to reach an agreement by november. yes, i hope so, because there's no time to lose, because that's the question that a lot of people keep asking. and in the context of the brexit debate in particular, this will become all the more serious if we do not finally ask ourselves the question and answer the cause. the reason why a large number of unemployed, of precariously employed people in britain chose to leave was also because they felt that they were not getting the answers they needed from the european union, not the support they needed. so i 'd like to say again: it is good that at the summit 27 heads of state agreed to elect mr tusk as president of the european council. this has made it clear that there are ways of reaching an agreement, but it is not enough for heads of state to agree once, even if they agree for a short moment. what we need is for the people, the people who live in our member countries, to be united. and in that spirit, i always feel: please don't celebrate so much on the 60th anniversary! take the 60th anniversary as an opportunity to fight, to fight for a european union in which we all find ourselves, in which we feel at ease, which we want to defend, because the living conditions for all - for all people within the european union - will improve. make sure that the brexit debate does not lead to a massive violation of the rights of eu citizens in the uk, especially those living in the uk. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. let us fight for this together, but always in the sense that it must be about rights, about litigation rights for all citizens, for all people coming into the european union. and please reconsider the dublin arrangements which are envisaged, because this will create unmanageable burdens, particularly for the member states of the european union at their external borders, which will aggravate their situation. let's discuss this together. let's change that. let us transform the european union into a social, democratic union that is peaceful, and we will be on your side.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr tusk on his reappointment. i hope that the commission will be able to take this opportunity to make a statement on the matter. i would also like to thank you very warmly, and the president of the commission, for your comments on turkey. i think our citizens expect a clear statement on turkey. i can only say that a country like turkey, which condemns nazi methods in germany, which calls the dutch fascists, which suspends or imprisons hundreds of thousands of police officers, civil servants, teachers, scientists and journalists, cannot be a country in the european union. we need to position ourselves clearly. the european parliament called for a freeze on the negotiations here a few months ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are also called upon to be a little more honest in the debate. i come to the future of the european union. i thank the president of the commission for his proposal, for the white paper on the future of the european union. we are now in the lead, and above all the member states. i would ask you, mr tusk, to show us again what the initial reactions from the capitals were like. you said you wanted to preserve political unity. well, i take that for granted now. it might be useful to get some more information from you. i do not want a superstate europe. i do not want a europe that is purely an economic region. i want a europe that focuses on the tasks that we can only solve together in europe. we have spoken about this a lot - colleagues have spoken about it - common foreign and defence policy, jointly dealing with the refugee situation, fighting terrorism, concluding international trade agreements, taking care of africa together - these are also important issues. we must take care of this, but otherwise we must also leave the member states free to govern and shape the country politically in the way that the countries and regions need. that is my idea of europe. i look forward to the further discussions. i hope that on 25 march we will have a worthy remembrance of what many committed europeans have built together here over many decades for the future of their children and grandchildren.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to a sentence in the communiqué, which was also mentioned by mr tusk and mr juncker, president of the commission, that although unemployment in the eurozone is bad, there has been some improvement, as unemployment was lower in 2016 compared to 2009. it's a barrier to reality. if you take germany out of the picture, it looks very different. unemployment in germany has fallen from 7.6% to 4.1% and in the euro area it has increased from 10.2% to 12.2% between 2009 and 2012. this is the reality. and if we take the european central bank's growth projections of 1.8 percent this year, 1.7 percent next year, 1.6 percent in 2019, and then subtract the autonomous productivity gains, it doesn't change the unemployment rate in the poor southern states. this is the reality. why has unemployment fallen in our country? it 's simple . the foreign trade surplus of our country has increased from 1 to 9%. our euro is undervalued, so exports are subsidised. in all the other countries, in the distressed southern countries, the euro is overvalued. that's why they're cutting exports. politics - i always hear that, mr president - begins with looking at reality. i call on the house and on the presidents to open their eyes to reality!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i should like to congratulate the commission on the white paper it has presented. the white paper will help us to advance the debate on the future of europe. it is true that there was no roadmap, but a space for discussion was created. i would be glad if the role of citizens were given even more prominence in these options. we can see in the demonstrations for the pulse of europe how many cities are full of european enthusiasm and how many people do not want to see this europe destroyed and destroyed. we must strengthen their role in europe, the participation of citizens and their participation in decision-making, and this is also part of these plans for the future. i would have liked to have seen more of that in the white paper. i would like to mention one more concrete point concerning the further deepening of europe: while we are discussing various options here, the german government is planning to set up a european monetary fund around the esm as a form of intergovernmental cooperation, so to speak, for some of the countries. the stated objective is clear: the european commission, and also the european parliament, are thus left out of the next steps towards deepening the eurozone, which we urgently need. i therefore ask you, mr juncker, when you present the next plans for the implementation of the five-party paper, to go beyond the five-party paper and make your own proposal for a european monetary fund which protects european democracy and does not allow intergovernmentalism in europe to flourish.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr prime minister, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission! i would like to say to you that you have made some very nice speeches, but please do not be so discouraged. it's 2017, it's not the end of the century. i would like to ask you to take the opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal. don't let us pretend we have the fin de siècle. i would ask you to have a little more courage and look where colleagues have already spoken about this. look at the thousands and thousands of people who are now demonstrating every weekend for this europe and for their expectations of europe. and let's not take this lightly. we would like to say to mr juncker that, although his youthful career as president of the commission was a bit of a roller coaster, europe has already seen more member states acting against the interests of their own people. this is not new. but let's get down to the boys. you have to tell them: you are not a lost generation but not just say, but act. we need a youth guarantee that tells the people of eastern europe, of southern europe: we need you, we want your workforce, we want to see you in the workforce. you have to tell families, yes, you can take a break, you can have children, and then mom and dad can go back to work. make these legislative proposals and europe will follow! but it needs political leadership, no multiple choices and no excuses.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in rome, we are celebrating 60 years of the treaties of rome and looking at the achievements of the european union. these achievements are of course of the past, but they are great achievements: freedom, security and prosperity. the question is: what will europe achieve tomorrow? i believe the central feature is to secure our freedom on our continent in a difficult international environment. we must be vigilant about this. we need a strong europol to be like a european fbi. we need a strong frontex - truly european, not intergovernmental any more. we need a common security and defence policy worthy of the name, and we need prosperity, economic growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i want to say this to the five-figure people: the fact that italy has not had any productivity growth for 20 years is not the fault of the european union, nor is it the fault of the euro. it has to do with the fact that the service markets, the labour markets have not been liberalised. but we need economic growth, we need liberalised markets so that young people can have a perspective and social cohesion can be ensured in ageing societies. that's exactly what we need. and we have the support of the population, pulse of europe shows us that impressively. and if we do free interrail, we'll get more support from the young people.
mr president, mr president of the council, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr tusk. everyone else has, but i want to do it too. it's a confirmation of good work. secondly, many people have said how important europe is to them, what principles we have and how valuable europe is. i'm just afraid that it's not going to be enough if we explain this out loud and often and constantly. we will have to prove that this europe works, and that it works for the citizens. i suggest you take a look back. if we talk about the achievements of the last 60 years, it means peace, freedom, prosperity. that has been said many times. but then we can think about whether we are doing our job well enough on the question of securing prosperity. i do not think the answers have to be more social benefits or assuming responsibilities where you are not competent. i don't think the answer is unemployment either. the answer must be to create the conditions for jobs to be created. and that is the commission's homework, but also ours. what are we doing to safeguard jobs in europe? what are we doing to safeguard industry in europe? it is a pity that the president of the commission is not here, and that the commissioner responsible for industry is not here. i wonder what proposals are being made. how can the share of industry be increased in europe? i know an industry commissioner from earlier years. he once suggested that 20% should come from the industrial sector, and we decided that. does anyone actually care about that? do we make the conditions that favorable? because when industry works, when growth works, jobs are created. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that has been a strong qualifying feature for us in the past. the reason why people like europe is because people are doing well here. and if they're doing well, if they have income, the state has income. if the state has income, you can also pay social benefits. that's the simple math. why do people in countries with strong economies fare better? the commission should now provide something, not only for social union but also for industrial policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the greatest enemy of the european union is its halfheartedness and lack of clarity about the european idea. almost no one explains to people what the added value of the european union is and why we need the european union in the coming years. the eu is disappearing into the fog, and people are losing interest and turning away. the founding fathers were much braver then, in fact. well, rome could be the point of a new beginning. parliament has done its homework, we have developed very clear ideas. the commission is already more flexible with five multiple choice scenarios. i hope that the council in rome will not be vague, but will really indicate the direction in which we must go in the next few years. we have created peace and freedom, but now we must organize prosperity and security. rome may not be the birth of a new european union, but it is certainly the birth of a new european citizens' movement. the whole of civil society will come, and the march for europe in rome will be as big as it has ever been. the citizens are brave we need brave politicians now too.
in writing. i welcome the debate among member states and civil society launched by the white paper presented by commission president juncker. we need an intensive and purposeful debate on how we envisage europe in the future. the white paper is the right basis for this. we must use the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome as an opportunity to reintegrate people more closely into the eu and to continue to work on responding to people's needs. i think 'pulseofeurope' is a great initiative and i hope that more people will join in the coming months.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on a topical issue concerning the eu's security agenda one year after the brussels attacks (2017/2605 ((rsp)). the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the groups have agreed on a list of speakers and they have also agreed that there will be no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted. we shall begin with mrs metsola, speaking for the group of the european people's party which has requested this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's good that we have this debate today, we owe it to the victims. and their loved ones who can't shake their grief. you have our deepest sympathy. what else? i believe that what the families really want to know is not only a full explanation of these cruel attacks, but also an answer to the question of how to prevent something like this in the future. and they, of course, know that there is no such thing as absolute security. but if you look at the commission's pages of catalogues, they unfortunately cover everything. everything that is somehow related to safety is activated according to the principle of much helps much. but that's exactly what's wrong. they throw it all in a pot, stir it around, and they say, "let's see". the same is true of data: you said 34% more data at europol. yes, but if all the data available to all police agencies is packed into one giant database or several, then the targeted investigation will not be easier! and the grain of information you need to prevent the next attack is lost in the data. so what we've been praying for over the last few years is a real debate about what data we really need, what measures are right and what are not. martial swordplay on the borders, i'm telling you, it's not gonna do any good. it is a false fact that there is no security for the citizens in this way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is as porous as swiss cheese at its external borders, and i think that is the main problem. only countries such as poland, hungary and slovenia secure their external borders. otherwise, not only would potential terrorists be allowed to enter the country, but the weapons would also be. we talked about and passed new gun laws yesterday, but none of them have had any real impact, because they're now creating difficulties for sports shooters, for collectors, for hunters, for museums, but none of these guns that have been used in assassinations are from this group of people. nothing has been done so far to restrict the circulation of the many weapons of war still on european soil, for example in bosnia, where hundreds of thousands of weapons are in circulation, and to secure the borders so that these weapons cannot reach europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr rolin was quite right when he said that we must continue to live together in tolerance and love. but for that we need freedom and security, and we must not allow them to be played off against each other. the people have a right to both, and therefore we have a duty to contribute to both. we social democrats want the committee on foreign affairs and the libe committee, together with others, to draw up a report which will deal precisely with the question: what have we decided? what's working now? what's the problem with the implementation? where do we need to do more and where do we need to do more to ensure freedom and security, both internally and externally, in terms of causes as well as effects? we've had enough of ideas. we have decided a lot, and now we have to see how we can speed up the implementation and how what we implement works or sometimes, as we know, does not work. it's not one or the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a shared duty to both.
mr president, a year after the brussels attacks it is the right moment to discuss the eu’s security agenda. it is time to step back for a moment, to just pause and think through the implications of our actions until now. are we taking the right measures to invest massively in better equipment, better cooperation between our police and security services, and effective deradicalisation, or are we still putting forward expensive, but ineffective and symbolic, measures of mass data collection or intrusive surveillance measures against completely innocent citizens, thereby weakening effective security and our freedoms together which we defend? therefore, i am very happy that commissioner king is starting to investigate the effectiveness of the hundreds of security measures which the european union and its member states have adopted through the years. we have to see what is working and what is not working.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all remember the day of the islamic terrorist attacks in brussels and we mourn the 32 people who lost their lives. over 300 were injured, some seriously. but i think the eu has not learned the right lessons from this. at least three of the perpetrators were born in belgium and had belgian nationality. they radicalized in belgium, they formed a terrorist cell to attack the country they grew up in, to kill the people who were their neighbors. the perpetrators were partly integrated into their parallel society in belgium. they were not integrated into the belgian mainstream culture. multiculturalism has failed. we europeans must remember our culture of leadership and we must defend it. less multiculturalism and more christian western culture.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i ask you to check the statements made by the honourable member of the bureau. i find it impossible that immigrants to the european union should be accused of being criminals and offenders per se. it's impossible and unworthy of this house.
we'll look into it.
like i said, we'll look into it. we cannot continue this debate now.
mr president, commissioner, president of the council, minister, i would like to thank you for your work. i would be very happy if the enf would finally stop being a one-size-fits-all organisation. not all refugees are terrorists, and not all terrorists are refugees. and if we could just make a differentiated argument, we would have a much easier time in this house. i would like to begin by paying a very specific compliment to the member states, because i have the impression that they are increasingly able to exchange information better, to cooperate better and to gradually transform some national frontiers, which they used to guard with pride in the field of security, into cooperation. i believe, however, that we must continue to expand and improve the steps we have taken. we cannot be satisfied with this. we must not let up now because there may not be an attack, but we must continue to make efforts. i think it is just as wrong, however, when the greens suddenly talk about a total surveillance state. we do not have a total surveillance state, and all the instruments we use are used in a balanced way. if they are not applied in a balanced way or if they are used in a way that is contrary to the rule of law, then we must act accordingly. but to speak of a surveillance state in general terms whenever one tries to reconcile security and freedom, i think it is wrong. i would like to conclude my brief speech by once again asking the member states, also on behalf of mrs teresa jiménez-becerril barrio, to help the victims of terrorism more quickly and more consistently than they have done so far.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if you look at the example of the congo, and how bad the situation is in countries where resources are exploited, you realize that we certainly need regulation in the european union as well. we want to ensure, through this regulation, that as much as possible no more raw materials enter the european union, which on the one hand help to finance armed conflicts and on the other hand where workers are forced to work in really unbearable conditions - and this is what is happening in the congo, for example - to release the raw materials accordingly. that is why it is good that we are making this regulation. but we should always ask ourselves: do we have a good intention, or how do we ensure that behind a good intention we also put a good response and respond with a good regulation? the dodd-frank act, for example, was a good thing, but the result is not great. many companies in america are avoiding the congo for example, and are no longer sourcing raw materials from there. this means that the many mines which work neatly and cleanly, and some of the family farms which work neatly and cleanly, have no prospects for the future, and have had to give orders. it was a de facto embargo against the congo. that is why it was very important for us to make the regulation so that the companies there have a perspective, that the young people there find jobs, that we do not exactly make an embargo, but that we enable the companies in europe to be able to buy raw materials in this country in the future with a clear conscience. i therefore appeal to european companies to participate in these certification procedures. please continue to take raw materials from the conflict areas. you can be sure now that these raw materials are not bloodstained, but that they are clean. in this connection, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mr iuliu winkler, who has achieved a very good result in cooperation with the rapporteurs, the commission and the council. we have really created something to help our consumers, but above all also the affected people in the states where they work.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am grateful to the rapporteur for his constructive cooperation. but let's remember why we're standing here today. war is often fought for profit. warlords lead armed gangs to gain or defend control of resource areas and mines. people are killed for gold, coltan, tungsten or tin. small mines, often with children working, extort protection money for much of the find. the raw materials are turned into money. the money will be used to buy weapons. with more weapons, more fighters can be equipped. whoever has more fighters has more power. whoever has more power can control more territory and steal more resources and get more wealth back. the spiral is turning and is far too often a military endless loop. but, ladies and gentlemen, this business model works because, in the interests of the value chains, some unscrupulous companies have long been buying the raw materials from the warlords. such companies also operate in europe. we are therefore now making a mockery of them with this new european law. that's why today is a good day! for the first time, companies will be required by law to apply a duty of care to their raw material supply chains. companies at the beginning of the supply chain - that is, metal smelters and refiners - must prove the origin of their raw materials. but it's only three years away. how many more victims will there be in that time? commissioner, you should be on the offensive now and push for the rapid introduction of supply chain controls. i would also ask you to take action early on in the accompanying measures and to go beyond the projects already under way in an innovative way. then we are on the right track with this legislation. i also thank the many ngos for their consistent and supportive actions and activities, which have been constantly on our heels and have helped us to bring this law to life.
i have to say, madam president, the present regulation is an attempt to bring together trade policy, development cooperation and respect for human rights. last night we discussed here that millions of people in the countries of sub-saharan africa are threatened with acute starvation and that the causes are largely political, because corrupt rulers and terrorist groups are fighting for power, money and influence there. many of africa's treasures are not for the benefit of working people, but are the cause of violence and oppression. but if the causes of misery are political, then political action must also be taken, as our sakharov prize winner, dr mukwege, has called for here. it is therefore welcome that, after three years of tough negotiations, this regulation is finally on the table. i see this as a beginning, that we are finally going to let words be followed by deeds. and my appeal to you, commissioner, is that you should also help to enforce this regulation.
the commission has already done so. tomorrow we shall see the birth of a new kind of trade relationship. so far we have organized trade relations between countries, but that no longer reflects reality. we have global value chains now. 70% of global trade is related to value chains, and that's why it's right that we start looking now at the so-called conflict minerals and take responsibility throughout the value chain so that we can ensure that these substances are handled responsibly throughout the value chain. i believe that this is the right way to pursue a more trade policy in the future and to ensure that products are treated reasonably and fairly throughout the value chain. then we can say that our consumer products have been produced and traded fairly. i think that we have also made this mandatory, it's also an important step to say here, companies have a specific responsibility. we also have clear criteria in the oecd guidelines on how to ensure due diligence throughout the value chain. and i'm glad we started with the conflict minerals. now, you can think about whether we're going to continue with, for example, textiles -- we have oecd guidelines there, too, because fair products have to include all products.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. it is quite unusual for european political parties to want to change a regulation which is supposed to regulate their work, but which has not yet entered into force at the time of the complaint. i see two reasons for this: firstly, the ignorance of the rapporteur at the time, who made it very difficult in the last parliamentary term to negotiate the dossier successfully with the council. on the other hand, the framework conditions for the activities of european political parties are changing significantly and new objectives are emerging. it would be only natural for the european parliament to take a position on this. but such a common opinion does not yet exist. the following questions therefore remain unanswered: do we really want european political parties to intervene in open political processes in member states? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. what new political need has arisen to define the latter in the light of the prohibition of profit? in view of the divergent dynamics in the eu, i think it is rather crucial to look at where european political parties stand with the new rights they have been granted. i have listened to you very carefully, commissioner. you have raised many substantive questions. what constructive contribution are you making to the future of the eu? but this is a political question and it is outside the commission's regulatory responsibility. so where are the initiatives to strengthen the european parliament's right of initiative and its right of inquiry?
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. we shall certainly have long discussions in this debate on what the conditions for a party should be in the intangible sense. i am campaigning for the elimination of the serious craftsmanship errors to which mr scholz has rightly referred. the point is that we should no longer allow members who have stood for and been elected for a national party and who are not part of any european structure to set up one structure after another. it has already been shown that this is being done, and we must stop it. it should no longer be possible for a party to be founded by a single member of parliament from the second or third national level who claims to be running in the next european elections. these are developments we should not tolerate. we should also make it clear that those who misuse the funds - i do not want to say fraudulent - must be able to recover the money, and that we should not then find that the party is no longer there or insolvent. that is why it was an important step today that the european court of justice considered it admissible for this house to require, in the appropriate cases, in justified cases, bank guarantees to ensure that we also get back money that has been misused. and finally, a final thought: in the context of the referendums, i do not think we should pretend to be aseptic beings who can use the scalpel to filter out party activities by political level like a filter. this is not going to work. we should be able to have political parties.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am glad that we are having this debate on security and defence in the context of our report. i would like to thank my colleague, mr gonzáles pons, and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. the deterioration of our security situation calls for bold steps towards a european defence union. we must do more to better ensure the security and defence of our citizens and the eu as a whole. the war in ukraine, the tensions in the balkans and the disintegrating states in our southern neighbourhood require this. our transatlantic partners will only meet their obligations to us if we do our part. the decisionmaking process within nato is very ambitious. we cannot avoid spending more, but at eu level better spending means using european procedures and the eu budget in a smart way. the european defence union as a european pillar will also strengthen the transatlantic alliance with more joint planning and procurement. in particular, in our immediate neighbourhood - the western balkans or north africa - nato is not necessarily the instrument with which our transatlantic partners want to be involved in these problem situations. with this report we are setting a new milestone on the road to common defence and to a defence union. for years the commission and the member states have left the security and defence policy opportunities of the lisbon treaty unused. we have been pointing this out in the ep since the treaty entered into force. we are now looking forward to concrete proposals, for example, to implement the european defence action plan and the defence fund. we want to establish a reformed european defence agency and the permanent structured cooperation to be launched as sui generis eu institutions. this means that we want to give these bodies access to eu procedures and funding. we are not militarising the eu. but what we are doing is improving the protection of our citizens and the union by improving existing military capabilities, also with the help of eu instruments. we are not fighting a war in ukraine, but russia. it is not we who are destabilizing the sahel, iraq and syria, but islamist terrorists. it is not we who are playing dangerous games in the western balkans, but we must respond if necessary. the dayton agreement on bosnia-herzegovina will not be guaranteed by the united states, and if anyone questions it, we must do it ourselves. the commission and the member states must stop acting as if the european council had decided to go on as usual. i am referring to parts of the 2013 and 2015 summits on defence that have not yet been implemented. i ask you: where is the eu-wide system for security of supply? where are the civil/military standards or common or at least mutually recognized certification rules for armaments? why did the ep have to become active in defence research? and when will the commission dare to stop the misuse of article 346 when member states abolish the internal market for defence products and avoid the europe-wide call for tenders by referring to a 'requirement to safeguard essential security interests'? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is urgent to launch common defence, european capability and arms policy and permanent structured cooperation and to reform the defence agency to make it fit for future tasks. the lisbon treaty makes this possible. let us use what is possible and necessary in the common interest.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the report's theme is: how can passages from the lisbon treaty be used to further the militarisation of the eu? in the context of brexit and trump, the current window of opportunity is being used. joint military projects are supposed to be the backbone of the crumbling eu, and there are loud and vehement calls for military autonomy. the report focuses in particular on the activation of permanent structured cooperation. certain aspects of eu military policy could be excluded from the principle of consensus. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european union agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states (com (2001) 570 final) is a step in the right direction. the report does contain statements on the need to involve parliament more closely and to strengthen its rights, but this is not concrete. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the military eu is already hardly under parliamentary control. mr borg said that the member states had the control. how will this be dealt with in the proposals contained in the report? this report aims to further strengthen the eu military union and to deliver the arms lobby's wishes even more directly, even less disturbed by an effective parliament. so many reasons to reject him.
i have to say, madam president, mr gahler, thank you very much for your report. we are largely in agreement with what you have written and therefore the vast majority of my colleagues will agree with it. the common defence policy makes for greater efficiency - and this has nothing to do with pointless armaments - and creates the air needed for new investments, because there are new challenges. and it has something to do with more responsibility in our neighborhood, too. whether we like it or not, we have to adjust to it. four things, however, must be clear. firstly, territorial defence is a matter for nato and not for a mini-nato calling itself the eu. second, new tasks cost money. we must talk to the member states about how these costs of these new tasks are to be met, how they are to be covered. thirdly, we are in favour of a parliamentary reservation for purely military missions; this must be discussed in the course of the procedure. and finally, we believe that the military component is just part of a comprehensive foreign policy. we are proud of the soft skills that the eu has developed and the eu should develop them further. we therefore think that the sede committee should remain a subcommittee for the time being. this has not found a majority in the committee, but that should not prevent us from agreeing to it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the idea of a security and defence community was at the very beginning of european unification, over 70 years ago. after more than 70 years, this idea is back on the agenda, and many colleagues have also said why: because the geopolitical situation has changed dramatically. there are uncertainties from vladimir putin's policy in moscow to - very likely - donald's policy in washington, not to mention the crisis belt around the eu. the eu is a soft power and will remain so because the lisbon treaty states that all eu peacekeeping missions are to be carried out with the approval of the international community. the militarization of the eu or the eu as the world police cannot happen with the existing treaty. we all know that our capabilities are very limited and that a lot of money is wasted because of duplication of work and also mismanagement. it cannot be forbidden to create an internal market for defence products, as the treaty provides. it cannot be forbidden to establish a common headquarters for the missions and to improve the equipment of these missions. the financial aspect is also necessary. and i think that the eu budget must also be accompanied by reform of the eu's own revenue. i believe that diplomacy is paramount, but we also need military capabilities under the control of parliaments. i am also in favour of flags in the institutions: a council of defence ministers and soon a defence committee here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. the single market creates more opportunities for both large and small firms. and i can imagine that if we open up this market for military goods, that really everyone has their advantage, that not only airbus and krauss maffei and similar large companies, but also the small and medium-sized companies that you value very much have access because we have eu standards for the tendering and for the award of these contracts. and that's why i agree with you.
mr president, i guess we all agree that rapidly changing geopolitical circumstances and serious security threats characterise the international environment. i firmly believe no european country can address these challenges alone, and to overcome national prerogatives and double structures that impede the efficiency of eu security and defence policy, we have to be more flexible. i welcome, therefore, that for instance, the foreign affairs council on 6 march underlined that ‘the permanent structured cooperation could facilitate the development of member states’ defence capabilities and strengthen european defence cooperation’. therefore i urge our member states now to make full use of the legal instruments provided by the treaty of lisbon in this field. we need to join forces and to become more flexible to ensure the security of our union. i would like to thank and congratulate michael gahler and esteban gonzález pons for an excellent report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the development of a common security and defence policy could be a good example of european added value. yes, collaboration in research would probably guarantee efficiency gains. i am concerned, however, that many reports on this subject are making light of the fact that some of them call for substantial financial resources to finance the various elements of the new common security and defence policy. the european defence agency is to become a community institution, the joint headquarters for security policy missions. the commission proposes eur 500 million for defence research in the new medium-term financial framework. all this is true of a budget which is already chronically underfunded. i think that the house must be honest about this: do we want to cover these costs from this budget? this meant less money for civilian research, less money for regional aid, less money for protecting the external borders and providing for refugees. i'm convinced we can't afford that. let us be as consistent as possible and ask the commission and the council to finance this common security and defence policy by means of a corresponding enlargement of the next medium-term financial framework.
president-inoffice of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i really appreciated the debate. i am here and once again on behalf of high representative mogherini. i appreciate the work of the rapporteurs but also the contribution of the house. security and defence will remain high on the eu’s political agenda in the coming weeks and months, and the european council asked to maintain the momentum and to continue the work with determination and speed. more than ever, it is imperative that europeans take more responsibility for their own security, and therefore member states, together with the help of institutions, will continue to work hard to fulfil these ambitions and take forward the actions needed to make the european union stronger, more effective and, ultimately, safer.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to make a few brief comments on some of the points raised by my colleagues. first of all, i should like to thank you very much for the broad support which i believe this report receives. we will organise a good majority for this. secondly, i agree with all those who have said that we need all aspects of foreign policy in this context, from soft skills to strong diplomacy, and that includes development cooperation. i always try to sum up this: we must be able to use everything in our union's external action, from the verbal note to the main battle tank, in a credible way and, of course, try to achieve this by as peaceful means as possible. i also believe that we must seek to work hand in hand with the united nations, although i do not see ourselves as being totally dependent on it. if i think of the western balkans, for example, or bosnia and herzegovina in particular, when it comes to defending dayton, i could also imagine that maybe russia would veto it if we prevented a referendum from taking place in banja luka. we should therefore reserve the right to do what is necessary in our immediate environment. i find it interesting that there is a broad consensus in some of the groups. the ecr already shows that there are those who will remain in the eu and those who will leave it, and accordingly there is a slightly different opinion. i did not understand, however, that if you are not in nato yourself, you are relying on nato and not wanting the eu to become active in the field of defence. turkey is also an argument for moving out of nato dependence if necessary. because if we have to resort to nato resources, a turkish veto can block everything. and i don't want to have a veto from a mr. erdoğan in our own affairs. i therefore believe that what we are proposing here is on the right track.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf in particular of my colleagues vice-president mogherini and commissioner vella, i would like, on behalf of the commission to welcome this own-initiative report on an integrated european union policy for the arctic presented by the two rapporteurs. our joint communication sets out an integrated policy framework for dealing with the challenges and the opportunities in the arctic and for enhancing the eu’s already substantial presence in in the region. such a framework is needed because developments in the eu and the arctic are interlinked in many ways, as we have just heard. the impact of the eu on the arctic, and indeed of the arctic on the eu, is becoming increasingly clear and pressing. our communication focuses on three priorities. first, we must address the challenges facing the arctic by responding to climate change and protecting the arctic environment. the arctic is warming, as we have heard, twice as fast as the rest of the world, but that affects not just the region itself, but also the rest of the world. the arctic is home to 4 million people. our second priority must therefore be to support its sustainable development, so that it is a place where people can continue to live, study and work. our joint communication highlights that safeguarding the arctic’s fragile environment and the sustainable development of the region can and must go hand in hand. it is not sustainable to only consider the economic development without due regard to the rich biodiversity and the consequences of climate change in the region, and it is not possible to aim to protect the fragile environment without considering the needs of the local communities and the potential for developing a vibrant economy in a sustainable way. this balancing effort is at the centre of everyone’s attention on arctic matters, including national and local authorities of the arctic states and also in multilateral fora. so it is no surprise that the draft resolution before you today shows that it has also been discussed extensively in this house. our third priority is to strengthen cooperation with our arctic partners, to address the challenges and opportunities we are discussing. challenges like climate change are on a scale too big for any one state tackle alone, so international cooperation is, obviously, key. across all these areas we have sought to emphasise the crucial role of science, research and innovation, and we have stressed the role of those who inhabit the arctic, including indigenous peoples, in this process. we have included the arctic within our recent initiative for better international ocean governance. the challenges that our oceans face today do not recognise national boundaries, therefore stronger efforts are needed globally to address governance issues in this context. again, thank you very much for this report and the opportunity to discuss these important subjects.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i thank the two co-rapporteurs for a good report which will certainly get a large majority here. the european union has a great interest in working together in the arctic as partners with those who have their own territories there in a variety of areas. it is good that we have three member states who are also full members of the arctic council and who certainly represent our interests there. we as the european union have a lot to offer in the various policy areas because we are good at it and have a lot of experience in research and other areas - including environmental protection - from other areas as well. i think we should be more cautious in areas where we do not have our own competence. unfortunately, we in the committee have decided on a political content, namely that we want to tell countries - also outside the eu - that we should aim for a ban on oil and gas drilling. i think we are going beyond our powers in this area, particularly because we do not have the acquis within the eu. i hope, therefore, that we will be able to take this aspect out of the report in the final vote. as i said, it is a matter of working in partnership with the investors to represent our interests in the best possible way. i am confident that we will achieve that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr charles tannock, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission report on montenegro (2016/2309 ((ini)) (a8-0050/2017).
before i give the floor to minister borg, i would like to express my understanding that you have to leave a little early because you have to catch your plane. i am sure that you will still be able to listen to the debate on the internet and that you will also know the position of the european parliament on this important issue.
madam president, montenegro’s steady path towards eu integration is most welcome. i particularly welcome the ongoing progress in judicial reform and the fight against corruption in this country. furthermore, montenegro’s aim to join nato this year is a clear sign of its commitment towards our euro-atlantic alliance. as nato remains an important factor for peace and stability in the western balkans, this decision deserves our strong support. notwithstanding the important progress, there also remain significant challenges ahead, as my colleague, mr preda, has just pointed out. i would also like to name just a few. these include the deeply polarised political climate, the politicisation of the public administration, undue external influence on the judiciary, corruption and the freedom of the media. i remain deeply concerned about alleged russian attempts to influence development in this country, which could potentially destabilise the whole region. therefore, i would like to join the call of high representative federica mogherini to follow ongoing investigations into the alleged coup d’état attempt on 16 october last year, including, notably, the purported involvement of russian intelligence. as the standing rapporteur for serbia – and to close on a positive note – i would like to commend the state of montenegrin—serbian relations, which continue to be a source of stability for the region. if the two front runners in the western balkans, serbia and montenegro, stay on their respective european paths, we will be able to ensure long—term stability in the region. i would like to thank my distinguished colleague charles tannock for his good work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 march 2017.
the next item is the report (a8-0041/2017) by mr ramón jáuregui atondo, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on digital democracy in the european union: potential and challenges (2016/2008 (ini)) (a8-0041/2017).
one thing is certain, and that is that we very clearly accept freedom of speech in our states, and not only accept it, but respect it. this is a high good which we cannot in any way call into question. i do not accept the allegations that have just been made.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 march 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i want to thank all of you who worked so late. (the sitting was closed at 11.05 p.m.)
member of the commission. – madam president, can i just say a few words on behalf of commissioner vella, who would very much have liked to have been here for this discussion, but who unfortunately could not travel. data collection might seem a rather technical issue, but it is – as we have just heard – fundamental to work in this area. it has been said that if you do not measure it, you cannot manage it, and management of our fish stocks is of critical importance for the stocks themselves and for the livelihood of our fishing communities. the european parliament and the council recognised this at the time of the adoption of the common fisheries policy, making a common declaration calling on the commission to fast-track the review of the data collection framework. the commission delivered, and today i am happy to see that we have reached a political agreement on the new regulation, which can finally be adopted and published. this will enable the scientific institutions in member states to start collecting the necessary data for all the new requirements of the cfp. this has been possible thanks to this house’s will to tackle efficiently such a technical subject. we can now move one step forward towards enhancing regional cooperation in data collection, which has been an important objective of the cfp reforms. the data collection framework is essential for the implementation of the cfp as it provides the basic data for scientific advice on fishing quotas and on impact assessments for the evolution of eu fisheries. the recast was focused on two main issues. first, to ensure delivery on cfp reform objectives, providing the scientific data necessary for sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, while protecting the marine ecosystem and reducing discards and, at the same time, achieving economic, social, unemployment benefits and food security. second, to simplify the current system: collect only what is needed, remove overlaps and reduce the number of rules at eu level. overall, as has been recognised, the current framework has proven to be fit for purpose, and therefore the basic principles will not change. eu multiannual programmes are agreed and adopted at eu level and then implemented by national work plans in which member states divide tasks amongst themselves. basic data storage will remain at member state level, and member states will remain responsible for ensuring that good quality data is available to end users such as the international council for the exploration of the sea. an important issue that was debated in the final stages between parliament and council was the adoption procedure for the multiannual programmes on data collection, which define the detailed data requirements, the list of scientific surveys at sea and thresholds for the obligation to collect data. we are satisfied with the final compromise, which splits up the multiannual programme in a delegated act for the data requirements and implementing acts for the thresholds and the list of surveys. thank you to the rapporteur for his work on this and for the opportunity this morning to discuss this important subject.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr marco affronte, who has done a very constructive job here. i've had a good run with the shadow reporters, too. and we all agreed that the collection of data on the fisheries sector, but also on recreational fishing and aquaculture, is an important basis for assessing the current state of fish stocks. we are in the process of making multiannual, multi-species plans for the baltic sea, we are now at the north sea, we are going further into the western atlantic and then later into the mediterranean. and for that, it is absolutely necessary that we have scientifically based data available. it is a matter of cooperation between all the stakeholders involved in the system. the sector plays a very important and decisive role here, namely the commercial fishing industry. the commission is of course obliged to document the data on its landed catches and to provide them to the competent authorities. but we also want to tackle this in the recreational fishing sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it's necessary that we capture data there as well. i would like to say that in the field of aquaculture, this is of course also very important for the supply of fish and fish products to the population. europe is the world's largest import market. we can only realize about a third of our income and provide for our population, our customers. everything else is imports. that is why we are also paying particular attention to the sector of aquaculture, the circular economy. but for that, of course, we also need data. the commission has already said that it is necessary to be able to enforce the common fisheries policy, the basic regulation, even more precisely in the future. the international council for the exploration of the sea also needs data. they can certainly do it on their own with their research vessels, but not to the extent that we can do it if we include the three sectors - that is, the professional fisheries, which bring in quota catches, but also non-quota catches, the recreational fisheries, which also ultimately have to report their data, and in aquaculture in particular, it should be the marine sector, that is, the aquaculture that takes place in coastal areas, that we have the data to also get feedback on what it actually does to the ecosystem. interaction between species also plays a role. i must say that we have achieved good results, that we have managed to convince the council that the delegated acts are clearly defined: who has to do what? it is clear that the compulsory data collection applies to the high seas area and the thresholds are set there. this is an implementing act, so to speak, decided jointly by the council and the commission, and the delegated acts remain, so to speak, with the possibility of parliament's opposition, everything that concerns the basic regulation. thank you again to all involved. we have here a good basis for the future of the common fisheries policy.
a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the verkhovna rada! anyone who has visited the crimean tatars at home in the peninsula in recent years knows what it means for this group of ukrainian citizens to lose their homeland once again and to lose all their rights, to be at the centre of systematic criminalisation and persecution again a few decades after rehabilitation from the persecution under stalin. i am glad that colleagues from all the other groups have agreed with us all to adopt this resolution today with a very broad consensus against the annexation of crimea, against the continued occupation of crimea. it is extremely important for the ukrainians in crimea and it is extremely important for the ukrainians in their country that we stand in solidarity against the injustice, against the violation of international law by russia. the resolution we are drafting, which is very strongly and rightly directed at crimea, also creates new facts in the territories of luhansk and donetsk, which have been occupied with russian help. not only is the ruble now the currency of the luhansk region, but russian passports are now recognised and ukrainian companies are being nationalised. dear colleagues from the rada! i would like to take this debate as an opportunity to say again that the sanctions adopted by the european union against the violation of international law must not be called into question. with these sanctions, we defend security and order on this continent. those who continue to question the sanctions are not only endangering the lives of people caught up in the injustices of russian persecution in crimea or eastern ukraine, but also the future of security and stability on the entire continent.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is absolutely undeniable that international law and human rights have been violated on all sides in this conflict. but, mrs. harms, you helped make it happen. the association agreement has been one of the factors that have further fuelled an already heated political mood. you are not even afraid to praise neo-nationalists like the fighter pilot nadiya savchenko when it is your fight - yes, mrs harms, you are not a friend of ukraine, you are fighting your fight against russia, and that is something completely different. on monday, russia sanctions, which are now only "restrictive measures against actions that threaten the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of ukraine", were extended until september 2017. you will not be making peace, but you will be preventing negotiations which ukraine will have to conduct with russia. the european union is not helping. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. you know very well that more happened than the ukrainian parliament accepted. you usually accuse us of being formal. you know very well that before, with ngos and with a lot of european money, a massive amount of effort was made to achieve exactly that. and you've been lobbying to force ukraine onto an anti-russian course. and yes, parliament played along in the end, that is correct. that was, and must be, and can now be said to be, a mistake.
a writer. the commission is not we already referred to the worsening human rights situation in a resolution on the philippines last september. president duterte's deadly war on drugs, since he took office less than a year ago, has cost an estimated 7,500 lives. we call on the philippine government to immediately stop these killings. it is necessary to ensure that the police and the newly deployed military in their operations comply with international legal standards. the demand for an immediate and independent investigation into not only extrajudicial executions but also torture and disappearances and for the prosecution of those responsible in civil courts continues today. critics of president duterte's policies must be safe from arbitrary arrests and convictions. in 2007, the philippines abolished the death penalty, in a major step for the country and the region. now the bill to reinstate the death penalty has just been approved by the house of representatives. i appeal to the philippine government to refrain urgently from reintroducing the death penalty, not least because it has been shown to have no greater deterrent effect than other punishments. i would like to end by calling for the immediate release of senator leila de lima, the dropping of all charges against her and the guaranteeing of her safety while in detention.
the next item on the agenda is the major questions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have two new instruments this week, the topical debate and the large questions. i had the honour yesterday of chairing the first debate on the subject which was introduced by the new rules of procedure. i am delighted to be able to take over the first major inquiry. the author of this great request, mr coburn, will begin for two minutes.
i don't want to comment on that. in any case, the agreement with turkey is not an agreement with an ngo.
member of the commission. – mr president, there are a number of serious points that have been raised. we take them seriously. i will discuss them with responsible colleagues and indeed with the heads of relevant agencies. can i just repeat that saving lives at sea is a priority and indeed an obligation under international law, and that remains the case, including during the current migration crisis. i would like to associate myself with the comments made by mr kelly about the devotion of those involved in saving lives at sea, some of whom pay a very high price for that work. i, on behalf of the commission, condemn unreservedly those involved in human trafficking and those who seek to profit from migration smuggling. successfully addressing the migration crisis is going to depend on the active cooperation of all of us, all parts of state authorities and civil society including ngos. in the end, as i said earlier, national authorities are competent to assess if the conduct of an ngo constitutes a criminal offence based on the applicable national, eu and international law. just to be clear on funding, as was asked, the commission does not provide funding to ngos or other non-governmental actors to carry out search and rescue activities.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. it is disappointing that the commission has not only failed to respond to our important request in time, but has refrained from responding at all. the large question is an important minority instrument, especially for the opposition groups who refuse to accept the general consensus in this house. the commission continues to show no accountability to the european parliament. it sees itself as a free-floating government. she seems like an absolutist prince who's been transported to our time. but we have moved beyond the age of absolutism. governments have a duty to speak to parliaments. but the commission does not care. she's doing her thing, unimpressed by the work here in parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i say to you, commissioner, if you continue like this, it will be the end of the commission as we have it today. because no sovereign can be satisfied with such a self-serving pursuit for long. you know what i'm talking about because your country -- britain -- has already left that elite-dominated club called the eu.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not my group, the epp group, supports the change of title. i would like to say that it is quite scandalous that the president of the eurogroup, despite the unanimous request of the plenary and the conference of presidents and despite the fact that you, as president of the european parliament, have conveyed this wish to him, does not consider it necessary to appear here in the european parliament when we are discussing important issues such as greece. this behaviour, mr president, is unacceptable and disrespectful to the european parliament. we ask you to express this to the head of the eurogroup. i would also like to ask the socialists, since mr dijsselbloem is a social democrat, to discuss with their party friends whether it is possible for mr dijsselbloem to appear here. and i would like to make one more point, ladies and gentlemen. mr dijsselbloem has given interviews in the last few weeks. we in the epp group want to keep the euro together. we also want rules to be followed. but he has been very, very disparaging about the countries that have had problems in recent years, that have received help in the eurozone. in our view, this lack of respect for the programme countries in particular makes it unacceptable for mr dijsselbloem to remain in office. in our view, he should resign.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. in short, we have already dealt with this issue at the conference of presidents last week. you have already explained to us that you have little desire to invite mr dijsselbloem to your home again and to have a basket from him. and i think what we have to make clear to both the council and the eurogroup is that this behaviour is not tolerable. mr dijsselbloem has an important function, particularly in the implementation of measures against some countries in the european union, and he has no right to refuse to speak to the members of this house. and as for his interview stories - we have also demanded in advance: mr dijsselbloem is the wrong man for the eurogroup, and he has to resign and should not wait for someone to replace him.
mr president, on behalf of everybody who has not spoken, i would like to express our denunciation of mr dijsselbloem too.
mr president, every one of us knows an example where we have put a simple written question to the commission and did not get a proper answer. because of this, i have organised a kind of grassroots initiative which has an oral question with debate to the european commission about that. in the year 2015, 157 members of this house signed, but after three months this oral question lapsed. i started this initiative again in january this year and 246 members signed, but this oral question will again lapse if we do not put it on this week’s agenda. dear colleagues, i think it is not acceptable that 246 members ask for an oral question and nothing happens, but we have good luck because according to the services this week there is some time, and so we can add this point to the agenda without removing another one. i therefore ask you to support this request that we have the debate tonight and please, even if it is very short notice, take the opportunity to take part.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is encouraging to see so many young europeans showing interest in volunteering in solidarity for our social cohesion: 25 000 young people have already applied for the european solidarity corps on the online platform. however, the commission created facts by publishing its online platform and sending its first volunteers without having a legal basis for this and, above all, without having clarified the funding. the committee on culture and education welcomes the commission's initiative to put young people more at the centre of european policy. at the same time, however, we are faced with a number of questions concerning the esc's format, functioning, financing and long-term viability. we therefore point out in our resolution the many weaknesses and failings of the initiative and indicate the conditions which must be met for the esc to be a success. the future of youth work and voluntary service organisations will require close involvement in the development and implementation of the esc. they have a wealth of experience and expertise in volunteering. it would be quite negligent not to use this for the esc. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the achievements of the european voluntary service are not undermined. the creation of a dual structure would not only be ineffective but even harmful. new initiatives need fresh money. erasmus+ is chronically underfunded despite the increase in funding, and good projects - especially in the field of youth work - have to be rejected en masse because of the lack of money. the fact that we are now burdening erasmus+ with a new idea without saying where the necessary funds are to come from is not acceptable to parliament. the esc must not be used to the detriment of existing lines of programmes in erasmus+, and the youth guarantee must also remain sacrosanct. the esc may have a positive side effect in increasing the employability of young people, but it is not a labour market policy instrument. it is therefore necessary to ensure that regular jobs are not replaced by cheap voluntary work. we expect the commission to present a convincing and sustainable approach to the esc. the enthusiasm of young people can quickly turn to frustration, especially when it is clear that not even half of all interested ones will attend this year. in this context, we ask the following questions: first, how could the esc further strengthen the european voluntary service? how will these two initiatives coexist and complement each other in the short and medium term? how will unnecessary overlaps between the two initiatives be avoided and how will the organisations currently involved in european voluntary service be involved in the process? secondly, what eu funding programmes are used to implement the esc in its initial phase and what are the budgetary implications for these programmes? what are the commission's intentions regarding the short, medium and long-term financial sustainability of the esc? and thirdly, how will the commission ensure that volunteering is not systematically used to replace regular jobs, whether full-time or part-time? i look forward to the commission's replies.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european solidarity corps is at the heart of the commission’s focus on youth. i am therefore pleased to discuss this important initiative with you today. as we debate the future of the european union, i think it is appropriate to talk about an action which addresses young people. they have a key role in building the europe of tomorrow and in strengthening central european values, such as engagement and solidarity. the european solidarity corps is a unique opportunity to put european youth, their commitment to solidarity, and their potential at the very centre of our eu agenda. within a few months, as ms kammerevert mentioned, more than 26 000 young people have signed up and the first placements have started. but as with all decisions, we need to make sure we have considered all options and heard all voices. the commission therefore welcomes your questions and your draft motion for a resolution which raised relevant concerns. these are shared by many of the stakeholders we are consulting. let me reassure you that we take these concerns very seriously. they are part of our ongoing reflections as we prepare the legislative proposal, setting up a dedicated framework for the corps. we have to make sure that our proposal is spot-on and meets the expectations of young people and participating organisations. regarding your question about how the different programmes interact within the corps, the european solidarity corps currently builds on a broad range of programmes: erasmus+; employment and social innovation; life; the asylum, migration and integration fund; europe for citizens; the european regional development fund; health; and the agricultural fund for rural development. there is in a sense no need to reinvent the wheel. we want to use this experience and the existing structures of these programmes as a basis. our aim is not to duplicate actions or discontinue what works well. on the contrary, we want to build on the strengths of existing programmes, to increase their visibility, create synergies and offer more opportunities, because the whole is more than the sum of its parts. most of the volunteering activities will build on the european voluntary service, which looks back on 20 years of experience in developing high-quality volunteering placements for young people. all stakeholders involved consider the european voluntary service a major success. solidarity jobs and traineeship placements will build on the success of ‘your first eures job’ and are currently mainly supported by the employment and social innovation programme. a special call for proposals has been launched to get proposals from consortia that will provide solidarity-related placements. the future legal base for the european solidarity corps will further improve, innovate and simplify the current approach. the corps will bring together the activities available under the current programmes, add new activities addressing unmet needs, and use synergies wherever possible. the european solidarity corps portal as a single entry point for interested participants and organisations will ease access to volunteering opportunities, and it will provide digital tools to connect youth eager to express their solidarity with organisations looking for committed young people. the key point is that with the corps we create more opportunities for young people and make it easier for them to access these opportunities. the corps will thus help to meet the real societal needs for solidarity across europe, both within individual member states and across borders. it will also harmonise and modernise the support services on offer. this includes, for example, preparation courses, language training, insurance packages and quality labels for organisations. it also includes participation certificates, as well as tools to recognise the skills acquired by young people during their placements. we share your concerns about reaching out to young people in vulnerable situations. we believe that the european solidarity corps should be accessible to all youth. to reach out to those from less privileged backgrounds the corps will ensure equal access and cater for the needs of under-represented groups by providing targeted and tailored additional support. the forthcoming legislative proposal will be accompanied by appropriate communication and outreach measures. as for the risk of using placements as unpaid work, let me reassure you that organisations wanting to participate in the european solidarity corps need to be accredited. the arrangements to apply under the second phase will be proposed in the draft legal base. what i can tell you at this stage is that for the second phase we are currently considering three different types of placements: volunteering placements, job offers and paid traineeship placements. this way, the corps will also complement the efforts made by member states to implement the youth guarantee. it will provide additional opportunities for young people to make a start on the labour market by engaging in solidarity jobs or paid traineeships. as to skills recognition, participants in the european solidarity corps will be entitled to receive a certificate when they have completed their placements. this could be complemented by a youth pass certificate. the commission will work towards the recognition of the european solidarity corps certificate and related certificates at all levels. you also raised the issue of the quality of placements. this is as important an issue to me as it is to you. participating organisations have to comply with criteria that ensure that they provide only quality offers. in particular, organisations must commit to respecting the european solidarity corps charter in which they pledge to foster the personal, socio-educational and professional development of participants; that they guarantee safe and decent working conditions; and that they provide adequate training for participants. employment offers under the occupational dimension are real jobs that will comply with national laws, regulations and collective agreements. moreover, the principles outlined in the quality framework for traineeships will guide trainee placements offered under the corps. finally, the appropriate funding for the second phase of the european solidarity corps covering the period 2018-2020 is currently assessed by the commission as we prepare the legal basis. honourable members, in conclusion let me thank you again for your interest in this initiative. we can only make it a success together for the benefit of the many enthusiastic young people all over europe eager to make a difference.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i welcome in principle the proposal by the commission's leadership to set up a european solidarity corps to motivate more than a hundred thousand young people to volunteer for projects and to help by 2020. these solidarity projects will benefit communities and people across europe and help social communities to better act and respond to crisis or emergency situations. we as the epp naturally share and support the european solidarity corps' objective of fostering a sense of solidarity among young people in europe and creating a more inclusive society. i would like to make three main points: firstly, there must be no competition between the esc and the existing european voluntary service, which has already provided effective participation of young people in voluntary work. the european commission must quickly clarify the purpose and scope of the european solidarity corps and ensure that it does not undermine the well-run european voluntary service programme. secondly, as a programme devoted to youth, i believe it is urgently necessary to involve youth organisations more closely in the development of the regulatory framework and to define the administrative framework together with them. thirdly, we believe that the financing of the european solidarity corps is still completely unclear. i think that this new programme must also be financed with new money and that it must not be taken out of the funds which are already under severe pressure from the medium-term financial framework. our concern is that the funds will be taken from the erasmus+ budget. this is 'left pocket, right pocket' and leads to frustration in the long run, because if the erasmus+ programmes are cut, the new solidarity corps will not help us any further.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to the colleagues who have initiated this discussion, because we believe that the european solidarity corps is indeed a proposal that can inspire many young people to be more involved in europe. and the fact that so many people have signed up and indicated their willingness to participate in the first few weeks underlines that this proposal from president juncker is going in the right direction. however, we should be careful not to produce just a new window decoration, which is backed by the old offer. and we should be very careful that the proposal does not become a bureaucratic overkill, as the commission has unfortunately succeeded with the wonderful idea of the interrail pass for young people. there are still many questions to be answered. and we should not only discuss these issues among ourselves, but - that would be my appeal - we should also discuss with our colleagues in the national parliaments what their ideas are and bear this together. i see two red lines. one is, "you can't do it without fresh money". the second is that there must be no confusion between labour market policy instruments and voluntary work. but beyond what has already been discussed, i would like the commission to pay particular attention to the possibility of how we can not only engage young people through this european solidarity corps, but also empower them, empower youth organisations to be active in their own initiatives for europe.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am sure that the commissioner will be able to give us a reply to the question. there are certainly cases where the commission cannot answer because it simply does not have the information or because the member states do not provide it. but there are answers where the commission is holding us back because it is examining something and saying: we are still in an examination procedure and we need something more until the answer comes. but then, as a rule, there is no response. there are cases where the commission does not want to answer. i can sometimes understand that, because there are many colleagues who ask an infinite number of questions. we should think about that here in the house. but there are also questions on which the commission does not want to give an answer, for whatever reason, or in case of doubt, because it wants to hide something from us. we have already introduced many, many restrictions here in the european parliament for us members ourselves in order to encourage the commission to improve its answers in return: we have reduced the number, we have reduced the number again, we have reduced the number of words in the questions, you can only ask three sub-questions. so we in parliament have certainly done our part. and that is why today's debate is intended to be just a small sign. we have only a very short debate, we deliberately do not have a resolution, but we would like to remind the commission that the quality should improve. we have a counter-movement that's growing. the last time we changed the rules of procedure in this house, we introduced a small and a large question to the commission. this was a matter of the members' own heart, because we are often dissatisfied. so my request really is: change your practice and keep trying to improve the response. we are particularly interested in the following: 246 members of this house have tabled this joint motion today: firstly, what exact conditions and restrictions has the commission imposed on itself and how does it justify the often absent substantive content? secondly, on what legal basis were these restrictions introduced and at what level was this decision taken? and thirdly, is the commission seeking to change the practice of accountability so that detailed and better responses are expected?
author. – madam president, i am very glad that we are having this debate now in plenary with the european commission on such a vital human rights issue. a lot has already been said about the magnitude of these rights violations and about the relevance of the topic. trafficking in human beings needs to be addressed with a human rights-based and victim-centred approach. victims and vulnerable populations need to be put at the centre of all efforts. the prevention of trafficking in human beings and the protection of its victims must be our priority goal. access to justice, support measures, shelter and education needs to be ensured, independent of the victims’ willingness to cooperate in criminal proceedings. the principle of non-criminalisation in this regard is also vital and needs to be implemented in all member states. further, demand needs to be tackled as it can be considered a root cause. accountability needs to be ensured for both offenders, as well as knowing users. for the new strategy, i think that financial investigations and action against money laundering need to play a bigger part in fighting trafficking in human beings and to ensure that confiscated assets are used to support and compensate victims of trafficking. does the commission agree on this, and how does it intend to address this in the new strategy? i am also worried about the trend of trafficking in human beings being mixed up with other legally distinct concepts such as migrant smuggling, increasingly addressing trafficking in human beings through a security lens, for instance in the context of recent migration policies. how will the commission counter this trend in its new strategy? i also call for greater internal/external coherence in the fight against trafficking in human beings and to further enhance and deepen cooperation and coordination among all relevant actors. finally, what exactly is the timeline for the adoption of the new strategy?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. human trafficking is a multibillion dollar, inhuman and incredibly dirty crime. anyone involved on any level - and there are many - deserves harsh punishment and no mercy. i am convinced that it is precisely as the european union, as a union of values, that we must take a decisive stand against all forms of trafficking in human beings. this heinous crime affects some 21 million poor women, children, expectant mothers every year. they are all abused for forced labor or sexual exploitation. if we do not turn a blind eye to this, we will be fighting forced prostitution and promoting the nordic model. let us protect our children, especially the children of refugee families, here in europe. we are doing everything possible across borders to find abducted children and give them a safe home. we need a clear voice here. we also condemn and prohibit surrogacy as a form of sexual exploitation, a new form of slavery, as the european parliament and the council of europe are clearly calling for. commissioner, do you agree with me on this point?
i have to say, madam president, today we are talking about human trafficking - people who are abducted to become prostitutes or forced laborers. as early as 2009, europol found that open borders within europe facilitate this trafficking. in the old days, before schengen, it was difficult to smuggle people from east to west. today, countries of origin, such as russia or turkey, are only a border check away. in the past, only highly sophisticated criminal gangs, criminal organizations, could succeed in human smuggling. today, europol says, it is easy, and that is the problem. you remember the result of two weeks of border controls at the g7 summit in elmau in 2015: 120 successful searches, 80 criminal cases. border controls are important, they are possible and they are effective, and those who deplore human trafficking but do not want to protect borders are lying to themselves.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, mrs hazekamp. you're from the netherlands, i understand. i think you have a very special responsibility for indonesia, because as far as i know west papua has been completely depopulated. it's home to less than 50% of the original population, and it's also a palm oil-producing area. could we not start labelling the palm oil from west papua, or, if that is not enough, threatening sanctions if they do not stop depopulating the country there?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a very important issue on the agenda today with palm oil. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for the good work we have done together in the run-up to the debate. we worked very well together at various technical meetings, but also at the shadow meeting, and we also worked out a good recommendation. after all, 40% of the world's deforestation is caused by the creation of large-scale palm oil monocultures. this problem has been raised by colleagues here on several occasions: deforestation is actually releasing an extra 1.5 gigatons of carbon dioxide. that's about a quarter of the annual emissions from fossil fuels here in the eu. this is affecting nearly 70 million people with unhealthy air, and it is leading to thousands of premature deaths. but valuable plants and animals are also being lost. the most urgent problem is therefore that we must oppose deforestation and establish a uniform certification system, which includes this.
the commission has already done so. palm oil production is extremely damaging to biodiversity, and huge areas of rainforest have been and are being destroyed for it. many species are losing their habitat and dying out. palm oil is also harmful to people, as the land grabbing by big corporations is ruining the indigenous population. so the price of cheap palm oil is paid by people, animals and nature. palm oil is the third most environmentally damaging agricultural product, after meat and soybeans. the konečná report deserves our support, because it contains good proposals for solutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. but we must accept the fact that there is no such thing as truly ecologically sustainable and socially produced palm oil, and there never will be. so let us join the fight against unregulated palm oil production with this report, commissioner.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner vella, i am disappointed with the answer you have given. unfortunately, that's very unambitious, and you're relying on voluntary partnerships. that's not going to solve the problem. we must do something about consumption, as many colleagues have said. palm oil is a cheap substitute in food. but what's a real scandal is that 45 percent of the palm oil - after all, a million acres - actually migrates into agrofuels. we have to stop this now, not in 2020. it's dirty fuel, and you can't put an eco-label on it. but we must also deal with the fact that european companies, european banks are still involved in financing the deal. we're gonna have to put a stop to that. but we 've all agreed: a lot of deforestation is due to palm oil, a lot of emissions are due to palm oil, and then there are still some that come with sustainability certificates like the roundtable on palm oil. there is no sustainable certification at the moment that really lives up to its name. we need to set criteria that are truly sustainable and not participate in this label scam.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the current meat scandal in brazil is also a very sensitive issue for us here. the citizens of the european union are quite right to demand that the high standards which are universally accepted within the eu should also apply to imported goods. this means that these standards for the whole production chain must also be insistently demanded by our non-european trading partners. in order to draw the right conclusions and take the necessary measures, all the facts and background must be brought to the table immediately. consumer protection is essential. the public expects a clear line here. we must also be concerned about this with regard to the future of our trade relations. people want transparency and secure, reliable control and protection systems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is therefore in our interest to put thoroughness before speed and to put an end to criminal activities with a functioning and effective control system.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner has acted rather quickly in this case, but the question is: what did you do before? were the checks effective? and you have not answered the question: has meat really entered the european market? you haven't been able to answer that conclusively. this is not a trivial scandal. the meat was contaminated with salmonella, so it was a real health hazard. that means that there is really the highest level of alert. and the commission is now doing a bit of business as usual and saying: 'it's all right, we've got it under control.' but the matter is more serious, especially since this scandal has shown that there is a system error in at least 21 production facilities. massive corruption, fraud, even in the highest governmental positions - this is not even a small scandal, this is a scandal of the entire brazilian sector, so to speak. and so the question is, what are the consequences? the issue of mercosur negotiations has been raised several times today. there can be no business as usual, there must be consequences. because what will come out of this is that consumer standards, safety standards will probably not rise, but rather that there will be liberalization in this area again and consumer protection and the rights of small farmers will be secondary to mercosur. i have no confidence in the brazilian government either, to be honest. we have seen the minister of agriculture in the committee on agriculture, he is himself part of the agribusiness with 200 000 hectares. i don't have faith that if someone like that wants to solve the scandal, there will be consequences. we europeans must be consistent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i also greet the representatives of the maltese presidency of the council. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this report. it is certainly a very technical report, but it is also a very comprehensive and important one. it is also necessary to make the regulation on the definition of fishing vessel data very clear. the technical and physical data must be consistent. the current state of play of these vessel data is summarised in this regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. until now, the data relating to fishing vessels had been regulated by the regulation (eec) no 2658/86 of 1986. but in the context of simplifying, that is, making union law clearer, more understandable, this legal act has now, of course, been codified in a new version, so to speak. this means that the law applicable to a particular area is systematically summarised in a coherent body of legislation, so that it does not always have to be grouped together in separate paragraphs. the substantive content of this codified act has been fully preserved, and it is only a necessary adaptation to the current state of the international organization for standardization, to which all the member states belong. the regulation regulates the legal content, the definition of these data: length overall, width, tonnage, i.e. gross tonnage, archimedean displacement, engine power, i.e. which trawler, which fishing gear can also be carried there with a corresponding towing capacity, and of course the ship register and the date on which the vessel was put into service. it is necessary to work for all the member states in the european union with the same characteristics. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in the interests of the fishermen themselves to take a decision on the matter. the 15 metres must have an electronic logbook, they must have a vessel monitoring system and also the ais, the automatic ship identification system. and that is why we must agree on the conventions on which the member states are based, so to speak: the 1969 london international convention on vessel surveys and the torremolinos convention on the safety of fishing vessels and their crew, both under the auspices of the international maritime organisation. the adaptation to the lisbon treaty - i have already mentioned this - is necessary and involves a transfer of powers in the form of delegated acts. but here you're looking at engine power, towing power. the commission's original request was that delegated acts should not be limited in time. but we did that together in parliament for five years. it is a legal exercise, so to speak, and it is necessary that we tackle these characteristics of fishing vessels together. i should like to say a word about the amendment tabled by the gue and my colleague, mrs ní riada. we have discussed whether it is possible to add such an amendment. but unfortunately, the big problem is that we're not finding a coherent alignment here. we find it very difficult, in terms of the characteristics of vessels, in terms of length, in terms of power, to define precisely what are small-scale fishing vessels, what are medium-scale fishing vessels and what are deep-sea fishing vessels. i think we should take this subject up again in another situation. i would like to thank all of you again and look forward to hearing the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their constructive attitude towards this file. as already mentioned, rightly, the purpose of this proposal was to undertake a codification of council regulation no 2930/86 of 22 september 1986 defining the characteristics for fishing vessels. the new regulation will supersede the various acts incorporated in it and this proposal fully preserves the content of the acts being codified and, hence, does no more than bring them together with only such formal amendments as are required by the codification exercise itself. further to codifying the above-mentioned regulation, the commission proposal also includes a substantive amendment with a view to delegating powers to the commission to this end. as a result, the proposal is being presented in the form of a recast. with regard to the two amendments refused, they were refused on formal procedural grounds as they would change the law. so this is a recast, but we still take note of all the concerns and all the comments. i would like again to thank mr kuhn, the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, and all the meps who contributed to this debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank my colleagues for their reporting. i have also been very pleased to incorporate constructive suggestions from your side into this dossier. we have repeatedly come up with the basic regulation to the point: how can we specifically promote small-scale and artisanal fishing? and the definition, as ricardo serrão santos said earlier, is highly complicated and varies greatly from region to region. and mrs ní riada, it is difficult to define in this very formal dossier - it is a regulation - now a definition for small and artisanal fishing, the installation of fishing vessels in centimetres in length, displacement and engine power, all of this - this can be completely different in another country than in ireland - or large factory ships, exactly what power they are allowed to have, what size, how much frost, catch and processing capacity, how much tonnage, how much fuel they are allowed to carry and, and, and. i would therefore propose that the coordinators meet in the next or next meeting, perhaps with the commissioner's support, and that an owninitiative report be drawn up on this subject and that the definition be defined in terms of small-scale and artisanal fisheries and of course medium-scale fishing vessels and of course deep-sea fishing vessels, at least in such a way that each member state has the opportunity to make a clear distinction between small-scale and coastal fishing, or deep-sea fishing vessels and even ordinary trawlers over 15 metres, where the monitoring system and the ais is the automatic vessel information system, and that we can perhaps get a solution and go one step further. i would like to thank all of you, the commissioner, my rapporteurs and the maltese presidency of the council, which, as an island, has a long history of fishing and shipbuilding, and which has made a particular impression on me as a shipbuilding engineer.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr jens gieseke and mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, on behalf of the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector, on the inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector (2016/2215 (ini)) (a8-0049/2017).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thank you for the good cooperation of my co-reporter gerben-jan gerbrandy and all the shadow reporters. twelve months of work, 27 meetings and 47 hearings have been completed. we have already adopted the final report in committee and have made good progress. we have succeeded in presenting a balanced report and we are now faced with a vote in the plenary. what conclusions can we draw from the work of the past twelve months? the report's conclusion is clear: no one has actually assumed that there was deliberate fraud. furthermore, no law in the world can fully protect against willful fraud. it is also clear that the current regulations on emissions control offer too much room for interpretation. the commission and the member states should have imposed clearer rules and acted earlier. that is why i demand: firstly, we urgently need to implement the emissions tests in real road operation. the commission has already proposed a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. secondly, we need better market surveillance. the aim is to eliminate deficits between member states and the european commission. the cooperation between the member states and the commission has not worked. neither the commission nor the member states have considered the shutdown devices as a possible cause of the discrepancies between the nox emissions measured in the laboratory and those measured on the road. the scope and the provisions of the ban on switching off have never been contested by any party, and no one has asked for clarification here. emission reduction strategies this sounds very technical; it is. however, if these so-called strategies mean that the emission control is fully activated within a certain thermal window, i.e. only at a certain temperature, it is very difficult to justify this on the grounds of engine protection. the same applies to a specific time window, if this time window is approximately equal to the test duration on the rolling stock. here, engine protection has been very broadly constructed, also at the expense of environmental protection and air quality. this is not acceptable. in addition, the rules of eu law on exemptions for switching off devices are not applied uniformly in europe. that is why we need more than ever a uniform implementation of the law in the eu. in the event of disagreements, the european union must be given powers to take legally binding decisions. otherwise, there will continue to be a difference in the application of the law. the commission has not monitored the enforcement of the ban on the switching devices, although it was obliged to do so. most member states have not put in place an effective, proportionate and dissuasive system of penalties to prevent the unlawful use of shut-off devices. neither the commission nor the member states can be given a good report in this respect. but now we must look ahead. as regards better market surveillance and uniform enforcement, some colleagues keep bringing up the idea of an eu agency, following the motto: if there is a problem, i will simply invent a new agency. i wonder why. there are already 34 decentralized agencies, with more executive agencies to come. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we do not need another bureaucratic agency to monitor the market and ensure uniform legislation. the european commission could take on the task much more efficiently and cost-effectively. i am surprised, commissioner bieńkowska, that the commission does not seem to be taking on this task. so we as the epp are confiding this task to you as commissioner and to you as commissioner in any case. we're here for you. in addition, some colleagues are calling for compensation from consumers. first of all, we must note that there is no uniform legal basis in europe, as in the united states, for example. in europe we have a high level of consumer protection compared to the rest of the world. this protection is defined at the level of the member states - and that is a good thing - and is ultimately assessed by the courts. i think that in this context some of the amendments for today's vote in the plenary are noteworthy. on the one hand, full compensation is demanded, on the other hand, no worker should be adversely affected by such compensation. if you make such a demand, you should also be honest that you are putting hundreds of thousands of jobs in the automotive industry at risk. a policy of 'wash my fur but don't wet me' will not work. the commission has also been able to retrofit european vehicles to comply with the limit values. this was not possible in america. and finally, this kind of compensation does not solve the real problem. this is the last and most important point i would like to conclude with: the real problem is poor air quality. we have now tabled an amendment in the epp plenary, where we are setting up an environmental fund so that those who are really affected, namely cyclists and pedestrians, will be compensated in the end. it is not only the consumer as the buyer of a vehicle who is affected, but above all the pedestrians and cyclists. i believe that we, as the epp, are innovative and progressive here. i expect the greens to support this. bas eickhout is here, he's laughing, he'll certainly support us on this issue because it's an innovative approach.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have rarely seen events where so much, so unrestrained and so brazenly lied as in some of the hearings of this committee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on the other hand, organizations such as the german environmental aid were the voice of the desert, and i thank them. consumers have been cheated for years and now they are not even compensated in europe and this is not reflected in the report. i hate that. so no compensation for cars that pollute the air and manufacturers who ignore the environment and the health of citizens. what we really need are tough rules, controls and sanctions and strong european supervision to back them up. the diesel, ladies and gentlemen, at least the diesel is a dinosaur, and those who still bet on it - and let us say this to the unions - will miss the train, and thousands of workers will be left sitting at the station. we need a fundamental change in the automotive and automotive industry before it's too late.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, today we are closing one chapter in the saga that we call dieselgate. unfortunately, it is not going to be the last scandal of its kind. we can prevent this particular scandal from being repeated by creating an independent eu oversight agency, but the next fraud and the next violation of the rules will be just as difficult to uncover as this one if we do not improve the accountability of our institutions. today we are sending a clear signal to the commission that its practices on access to documents are unacceptable. let us be crystal clear about this. a commission that discards all information, all emails and all minutes after six months, unless an official has explicitly marked them as important, will never be a champion of transparency and it will remain part of the problem. let us end this institutional amnesia policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in the work of the committee of inquiry we have identified serious failings both on the part of the european commission and on the part of the member states which have favoured the emissions scandal. for example, european rules were sloppy and sometimes not implemented by the member states, and the commission failed to follow up on indications. the type-approval system has also proved to be extremely flawed. i therefore make three recommendations: firstly, a european agency must be created which will monitor the activities of the national type-approval authorities and at least clarify the confusion of 28 different national authorities. secondly, consumer rights must be strengthened. it cannot be that we in europe do not have a legal framework for class actions. i think that needs to change. and thirdly, we must actually and truly introduce sanctions and deterrent fines or enforce them against those car manufacturers who have not yet complied with the rules. i therefore call on all members, and in particular the epp, to take up these proposals again and to support them. thank you, thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by commenting on the rules of procedure, if i may, before you allow me the limited time i have. i would like to point out that the german translation of the report, and in particular paragraph one, the last sentence of the conclusions, has been translated in a meaningful way. i would ask that this be noted and checked, and i would also ask the bureau to consider how to ensure that the translations into the languages of the individual member states are such that the reports can be received in an appropriate manner. i would therefore like to ask the question: what kind of quality control is there when documents are translated into - let us say - the working language of english and then into other languages of member states?
we shall take note of that as a contribution to the rules of procedure. i can't answer that right now, but we'll look into it and you'll get an answer. now, let's start with the usual speech.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is undeniable that there is a great scandal here, and it is also undeniable that there has been fraud and deception on a large scale by manufacturers of passenger cars. the real scandal is that there is a failure of the european commission, a failure of the member states and a considerable failure of the european parliament. if we start with the european commission, we have to say that the discrepancies between emissions in test operation and emissions in normal road operation have been known for more than ten years. it has been known for more than 20 years that there are switching devices which can be responsible for such deviations, and yet the commission has turned a blind eye to this and has not adequately checked whether there is no possibility of fraud by the manufacturer. this is a clear case of policy failure. a second case of policy failure is also found in the european parliament. the european parliament has adopted legislation which has been so soft and so imprecise that it has been an invitation to deception. it has allowed the use of shutdowns or emission reduction strategies - whatever you want to call them - when damage to the engine can be avoided. that is a completely weak and inadequate formulation, and here the european parliament must take it upon itself to say what mistakes it has made. unfortunately, there is no adequate reference to this in the investigation report. thirdly, we must also note that i think i have half a minute left, mr president, because, as i said, my speaking time did not begin until after the motion for a resolution had been tabled.
mr lucke, your group has given you a minute and a half.
that is correct, but you had already set the clock running when i was speaking on the rules of procedure.
no, no, definitely not we're very strict about that.
then leave me there for a moment...
then finish the sentence and then we'll move on.
the justification of the agency on the grounds that the european commission might be politicised is a completely inadequate argument. the european parliament must ensure that the commission does not act politically in future.
i'm not going to lie. would you be so kind as to tell me again which sentence does not make sense to you in translation? number one, last sentence, is that clear?
conclusions, paragraph 1 the connection between the penultimate and the last sentence is completely meaningless.
we'll look into it. so i don't think it's pointless, but we'll have the legal linguists check it out. so, we'll move on to the next speaker. that is after you, mr lucke, mrs gesine meissner for a minute please!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the committee of inquiry was about determining who knew what when and did nothing. it wasn't about whether diesel is good or not good. diesel was also used to reduce co2 emissions, with less attention paid to nox. the fact is that we set nox limits in 2007, and the problem is that nobody has taken care to comply with them. firstly, it is true that the law at the time created grey areas by not having a compliance factor. the second is that, above all, it was quite obvious that the commission, the member states and the industry were all relatively indifferent to whether or not there were limits. they were outnumbered by three to one. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. it was ignored at the time, and unfortunately it is only now being introduced. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. all levels must not only make laws, but also obey them. if we can do that, we'll have clean air.
the commission has already done so. one year emissions committee what are the most important points and recommendations for me? the first is clear: the diesel is not doomed to die, it will remain one of several drive technologies in the automotive industry for years, perhaps decades to come. the second point is that we need clear and unambiguous legislation, otherwise we would not have had the debate on whether the shutdown of the engine control system is legal protection of components or illegal fraud. thirdly, emissions measurements must be more accurately traceable, because results from the laboratory which cannot be traced and reached on the street do not help the consumer, do not help the environment and do not help the manufacturer. that is why we have real driving emissions in the future and have also created a solution at european level. i think that the commission should be able to take a more positive view of the problem. we already have the type approval offices in europe, we do not need anything new. we'll have a new agency when we do. it'll take us three to five years to build them. in the meantime, not much would change and we should rather strengthen existing structures. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those who have come to this committee: ngos, car manufacturers, research institutes. because we don't actually have the authority in our committee to subpoena anyone. perhaps the european parliament should change this, so that we have greater powers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to make three comments. the first point i would like to make is to thank the rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee for the report. the committee has done a really good job. there have been 47 hearings. the hearings i was able to attend - there were not many - were very intensive, detailed discussions with critical questions. it was really good. the second point i would like to make is this: what lessons have we learned from the dieselgate scandal? the most important thing for me is that in the future we have a test on the road, that we have a test in real driving conditions. for myself, i have to admit, it's a bit unexplainable and really not comprehensible that we're not going to get there until 2017. it has been raised: the issue of 'laboratory testing with falsified values versus testing under real driving conditions' is an age-old one. i remember it well . this was also a topic in the climate protection package we discussed in parliament in 2007/2008. so it's already a failure on all channels. i do not know whether we in parliament are the main culprits. i don't think so, because we are lawmakers and we don't have to worry about enforcement. but the fact that it's taking so long is actually completely unfathomable and unintelligible. all politicians should take a look at their own noses. my third point is also very important to me: we have euro 5 and euro 6 standards, we have strict values, strict co2 requirements and we want our cars to be low-emission and low-pollution. if you look at today's diesel, technologically, it's not a problem at all to meet euro 5, euro 6 standards. the same applies to the strict ceilings. i say this because i think it would be completely wrong to withdraw diesel from circulation now. no, we need diesel technology for many, many years to come. and, as i said, the new cars can meet these strict limits. so please don't give diesel the fight in general.
thank you, also, for your excellent punctuality. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
thank you very much, commissioner. that was an important debate. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
before we move on to the next item on the agenda, i have an announcement to make. as you will recall, on 14 march 2017, the president decided to impose a sanction on mr korwin-mikke for making unacceptable remarks about women in the march 1st session. this penalty consists of three measures: (1) loss of the right to daily allowance for 30 days, (2) without prejudice to the right to vote in plenary, (3) suspension from participation in all parliament's activities for 10 days when parliament or one of its organs, committees or delegations is in session, and (4) prohibition for one year from representing parliament in an interparliamentary delegation or in an interinstitutional forum. mr korwin-mikke lodged an appeal against that decision on 27 march. the bureau considered this complaint yesterday and confirmed the president's decision. the sanction shall take effect immediately.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr daniel dalton, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles (com (2016) 0031 - c8-0015/2016 - 2016/0014 (cod)) (a8-0048/2017).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the car is a european invention, but the european union has no part in it. the major european car brands are the result of french inventiveness, german engineering and italian daring and design. the european commission has not invented anything. it is only regulating, and if it had existed 150 years ago, we might not have had major european car companies today. the commission is presenting a draft which spins a whole network of authorities whose threads end up in the hands of the commission, and the rapporteur is adding those points which would almost have been missed in the commission text if he were a german. the amendments to the report show the hatred of the german automobile industry. the car manufacturers who make customers happy all over the world and to whom we owe a good part of germany's prosperity appear to be the environmental aggressors, the serious criminals, who the commission and its thousand authorities must catch with ever more sophisticated methods of investigation if the continent is not to end in disaster. mr. dalton, what do you have against volkswagen? and why do you think the commission, of all institutions, could do anything to improve the situation? you forgot that the 2007 type approval directive found meaningless lab test cycles to be sufficient? do you forget that the commission knew about the divergent emission figures since 2010 at the latest and turned a blind eye? and do you think the new regulation will actually protect the health of consumers? your party has demonstrated in britain that it is capable of almost destroying the automobile industry. the fact that you are now trying to do this again for continental europe just before brexit has a special note. but the environmental advisory committee is the final straw. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. and in the halls of parliament, advertising stands for the automobile market monitoring agency are set up with giant purple pillows that look like the vaginal costumes of trump opponents in the us. ladies and gentlemen, we have no shortage of control. we have had rules that are far removed from reality, that are not based on real driving conditions, and we have had a commission that has closed its eyes. that's the cause of the scandal. you will not change that with this report, mr dalton.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the draft report by daniel dalton gives a very clear answer to the central question, namely whether europe - with italy, germany and france, as just mentioned - will finally have uniform answers to uniform problems. we have missed that painfully in the whole vehicle registration debate. it is not possible that the type-approval authority in one country of the european union comes to the conclusion that a car can be registered, while the authority in another country comes to a different conclusion for the same car. if we allow such conditions to exist in europe, we are in fact heading for disaster, because the internal market will lose its acceptance and its foundation. the most important step we are taking now is therefore to ensure that we succeed in making a marketing authorisation a marketing authorisation for the whole of the internal market. and if there is any misunderstanding between different authorities, then and only then does the european commission have the competence to define scientifically clearly which elements must be taken into account in the authorization and which must not. this is progress for all of us. and that is why i am so glad that the greens and pascal durand, the social democrats and the liberals, that we are all pulling together, that we are trying to get things on the right track, and that we are focused on results. the european agency, which is constantly floating in the debate, is, of course, a favourite project for some people, and that is politically correct. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and that is why the epp group is rather sceptical about this proposal. but if the system does one day really work, we will be the last to completely abandon this basic european idea. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
blue-card answer. – thank you, colleague, for your interesting question. from my point of view, there is no further burden with this regulation. for the car manufacturers the big advantage will be that they can be sure that if they have one type approval it is a type approval for the whole european union. that is cheaper than everything we have seen in the past and therefore i think we are reducing the burden for companies with that proposal, not raising it. it is fine if this is ultimately done by the commission, if national authorities are not able to find the right way between themselves.
blue-card question. – i was glad to listen to bas eickhout’s explanations on the agency, and i would like to come back on his point and ask a question. for what reason do you believe that an independent agency, as opposed to all the agencies we already have, will really bring the advantages that you have explained here? would it not be better to keep this chamber here as a control on the commission, as a political authority, to make sure that what happened in the past will definitely not happen again?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are here in the midst of a very important piece of legislation in which we have to ensure that the safety and also the health of the citizens is put first, and that is one of the most important issues. we must also learn the right lessons from the emis committee report, namely that we cannot leave it to the member states alone to decide what should and should not be done here. and there is a very important question to be settled here, whether we need a european agency or not, and like my colleague christel schaldemose, i am quite convinced that we need one. and i have to be honest, once again the right wing, the epp, has shown its true face. in the emis committee, they voted in favour of this report, which is very important, very, very important, but not legally binding. the internal market committee is then concerned with legislation, that is to say, with making a binding decision, and you are voting against that. so what's this about? yes, to make big slogans, but when it comes to making this happen, they're gone! so i ask you to be a little more honest about what you are doing and to join us in making sure that we really have these regulatory measures that are really so important for the future. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's internal market. the european commission itself has confirmed to us that the member states are willing to actually implement european legislation, and we need an independent agency that really does its job, and we have also seen that it is not enough to simply put this in the hands of the european commission. that's why i say, yes, we need it! it's not bureaucracy anymore. it is more secure for the citizens.
the commission has already done so. we are seeing a discrepancy between good emission legislation on the one hand and poor controls on the other. as rapporteur for euro 3 and euro 4, i introduced the ban on electronic switching devices and said at the time: we need stronger surveillance. we need stronger market surveillance and a change in the type-approval directive. the council - which is not here today - strongly rejected this. and that's exactly what led to this result, that we had to find that apparently gaps were being looked for and that they were being exploited by car companies. we need a clear european monitoring of compliance with our rules, and this must be the result of this legislative process. i can only give our negotiating team all the power in the world to get things going so that it can prevail against the council and really establish a reasonable monitoring system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is excellent that we are finally making effective market surveillance compulsory. the fact that this legislation now allows and requires vehicles to be tested after they have been put into service is an important step in the right direction to detect fraudulent intentions in emissions measurements. i am glad that we have also succeeded in putting a lid on possible conflicts of interest by strengthening the independence of the national type-approval authorities from the automotive industry. however, i am strongly against a new eu authority, and not just because i fear additional bureaucracy. we must get rid of the reflex of seeing the solution to every problem as the creation of a new agency, rather than resorting to the existing structures and making them more efficient. let us strengthen the european commission by giving it the power to carry out appropriate surveillance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on friday we will have a eurogroup meeting. again and again it looks like there might not actually be real progress on the greek programme and the eurogroup, as we know, is led by a man who told us very clearly what he thinks about women and what he thinks about southern member states. by his absence today he shows us also what he thinks about the european parliament. while he is a very big problem, he is not our only problem in that matter. the whole eurozone, and hence also the whole future of the european union, is being held hostage by the dogma of austerity. to believe growth will come if households are shrinking, if they have to be cut and also the state expenditure is being cut – well, that is not going to happen. that is just economic nonsense. extreme poverty has increased by almost seven times in the last years in greece while state spending has been cut by more than 30%, which is the biggest reduction per capita in the whole eurozone. while all of that is happening the imf and also some member states are demanding more and more cuts. they ask for further reductions in pensions, saying that the greek pension system is too generous, but actually the truth is that greek pensioners are much worse off than pensioners anywhere else in europe. in greece 43% of pensioners live on less than eur 660 per month, making those who worked hard for their whole life extremely vulnerable to poverty and to social exclusion. the whole future of europe is also being held hostage by some member states who think they can win elections by causing hardship elsewhere, and that should not happen. labour rights, social rights and eu law are applicable everywhere in the european union and by telling greece that it should not apply collective bargaining we are imposing an arbitrary deviation from that european social model. while we are saying the whole time that greece should follow european rules, what we are actually telling them to do is abandon those very rules and that is just schizophrenic. if we truly want recovery in greece, if we truly want to work together for a common future we cannot allow greece to be made into an experimental ground for zero labour rights. and sure, to overcome the dogma of austerity, to invest in a sustainable economy, to carry out intelligent reforms and to get real on debt relief, that might not be popular in every single member state. it actually takes courage to argue that we are all going to benefit from this in the long term, that we should invest in our common good rather than cutting the ground from under our feet, to show solidarity instead of contempt. but this courage is necessary if we want to build our common future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is now almost exactly seven years since the then greek prime minister papandreou told europeans that the country was on the verge of insolvency. seven years! and yet we still have to have these debates here. this shows the real problem: in these seven years, it has succeeded in taking other countries under the bailout umbrella to release them back into the capital markets, and one country has not succeeded. now, when i have heard all the speeches so far that say, "everyone else is to blame and the country itself is not", i just don't understand it, because others have managed to implement adaptation programmes in a shorter time. i 've been asking myself a few questions . why is greece one of the few countries where shipowners are not taxed at all? even under a communist, mr tsipras, this has not changed. why is greece a country that fails to tax the foreign wealth of its own citizens? all the countries of the european union are doing it, but the greeks are not. why is greece, despite being so poor that it can invest over two percent of its economic power in defense, able to do so and thus be held in high regard by mr. trump? i am asking myself: is it right to stand with mr trump rather than with those who are asked to show solidarity? and that is why i am very clear: homework must be done here and not always appeal to others. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i do not know to which part of my speech you are referring, because i am not in a position to answer questions which were addressed to other members. i just want to point out: according to commission documents, greece alone has a tax arrears of over eur 80 billion, on a scale similar to the third aid package. if only we could collect these tax arrears, there would be no need to cut back or to ask for more money from the european donors. and that is why i say: things must be done at home, and then there is also solidarity from us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. how many times have i heard this: "we are approaching the shore of salvation". now you say: the greeks can see the light at the end of the tunnel and unemployment has also fallen. she went back because people are emigrating! and you said it would be better greece is in the ninth year of a recession! we are presented with wrong figures in this parliament year after year. i compared it to this: the forecast and actual figures differ by 4.95 percentage points. this is no longer parliament's information, this is numerical demagogy! and then they say, "yes, the primary surplus has gone up. i know that. i'm a financial scientist. you just skip out on expenses or don't pay bills anymore. that's how you reduce the deficit. this is no way to give a country a future! i want to make it clear that this is not about greece, but about the cohesion of the euro area. i do not want greece to be sacrificed on the altar of the euro. i do not want the euro-ideology to destroy europe. i want people and nations to live in greece again!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. i am surprised that after so many years in greece the reforms have still not led to success. the european union's policies have led to the greek people bleeding and the capital being lost. why don't you just think about getting this country out of the eu, out of the euro, so that the people can take their own future into their own hands?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's really high time we got better medical device law. numerous scandals have shaken the trust of patients, and even reputable companies have been discredited by some who have cheated massively. a few weeks ago the european court of justice reviewed the pip scandal and unfortunately the ecj found that there is no obligation in our law to carry out unannounced on-the-spot checks on products. that's why we need to change something. if we accept the two reports tomorrow, we will introduce unannounced on-the-spot checks. it is not just the paper that must be controlled, but what is really going on. we can thus detect black sheep, and it will certainly create a different spirit in companies too, if they know that they can be checked at any time without warning. scandals have been caused not only by breast implants, but also by hip implants, by stents that are implanted in vessels that supply the brain, for example, and by diagnostic tests such as genetic testing, dna testing or hiv testing. it was a test on the market for years that had a significantly higher false negative rate than other tests. that means there was an hiv virus, but the test said there was no hiv virus. imagine the problems that result when such false information leads to blood donation or unprotected sex! that's why we have to check in unannounced. that is why we have to introduce other things with this legislation: stronger control of the designated bodies. for high-risk products, the tests are not only carried out by the same scrutiny procedure as for medical devices, but also by a network of reference laboratories that monitor compliance with the standards, and we have also prescribed clinical proof for the tests. the test must say what it claims to say. on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this was particularly important to my group: we do not want to adopt rules which will only create unnecessary bureaucracy. only paperwork is not good for the patient, and that is why we have rejected, for example, that the council for medical devices class a it is for example such simple things as a urine cup has prescribed that you have to fill out new papers regularly about the periodic safety update report. we need a balance of control, but also the opportunity for innovation and for companies to develop, and we have done that quite well. another aspect was very important to parliament and to me personally: we wanted to control the quality of sensitive dna tests not only better, but also to establish rules for their use. dna testing can have a big impact, so people need to know what's coming and also have the freedom to say no to a test. unfortunately, the council of ministers was not prepared to accept the wording of the amendment which this parliament adopted by a large majority, but we have reached a compromise: there is an obligation to provide information on genetic testing and a detailed obligation to provide genetic counselling for diseases which cannot be treated according to the state of science. and this is true of most prenatal diagnostics, so there is a need for consultation here as well. we shall be careful to implement this point. i think that we have reached a good compromise and i would also like to thank all those who have contributed to it: the commission, the presidency of the council, mrs glenis willmott as co-rapporteur, all the shadow rapporteurs, above all mairead mcguinness for the epp, and - ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude - our staff. you can't imagine how many hours, evenings and weekends, have been invested to achieve this good result. i would like to thank you again and ask for your approval in plenary tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would also like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mr glenis willmott and mr peter liese. with glennie, it was a little more because her file was a little bigger. but both of them fought tremendously, and it was a really, really difficult process. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. so it's really everything that people really need when they get sick. we had, in hours, 30 hours of trilogue, more than 200 hours of technical meetings, 700 pages of documentation to work on. i've never had a legal case this complicated. it was blocked in the council for a long time until they reached an agreement there. and in the end, we in parliament were actually very much in agreement on many things and were glad that we had succeeded. it is actually, as has been said, we have more patient safety now. that's good after the breast implant scandal -- that was the trigger -- and we still don't have central approval, which is good, because otherwise that would have made it harder for innovation and for patients to access certain medications. so it's good that we got this one. what's this about? i would like to say a few things. one for risk classes. i learned a lot, too, i must say. for example, risk class 1 is a nursing bed, 2a is hearing aids, 2b is dental implants, and risk class 3 is cardiac catheters. and depending on the risk class, there are special authorization procedures, and then there is more liability or compensation for the producers. these are all things we discussed. recycling was a big problem. i thought the same thing. you can't recycle disposable products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so we really went through these things. i also disagree a little bit with peter liese on the subject of tests. i think it's good that we've kept access to testing relatively low-key, because i think that's what patients need. finally, an urgent request to the commission: there are a lot of implementing and delegated acts that have to come now, sometimes before the designated bodies have even been designated. a heartfelt plea to the commission: make sure you have enough resources to be able to implement everything the way patients in europe need it. that would be great .
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank all those who have contributed to this important dossier: mrs willmott, the british member, mr peter liese, and of course mairead mcguinness, who is here in the group. the pip scandal shocked us all extraordinarily a few years ago. with this legislation today, we are providing many of the answers that are necessary to ensure patient safety on the one hand, but on the other hand not to unnecessarily impede the incredible potential for innovation in medical technology. it was necessary to have many difficult discussions, and there was a great need for change, including on the commission's proposal. but we have managed to make the current outcome of these discussions as unbureaucratic as possible - as unbureaucratic as such complicated issues are - while at the same time achieving greater safety for patients and not making the innovation aspect of the medical technology industry too difficult. an important element, which has been mentioned on occasion, is that implementation must be the same everywhere in europe. this will improve the security of all europeans. there will be no different implementing options, but we must make sure that it is implemented in a uniform way. the medical technology industry will eventually have to be measured against a law throughout europe. we need pragmatic solutions, and we need flexible solutions that allow us to bring this high potential for innovation to patients at the end of the day. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this.
member of the commission. – mr president, i truly believe that this is an important day for eu patients, medical society and industry – especially its innovative sectors – and for all eu citizens. thank you all for making this happen. we have set the conditions for europeans to receive the safest and most reliable healthcare, and for the eu to remain at the forefront of innovation in the field. however, let me also add that the adoption of these two comprehensive texts represents only the beginning of a long and challenging process. we now need to make sure that the new system is effectively put on the ground and delivers the expected added value to all stakeholders. the commission will continue to consider this dossier as an utmost priority. i am confident that with the support of the european parliament, national authorities, patients and all the relevant operators, the challenge of the implementation of this new legal framework will be met successfully and, very importantly, in good time. i wish you all the best and thank you very much indeed.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i too would like to thank you very much for the support you have received from almost all the speakers. i'm very happy about that. i would like to comment briefly on the criticism voiced by ukip. i am sorry to say that mrs reid is no longer here, so she cannot hear this now, but perhaps she can be told. it is not a question of the member states being involved. i think we need to be clear that when these products are traded in the single market, we also have common standards for control. it is not possible that we have an open free market and that the health of consumers is not protected by common standards, and i believe that ukip and its allies will still see the enormous problems that will be faced by the people of the united kingdom when the single market is no longer in place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need these rules and we need the internal market with high standards to protect human health. i would like to say something that many of my colleagues have said: why has it taken so long? in 2012, there was the pip scandal, no, in 2012, the european commission made this proposal, the scandal was a little earlier. and it took us four and a half years. it's a difficult technical file. that's why you can't negotiate between lunch and dinner. but we as parliament adopted a comprehensive opinion on all the subjects in 12 months, and the council then took another two and a half years - unfortunately, this is also the case for many other subjects. europe does not have to take care of everything, but if we have such problems, the council will have to be a little faster in the future, and we should appeal to the member states together to do so. good legislation comes, but it comes too late. and in other areas too, the council will have to make a little more effort in the near future to solve the problems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the people who have fled to us have experienced terrible things, have travelled thousands of kilometres, and they deserve our respect and our help - nothing more. if we shared this burden, which is also associated with it, it would be easier for everyone. it is no coincidence that not even a caretaker from the council building is here today to debate this. but if we also have to admit that we cannot do this indefinitely, because a society has to endure this, then we have to think seriously about how we can reduce these flows. no wall, no fence, even if we build it symbolically somewhere in africa instead of here, will stop the refugees from coming to us. if we do not help to eliminate the causes of flight, more and more will come to us, and no one will be able to blame them. development cooperation is not only important because we want to create more justice in the world, it is in our own best interests. if we want more people to stop coming because hunger doesn't allow them anything else - poverty, fear of dictatorship and war - then we have to act. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let me say one last thing. we ourselves as a parliament can also make the situation better by ending our poverty-promoting policies. we need to stop subsidizing our exports and ......... do something about poverty and flight. (speaker speaking briefly without a microphone)
i have to say, madam president, the report is supported by the majority of us in the green group. it calls for safe and legal pathways for refugees and for the rights of migrants to be respected. we support criticism of an eu policy that focuses excessively on border protection and returns, as well as criticism of the eu-turkey deal and recent developments in us migration policy. we greens also demand that development policy should not be used as an instrument for direct control of migration. the united nations also called on the eu to meet its obligations to refugees and migrants, for example by creating legal pathways and urgently needed improvements to european asylum law and the asylum system, only in december. the report does mention the instruments for combating the causes of displacement, such as conflict prevention and mediation, but unfortunately they play only a minor role. the countries that most refugees come to us from are afghanistan, iraq, eritrea and now syria. these have remained more or less the same countries for the last 20 years. people flee because war, violence, and oppression threaten their lives. we therefore think that it would have been useful to have put more emphasis on conflict prevention and resolution in this report. i would like to thank the rapporteurs once again for this report, and yes, other eu reports have adopted a different eu policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. italy once had an agreement with libya. this was the case until a ruling by the european court of human rights in 2012, which made the principle of non-refoulement the root of the current migration crisis. meanwhile, italy is picking up refugees off the coast of libya, and the cause of this migration and refugee crisis, namely the monetary incentives that are given by the eu states to these refugees, other countries, such as australia, do not have. the solution to this is to finally legalize illegal entry legal ways for illegal entry. ladies and gentlemen, please be consistent. if you do not want to prevent the illegal passage of refugees, do not allow them to travel legally either, help them on the spot. it's cheaper, it's more effective.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the migration and refugee crisis poses a huge challenge to our continent. it is a challenge which we can only meet together in europe. i would like to mention two points on which the success of this european migration policy will depend in a decisive way: firstly, only if we can tackle the root causes of migration with determination will we succeed in the long term. as the european union, we should contribute to peace in our southern neighbourhood and promote economic development, particularly in africa, by investing in jobs, vocational training and entrepreneurship, particularly in the agricultural sector. secondly, the external borders of our member states are the external borders of the european union in the 21st century. the schengen system must therefore be preserved, deepened and extended. the schengen area must be able to preserve and protect its external borders. the european union's own monitoring instruments are needed, as is a common asylum and migration policy, in order to strike a balance between the fulfilment of humanitarian obligations on the one hand and the reception capacity of the member states on the other. that should be the central message of today's debate. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am happy to accept a question from my scottish compatriot, at least fifty per cent. two points: firstly, angela merkel did not invite hundreds of thousands, millions of people to come to germany, but they did, and germany and other member states of the european union have taken on their humanitarian responsibilities. i would have liked to see this from other countries. and secondly, i like living in a europe without borders. my daughter once asked me, as we were crossing the motorway from germany to the netherlands, what is a border control? we are very fortunate in germany to live in a country surrounded by countries that are in the schengen area. and that is why we must strengthen the schengen area, and that is why i am in favour of european border controls, so that we can have a europe without borders in the future too. you in the united kingdom, and above all your party, do not want that. have fun with it.
i have to say, madam president, a west african fisherman who can no longer earn money at home because european vessels are fishing empty-handed was interviewed on german television. he was not granted asylum, he was sent home as a so-called economic refugee. of course, there are many reasons for migration in africa, including many self-inflicted ones, but it is the eu that is exploiting these countries with its trade agreements. i would remind you that the agriculture of these countries is being forced to supply us with cheap coffee, tea, cocoa and other fruits, and that the customs agreements are preventing them from developing their own mechanical industry. that means that this particular economy cannot get up. the eu is even using funds that were originally intended for development aid to arm countries to forcibly prevent refugees from coming to europe. this is a scandal, and it must be changed.
i have to say, madam president, the report makes no distinction, much too little. there are immigrants. there are immigrants who are needed, and there are immigrants who are not needed. there are immigrants who want to integrate, who don't want to integrate, and fortunately the sovereign state -- england will soon be able to do that -- can choose for itself which immigration into the country it wants and which it doesn't. then there are the refugees. of course there is the geneva convention on refugees, which is not mentioned in the report at all and is much too little debated in this parliament. of course, a fugitive and a person in danger must feel the protection of the community. but the geneva convention on refugees also says that when the danger is over, when the war is over, the refugee must return to his country. so i don't know what these integration courses for refugees are about, and i think open borders means solidarity, they say here, but border surveillance means security.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the number of refugees who have come to us is not a problem. but despite early warning, member states failed to prepare and then claimed to be caught by surprise. and now some want to distract from incompetence, discouragement or simply lack of vision. instead of at least now facing up to their responsibilities, they are defaming refugees, stoking fear and hatred. this is pathetic, because the vast majority of people want only one thing after they have fled, and that is to build a new, secure life for themselves. i hear we'd like to help real refugees. but there is little movement in relocation and resettlement. yes, it would be good if people did not have to flee or at least their numbers would be reduced, and in general, politically and economically stable states are in our interest. but nothing comes by itself. the inclusion of those in need of protection and better prospects in the countries of origin go hand in hand, including a common coherent and sustainable foreign policy with all its different facets. this is important for the refugees and for us, so that the member states of europe can remain free, open, safe and democratic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we talk about asylum and refugee policy, we are talking about a global problem which has been analysed in large parts. we know the problems and we know - if we are quite honest - what needs to be done to solve these problems. it is not a one-dimensional problem, it is a multi-layered problem, which means that we have to work on different levels. one level is definitely help on the ground. we have been calling for this for a long time, and we are just now seeing it again in the current figures mentioned in other drafts of the commission's reports. now it is assumed that if you have a quota for taking in asylum seekers or refugees in the eu, you will have to pay eur 250 000 for not taking in an asylum seeker or refugee whom you do not want to take in. these figures alone show that something is seriously wrong. with that money, we could help an incredible number of people on the ground, and here we are talking about a single migrant coming to europe. we need an honest definition of what the eu can and wants to do. and i think that this joint work on asylum must be based on voluntary action, because otherwise the integration of people will not be possible, and that must be our aim. that is to say, a system where member states commit themselves to certain measures, but then they have to be implemented, otherwise we have only printed paper and nothing will happen.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the draft report contains a great deal of information which is absolutely correct and undisputed. but there is one important ingredient missing, and that is the courage, the courage to leave behind the established ways that we have seen in the eu for a long time. we have seen the brexit vote. why did all this happen? why are the citizens of this eu a little tired? because it is too complex, the eu is not understood. they want a lean, transparent eu. we should deliver them, but it starts with a good budget. and here we have a unique opportunity to say, when we revise the mfr: where do we want to put the emphasis? we always talk about fighting unemployment, about increasing competitiveness - absolutely no doubt about that. the question is: are we increasing competitiveness by redistributing as much money as possible through subsidies? nobody really believes that. we can certainly increase competitiveness. but then we have to make sure that we end the red tape, that we unleash the forces of the market within the framework of social bonds, but otherwise, but not through an ever-growing budget with ever-more money that we're paying out. that's not going to be the answer. we need money to help in solidarity. we need money to tackle the big issues, such as migration policy. we need money for this, but we also need a global approach.
mr president, commissioner oettinger, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am pleased that the revision of the multiannual financial framework has been successfully implemented and that the european parliament has succeeded in achieving this mid-term review for the first time. the european parliament was right to demand this back then. it was already clear in 2013 that the tasks for the eu will increase, and it is not that more and more political tasks could be done with less and less money. it is not true because some finance ministers occasionally say so. if we want to stimulate growth and employment, we need more investment in research and innovation - that's done. if we want to give the unemployed and young people, especially in the south of the european union, a perspective, we must continue the european youth initiative. we have been able to get extra money in, but not enough in my view. if we are to tackle the problems of migration, we must eliminate the causes of flight. now peace in syria is not in our hands, but we can make contributions to help syria's neighbours. it's not just the emergency room. i am thinking of unrwa, the un relief agency for the palestinians. i am thinking of west africa, where security and economic prospects need to be developed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. finally, the scale of the refugee movement to europe has made it necessary to increase efforts in domestic policy considerably. common border protection and additional means of integration were such overriding challenges that even the most ardent finance ministers could not ignore this need. these are just some of the challenges we face today. the european council in bratislava adopted a new agenda for the common security and defence policy. does anyone in this room who understands anything about this matter believe that this agenda could be realized in the corset of today's current financial framework? no, it is clear: the current mff is the cause of chronic underfinancing, so the new mff from 2021 at the latest must change this. it is a matter of new tasks which must mean additional resources - either that or the member states must find the strength to agree on what the eu should no longer do in the future. and this can be done better if the member states start a constructive discussion on the monti group's own resources report and finally give parliament and the european union what we need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. so today we are talking about the adjustment of the eu budget. the eu has spent a lot of money, above all in the migration crisis, and has therefore broken the established framework, and now funds from other budget lines are to be redirected. i note two things. first, the eu budget obviously has billions to be redirected. that means the eu has too much money. we should change that. secondly, the crisis has become very costly because some eu countries have not protected their external borders. if all the illegal immigrants hadn't come, it would have been a lot cheaper. so we need, above all, a law-abiding border guard, and in border guarding we should then help the non-eu countries, also help with money, also help with eu money. but first of all, we find out: there are billions that can be redirected. so there are too many billions in this budget. they need to be painted.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, dear colleagues, last week we officially received the letter. it took nine months to write a letter of six pages, but finally, we received the letter. today is the day at the european parliament and today’s signal is that we are ready, we can start and, hopefully, after the vote we can say we are united and we stay together in these negotiations. first of all, i would like to thank guy verhofstadt for his work in preparing our resolution. the message is clear on the procedure: first, divorce and, second, the future treaty. then we underline what should be the atmosphere in the negotiations; we want to have a fair, constructive atmosphere built on trust. then we have defined our priorities regarding citizenship: do not play with the legal uncertainty of citizens. we are underlining that, for us, the northern ireland question is a decisive one: avoid a hard border in ireland. then we have to talk about money. the top priorities are defined. finally, we hope that london respects that the eu27 will continue. the rome declaration is clear and we have to talk about the future in our union. the point is, from our point of view, a decisive difference. it is a very fundamental question: what does leave mean? what does it mean to leave the european union? for example, on the question of security, i heard last week that theresa may said that they want to stay in europol. europol is a european agency – it is the european union who is organising europol – but they want to stay. so does leave mean no further access to europol and to the schengen information system, or does leave mean to stay in them? then we talk about the research union. cambridge, edinburgh, paris and milan are working closely together. so does this mean that with leave there will be no further cooperation, because at the moment the european union is financing this? then there is the single market. trade is positive. does leave mean no more access to the single market? does leave mean no more cooperation? i feel that london thinks they will find the perfect deal, and that means they take the positive points and they leave the negative points. i have to clarify that this will not happen. cherry-picking will not happen. a state outside the european union cannot have the same, or better, conditions than a state inside this european union. liebe kolleginnen und kollegen! was machen wir hier eigentlich? beispielsweise nordirland: dort haben wir jetzt viele sorgen von den kollegen, die aus belfast zu uns kommen, die äußern, dass der friedensprozess unter druck steht, dass wir eventuell rückschritte machen. oder gibraltar: da kann man darüber lachen, dass es in den letzten tagen diskussionen über möglichen krieg gab. aber tatsächlich hatte die premierministerin eines großen landes, nämlich großbritanniens, die notwendigkeit gesehen klarzustellen, dass es keine militärischen aktivitäten gab. wo sind wir denn gelandet? über was reden wir eigentlich? ich muss mal sagen: sind wir eigentlich noch ganz bei trost? wir müssten eigentlich über digitalisierung, über die sicherheitsfragen unseres kontinents reden und nicht über debatten der letzten jahrzehnte. das zeigt uns, dass wir in die vollkommen falsche richtung diskutieren, die uns leider gottes von den nationalisten und populisten aufgedrückt wird. und ich möchte den spaniern und auch den iren zurufen, dass sie dieses mal eine andere lage haben. sie werden nämlich nicht ihre interessen als iren beispielsweise allein gegen london durchsetzen können. oder auch die spanier werden sich darauf verlassen können, dass sie nicht alleine stehen in der debatte gegenüber london, wenn es um gibraltar geht. wir werden die große chance haben, dass die eu-27 deutlich macht, dass wir eine große familie sind und zusammenhalten, dass die irischen interessen nicht nur irische, sondern europäische interessen sind und dass die spanischen interessen europäische interessen sind. und zu guter letzt: austritt aus der europäischen union. theresa may formulierte: „es ist kein austritt aus europa.“ das mag für menschen gelten, in der beziehung zwischen menschen mag das gelten. wir bleiben freunde, das ist vollkommen klar. aber die idee der europäischen union ist eine idee des miteinanders. großbritannien wird zukünftig nicht mehr am tisch sitzen, wenn die außenminister über syrien beraten. sie werden nicht mehr am tisch sitzen, wenn wir über die ukraine beraten. das heißt: natürlich tritt großbritannien aus der politischen idee europas aus, und das ist das, was leider gottes sehr, sehr negativ ist. positiv ist, dass wir am ende des tages partner und freunde bleiben. aber in den verhandlungen muss sich großbritannien auf eine harte verhandlungsposition der europäischen union vorbereiten. (beifall von der eigenen fraktion)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european parliament has been a key player in the debate on the future of the european union. last week article 50 was triggered, and it is clear that the divorce between the uk and the eu is being consummated. the time for the combatants to show each other their tools and weapons is over. the time for irresponsible demagogy, especially by mr farage and others, is over. now we have to negotiate hard. the time has come for those who do have to deal with each other in a clear, reasoned, fair and respectful way to find solutions that will make it possible for the united kingdom and the european union to work together. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. it's all areas. the time to negotiate this far in 15 months is extremely short - we all know that. so it requires that we as a parliament not only be involved today, not only at the end, when it comes to the act of separation, but that we also be able to agree on the interim evaluations here in parliament, that at the moment when it is said: 'phase two is being triggered', we are also asked here as a parliament. what is important to us? we believe that the rights of the people, the citizens, the citizens of the european union, and of the 28 countries that have been here so far, must be at the forefront. it is important to us that the rights of uk citizens, of uk citizens in the eu, of eu citizens in the uk, who are already over 4 million in total, plus the rights of the 1.8 million people who live in northern ireland, are protected. and we all know very well that it's not just the people directly affected, but that there are implications for the behaviour, for the way people interact in important regions of the european union. we welcome the fact that the joint proposal firmly anchors the good friday agreement to northern ireland and looks at it as a whole. the european union has always been an active contributor and guarantor to the operation of the good friday agreement, and for that reason alone we should commit ourselves here to considering at all times the interests of the people of the island of ireland as a whole and not to allow a new frontier to be created in the european union in the 21st century. i also want no border in my country again, never again a border and a wall that is impenetrable. (applause from the centre) what are we worried about? we want to see that the fundamental rights, the social rights, that is to say, in practice, the dignity of the human person, are always at the forefront of these negotiations. that must be our common goal and our common anchor, and i say to you: the way we negotiate with each other will also determine the future of the european union. and we must also ask ourselves why demagogues like mr farage have managed to turn a mood in britain in such a way that this result has finally come out. these were not just the national problems within the uk or the tories, these are also the problems we have within the eu that we have not solved. so where does our social union stand? what about job security? where is the social security, the social pillar? where is our promise of more democracy? that's what we have to signal to the people. let's fight this fight together. we must also find a common solution in the end - in the interests of all citizens, of all people, and i include migrants as a whole. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i must remind myself at this moment that i was in london in 1975 at a demonstration for britain to remain in the european union - in a britain that was economically and politically torn apart by strikes, industrial decline. we are debating today a united kingdom that has been restored to strength by membership of the european union. and in that demonstration there was a mrs thatcher, who was and always has been a champion of british membership and who made the single market possible, who also made the maastricht treaty possible in the tory government. i must say, mr farage, that all the treaties have since been ratified by the british house of commons and are therefore fully legitimated. the europe of today has the legitimacy of britain too! i think we should put that on record. we want constructive negotiations, fair negotiations, not revenge, in our common interest. but it must also be clear that those who do not want to bear the burdens of the eu, the single market or the customs union cannot save their benefits by a trade agreement. it is therefore clear that you do not have the same opportunities in the single market or elsewhere as if you were a member. that's the fair way to behave. and i think that's why we can't see that we should allow for threat scenarios. you'll follow us on the divorce settlement and the free trade agreement, in exchange for your safety. the security of europe against terrorism london should know that , against terrorism, against external attacks is in the british interest, this is in the common interest, this cannot be taken into account. i think that this will also be understood in the united kingdom. that's why this isn't a threat, it's a misunderstanding. and you must know that this european parliament must approve the divorce treaty. we'll keep an eye on the terms. it will have to agree to a transitional arrangement, and it will have to agree to the final outcome. that is why i think it is good to stand with the european parliament and that we are here fighting for your country and for all of us as the eu of 27 to secure the rights of citizens - the rights of citizens in northern ireland and the republic of ireland - throughout the european union. we do not want the rhetoric of war, as happened with gibraltar again, but we want to defend a europe which has brought 70 years of peace, even at this hour! that is why great britain, a great country, is invited to participate in this cause of peace and freedom. and please don't make the kind of speeches we sometimes hear here. we will shape our future together, and not through this nationalist form of discussion of the past.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i don't have to say much. brexit is annoying. i think he's a mistake in the end. but now it's just a matter of doing it properly, doing it fairly, doing the job cleanly. i think that what the commission has said, what president juncker has said and what michel barnier has said is absolutely correct. now you have to work properly, step by step, and produce good results. on the other hand, such a difficult situation is always an opportunity, an opportunity for the remaining 27. maybe we should talk about this more often. it is a chance to rely on each other a little more, to trust each other more, to become a little more reliable and to defend the common project more aggressively, to focus on the essential and to ensure that the european project arouses enthusiasm among people again. it is perhaps no coincidence that people are taking to the streets everywhere these days to express their support for europe. we must seize this opportunity. to do that, we need good results, proper work, trustworthiness amongst ourselves and proof that we are capable of solving the problems, the concerns. we must show that the problems that people are worried about can be solved by us, by the politicians who sit here in the european parliament. and then this will all be over. and if we can prove that there is an opportunity for jobs and prosperity in europe, if we can maybe do more to develop economic innovation, economic strength, and not just talk about how to balance each other's difficulties and weaknesses, but to look forward, i think that can be a great opportunity, even if brexit is a big mistake in the end.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr barnier, you mentioned in your statement that the clarification of the financial relations between the eu and the united kingdom is about clearing the accounts and not about a penalty, and you are absolutely right. the united kingdom has not bought into a company from which it is now withdrawing its capital, but has invested for a time in a political alliance for which it has received political and economic benefits and services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to put it figuratively, even in an english pub you cannot have a good evening, eat and drink well and just leave before the bill comes. this applies to the medium-term financial framework signed by the united kingdom , to the existing commitment appropriations from the current eu budgets all of which the united kingdom has agreed to , and to the pension costs of european officials many of whom are from the united kingdom whose work has also benefited the united kingdom during the period of membership.
i have to say, madam president, a majority in the united kingdom has decided to leave the european union. and that has consequences: almost three million eu citizens live in the uk today. they live, they love, they work, they get married, they pay taxes, they raise their children and their future? not sure at all. so are more than 1.5 million britons in the eu: still union citizens today with all the rights that go with it, but what happens in the future, what happens two years from now, after the actual exit? conservative david cameron will go down in history as a man who valued short-term populist successes over the fate of all those people. and a note to ukip: you are not taking back your country. you are trying to destroy this continent, and you don't care how much your citizens and our citizens will suffer from it. but listen carefully: we will not let you succeed. we will continue to fight for a europe based on solidarity and justice, a europe where facts expose the lies, a europe which protects its citizens and does not leave them with the prospect of an uncertain and gloomy future. and i hope that one day the uk will become a real, full member of this european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european parliament - and this has been demonstrated today - has a great responsibility for monitoring the negotiation process, and i took note with great interest of the fact that we were told that we would not only talk to each other today and at the end of the negotiations, but that we would also be given the opportunity to speak to each other, to inform ourselves, to express our views and to exercise political influence. i think this is important because the main thing we are doing - and these are the criteria my group will also apply - is to ensure that the rights of people directly affected by brexit are respected. we will also be looking at how the security of the people, particularly in northern ireland, is safeguarded as a result of the negotiation process. the people must not pay the price for brexit. you didn't bring it up, but there were other reasons. so they shouldn't pay him, and we'll make sure of that. let us work together here so that we as a parliament can really have an influence here.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this was a good-sounding debate today, and i hope that many citizens have followed the debate because they have seen that the major groups, the european groups, have taken a factual, constructive tone and, unfortunately, have brought the populists and extremists we have in this house back into focus. it was quoted that there must be a fight in the streets and that independence must be defended. it was a hard, aggressive tone. here is the objectivity, there is the aggressiveness. i hope that many citizens have seen this in the debate. i didn't get any answers, by the way. i asked whether we wanted to continue to be part of europol, whether we wanted to continue to be part of the internal market, whether we wanted to continue to be part of the research union. mr. farage has not yet responded to questions about whether these partnerships are still right or not. this means that the fundamental question of what leave really means remains on the table. i would like to make one final point, ladies and gentlemen. if we look at the council, we have the situation that when the heads of state and government are talking about brexit, theresa may is not present because that is one of the things that the eu-27 has to negotiate. that means theresa may treats the other 27 countries with respect. if we look at the parliamentary situation, we have westminster, which has to vote at the end, and that's where the british interests are represented, and we have the european parliament, which has to vote, and that's where the interests of the eu-27 are represented. and that's why i'm naturally interested in how nigel farage sees the next two years. i would respectfully acknowledge that syed kamall did not speak today on behalf of his group. he gave the floor to non-british colleagues to make the group's positions clear. i would like to see nigel farage be a man of honour in the future and allow his italian colleagues to speak in his group's debates on brexit. nigel farage has been telling us for the last few years how good it is that the british are finally leaving the european union. i would like to see him set a good example and then stop burdening the debates in the european parliament. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
in writing. i regret the uk's decision, but i also accept it. if you no longer want to be part of a community, you will have to bear the consequences of this decision: the uk will retain its rights as an eu member until it leaves, but at the same time it will have to fulfil existing obligations. this also applies to financial commitments arising, inter alia, from the long-term eu budget. and it is clear: those who choose to oppose the eu can no longer benefit from our achievements and advantages. you're either part of something or you're not.
we shall now proceed to the voting.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. perhaps just a brief clarification of how this vote will be conducted. we have to be very careful about the way we vote. but now ukip has tabled a motion to reject it, not even the efdd as a whole. and i have to say i am almost grateful, because that gives us, on this day, when we also discussed brexit, the chance once again to show how united this house is against the ideas of ukip. we are deciding something for the internal market that protects patients in the best possible way throughout europe. i thank all those who have helped us to get to this point - the council, the commission, glenis willmott, of course, but especially the staff who have worked far beyond the normal level to get us to this point. so, rejecting the amendment is supporting the result.
mr rübig, i have to ask you a question. i am of the opinion that the application is admissible. the first paragraph is adopted. we have accepted all four parts so far. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the green group's amendment no 1 was rejected, and so we have moved on to motion no 9, motion no 17 and then the original text. and so we've accepted the first four parts, and now we're coming to the fifth part. i shall now put this to the vote.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am not going to go into detail. the time we have now saved by a rapid vote, i ask you to honour by leaving the chamber quickly if you do not wish to hear the explanations of vote and, above all, by not standing in the corridors to talk. i shall take the liberty of asking individual colleagues to put an end to such discussions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much regret the uk leaving the european union, and i think that's not a good story for the european union, and it's not a good story for the uk. secondly, we are of course guaranteeing each other a fair democratic procedure. you might say that both have now become adult institutions. thirdly, i would like to emphasize that the european union is a serious matter and not an intellectual literary circus. there are rights and there are duties. first of all, as long as the united kingdom remains a member of the european union - even during the divorce - it will of course have all the rights, but it will also have to fulfil all the obligations of the european union. but it also means that if the united kingdom leaves, it will have no obligations, but no rights either. and fourthly, i am pleased with the resolutions adopted today by a large majority, because they give us the strength to conduct this procedure in the interests of both parties.
the explanations of vote are closed.
vice-president of the commission. – fake news or simply lies are also a serious problem. we are aware of the need to protect freedom of speech and to trust people’s common sense, but we also need to be aware of the possible negative effects of this phenomenon. promoting media literacy is vital, as is the need for quality journalism. all journalists’ codes of conduct include accuracy as one of their main requirements. self-regulation and ethical standards play a very important role here. social media platforms and users are acting to expose fake news and unmask the source. i also see global brands and media organisations deciding to move advertising money only to sites that are known to be free from harmful content. i welcome private sector initiatives to cut commercial funding of fake news sites. last november, first vice-president frans timmermans, together with commissioners oettinger and jourová, organised the european commission’s annual colloquium on fundamental rights. this focused on media pluralism and democracy. it identified two main routes: ethical standards among those producing media, and media literacy among those using it. lastly, the eu external action service has set up a taskforce on strategic communication to promote eu policies and a healthy media environment in the eastern partnership region. its key task is to improve the eu’s capacity to forecast, address and respond to disinformation activities by external parties. preventing the damaging effects of fake news is a challenge for all society. it means that industry, civil society, academia and lawmakers need to continue their discussions on this problem so that we can better understand it and identify possible policy responses.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in normal reality, this leads to a prosecutorial investigation, it then leads to a trial, and then to a conviction. what is true in the real world must also be true in the digital world. there must be no legal space in the digital world that allows people to hate speech against others, to cause endless suffering, to marginalize people, to bully or persecute people for all sorts of arbitrary reasons and then to enjoy themselves without being held accountable, to be able to anonymize themselves, without prosecutors and judges even having the possibility of having access to the person committing hate speech or a similar crime. it is therefore imperative that legal arrangements be put in place. moreover, commissioner, i am very pleased with your speech. it is very important for me that the social bots are stopped. it can't be that it's done as if hundreds of thousands of people are sharing a message and wanting it, and in reality there's a program behind it, a machine that's only sent by one or ten people. we have to protect ourselves from this kind of -- what is it now called -- alternative facts -- there are no alternative facts, there are only facts, and there is freedom of speech, but facts do not have alternatives. there are facts; for example, if it is claimed that a 13-year-old girl allegedly named lisa was abducted and raped by refugees, who are being displaced worldwide, and it is not in fact true, then this is seriously dangerous for a mood within the population. it is therefore imperative that eu-wide legal arrangements are also put in place to be able to respond effectively.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. yes, it's true: incitement, populism and fake news are on the rise on social media. fake news aims to influence elections, countries and organizations, and ultimately destabilize democracy. on the other hand, a real regulatory frenzy is currently developing in the fight against this, producing increasingly absurd proposals from clear name obligations on the net to network blocks. it is naive to think that we can simply regulate this matter better and the problem will disappear. the main measures to combat filter bubbles are greater media literacy, independent monitoring, and the use of transparent commentary and discourse moderation on the net. one fact remains: the roots of racism, populism and its informational lies, hate speech and social bots lie not on the internet, but in society. it is the social climate that we must change.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. fake news has always existed, but its scale has increased significantly. hate comments on the internet have also increased significantly and have reached a level that cannot be tolerated. so it's no wonder that with all the really positive developments through social networks, we're now increasingly talking about antisocial networks. echo chambers on the net mean that we are always reinforced in our own opinions and too little perceive and consider other views. but that's the essence of an open democratic society, to be open to different opinions. i would like to emphasize this again. this is not a ministry of truth, but illegal content such as incitement to hatred and violence and group-specific hostility to human beings is not covered by freedom of expression. and in cases of already established illegality, it must be deleted immediately and in obvious cases within 24 hours. and this is where many companies, especially twitter and facebook, are still doing far too little, and where more political pressure needs to be put. but private companies cannot be the ones to replace the courts, but the final decision on the deletion must be made by the courts. but overall, we need to strengthen media literacy and we need a public debate on the future of quality journalism, and i also believe that we need a european public service broadcaster, and we need to have this debate now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the council representative dropped his pants in his last sentence today. and i didn't like what i heard at all, but it was predictable. what's this all about? he said it clearly: it's the limits of freedom of speech - literally, he said it. that's what hate speech is all about. because freedom of speech ends at the penal code. and it's not like some things aren't already forbidden. there's the insult, and there's many, many other things that are forbidden in germany and elsewhere. but political opinion-making in the sense of a ministry of truth - we certainly don't need that under that label. and speaking of fake news: well, it's the job of politics to argue about truths, but it's not their job to vote for objective truths. the council representative said something very nice there too: it is particularly important to combat the lies of politicians before elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, almost any female politician will have experienced hate speech on her social media accounts. it is a widespread phenomenon that did not start with the internet. it is important not to forget that the core of the problem is not social media, it is sexism and racism. according to council of europe data only 15% of hate speech messages actually qualify as illegal. then why do certain member states think we can fix this problem? we are simply getting facebook and twitter to install a content filter. no technology is qualified to make the difficult decisions needed to define hate speech. by relying solely on technology we are not helping the victims and we are silencing free speech if we try to turn private companies into enforcers of laws that often do not even exist in the first place. instead, we need to address the terrible experiences that many women have when they actually try to report sexist hate speech to the police. we need to invest in training for law enforcement, in easier reporting of crimes and in supporting grassroots initiatives countering hate speech. if we try to solve one problem with blunt and ineffective technological tools we will end up creating more problems.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the new media was seen as something that gave the citizen, the individual, more opportunities to express themselves, which the new media was really just the platform for. today, we see that these are increasingly becoming instruments of manipulation by wealthy groups of private individuals and by states under the protection of privacy and freedom of expression. and this, i think, needs to be pulled apart. we must not, under any circumstances, restrict personal freedom of expression by a ministry of truth or anything like that. but we must not give up on giving states and powerful groups the opportunity to become presidents or to influence other countries. and for that reason, we must make it clear that there are limits to manipulation. and this has to be done in a legal way. this must be done by strengthening the traditional media. if we destroy the pay protection system, which we will be discussing and voting on in this house later, ordinary journalists will have no income, newspaper publishers will be bankrupt, no one will be able to clearly say what is true and what is untrue. and they're going to leave it to this conglomerate of manipulation. that means it's connected to other things. you can see the issues that have to do with media education, that have to do with distinguishing between the true and the false. the guardian's dictum is: "comment is free, but facts are sacred". i think that this principle of the guardian no longer applies to the media world as a whole, and colleagues from the side have spread their conspiracy theories in the debate itself.
i have to say, madam president, indeed, the culture of debate on the internet is sometimes aggressive, hurtful and often hateful and threatening, and this is not socially acceptable. the question is, however, whether we can and must take governmental action against this. and i think that would be a very wrong way to go. after all, who wants to define rules in advance that are to be obeyed later? there will be a huge variety of cases, and we will find in practice that this is not feasible at all. it's a fight on the one hand for free speech against things that are socially unacceptable. but i trust society to heal itself. we need better education here, especially for the younger generation, so that they learn how to deal with this kind of media, so that they learn what fact-checking is. and populism is even harder to catch. for example, if someone says: 'if the euro fails, then europe fails', i think that is populism. but there are a lot of people in this house who don't see it that way.
i have to say, madam president, fake news is a sin. misinformation is the greatest damage the media can do, because it steers opinion in the wrong direction. that's a quote from pope francis. disinformation can break even a powerful country. we would do well to tackle this phenomenon of our digital world together and in unity. germany is one of the countries facing a major and important choice of direction this year. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of article 100a of the treaty on european union. so, for me, this means that fake news has the power to destroy values, to kill lives. we must oppose it. the fight against hate speech must not lead to the erosion of freedom of expression. for example, for the amadeu antonio foundation, hate speech starts with the "we" and "you" categories. the use of male and female as natural categories and bad satire. so let's be careful about how we evaluate hate speech. some things do not have to be forbidden, some things simply have to be faced decisively in direct dialogue.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for all the efforts you have put in this important file. very soon, ukrainian citizens holding a biometric passport will be able to travel to the schengen area for short stays of up to 90 days without a visa, and i am very pleased that we are nearing this important moment for ukraine and its citizens, for its neighbourhood and for the european union. we are seeing the results of the hard work of the ukrainian authorities over the past three years. it has been a long process, but we are reaching the end. already in december 2015, the commission confirmed that ukraine had implemented all the benchmarks set out in its visa liberalisation action plan. following this positive assessment and taking into account the overall eu-ukraine relations, we proposed in early 2016 to lift the visa requirement for ukrainian citizens holding a biometric passport. i am very pleased that we can now finally conclude this process. in parallel, the revised visa suspension mechanism just entered into force at the end of last month. the visa suspension mechanism will be an important tool to further enhance security for the eu but also to strengthen our visa liberalisation policy. under the new mechanism, the commission will monitor the continuous fulfilment by ukraine and all visa-free countries of the visa liberalisation criteria, especially in the fight against organised crime and corruption. honourable members, we are almost there. visa liberalisation for ukraine will be an essential contribution to strengthening cultural and economic ties between ukraine and the eu for the eastern partnership and our neighbourhood in general. in times of rising nationalism and xenophobia, insular and exclusive thinking, this will be another signal that the eu remains open and connected to this, its neighbourhood. dear members of the european parliament, i call on you to demonstrate this openness and support the proposal on the table during the votes.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is not i am speaking today as the european parliament's permanent rapporteur on ukraine. i have taken over this task from our colleague mr saryusz-wolski, who was the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs on this report. i thank him for his work so far and i am sure he will share my views. we congratulate ukraine today. the european parliament's decision will free ukrainian citizens from the visa requirement. at the same time, we are strengthening the european union's link with that country. the abolition of the visa requirement was made possible by the work of the ukrainian government and the verkhovna rada. they have met important technical requirements. they also have the political will to modernise their country democratically and under the rule of law, that is to say, in this context, to apply an efficient take-back mechanism. but i am also critical of our own address today: we as the eu have delayed this decision for far too long. the commissioner said that in december 2015, the country was already at that stage. the ukrainians deserved a much earlier decision. because we also have to see: this important reform agenda is being steered by ukraine, which is at war and occupies parts of the country - crimea, donetsk and luhansk. the russian president does not credit ukraine with these successes. i therefore say to those responsible in ukraine: you must safeguard the progress made, even after the visa requirement has been abolished. i am therefore concerned about recent attempts to make the work of anti-corruption activists more difficult. traveling in the eu without expensive visas and time-consuming procedures will bring ukrainians and eu citizens closer together. the ukrainian passport will now be one of the first-class documents in europe. unlike documents issued by russian occupation authorities, it opens all doors. this message should also be heard in the donbass basin. ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! do you remember? twelve years have passed since president yushchenko lifted the visa requirement for eu citizens in ukraine. the occasion was the final of the eurovision song contest in kiev in early may 2005. i am delighted that in a few weeks, from 9 to 13 may, ukraine will again be hosting such a joyful and peaceful celebration for all europeans.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not more than 1.3 million ukrainian citizens obtained a visa for the schengen area last year. ukrainians visiting their families in europe, tourists, business travellers or trainees. these and all the citizens of the country will benefit in the future if we give the green light to visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens tomorrow. from this summer, visas are exempt for stays of up to 90 days if you have a biometric passport. this facilitates civil society contacts, reduces bureaucracy and is also good for the economy both in ukraine and in the eu. in addition to all these practical advantages, i believe that the decision also has a high symbolic value for ukraine and the european union. it is a recognition of the reform efforts in the country. the commission has already established at the end of 2015 that ukraine fulfilled all the criteria necessary for visa waiver. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. we are opening the door to europe a whole lot further. (the speaker declined to answer a question from mr rübig under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not so we are now talking about visa-free entry for ukrainian citizens into the european union. ukraine, unlike poland or the baltic states, has not implemented democratic or rule of law reforms. ukraine is about as economically free as ghana or burkina faso. the eurozone's poorhouse, greece, has a per capita economic output five times that of ukraine. there's a civil war in the country. the president is a billionaire oligarch, his letterbox companies have now gone public with the panama papers. and he's not on good terms with journalists. he prefers not to let them in, especially those who want to report on corruption. they are then required to disclose their assets, so they are particularly harassed. the fact that the netherlands rejected the association agreement with ukraine does not seem to interest anyone here, it is simply ignored. the eu wants to bind ukraine more and more to itself and - as has already been said here - to get into the eu in the end, even if there is the opposition of the netherlands, for example. and this is done step by step salam tactics , with money and with visa-free travel. the european court of auditors has found that billions of dollars are being sent to ukraine, but we do not know where. you just don't know. the money is gone. but again, nobody is bothered by this, even though this country - and this has been said many times - could become a world champion in one discipline: corruption. the question is: what is your measure of visa-free travel? (the speaker declined to answer a question from mr gahler under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
member of the commission. – mr president, let me first of all thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today and to update you on the state of implementation of the privacy shield and our plans for the upcoming first annual review. today’s discussion is very timely, as i have just returned from washington and can inform you of the latest state of play. as you rightly note in the motion for today’s resolution, the privacy shield has attracted a lot of interest, with more than 1 900 companies that have been certified under this framework. this shows the importance of the instrument for our trans-atlantic relationship. it also means that an increasing volume of the personal data that is transferred across the atlantic benefits from the many protections that the privacy shield offers for individuals. i know that some of you had hoped for more, and i too would one day like to see a fully fledged comprehensive data protection law in the united states, but in the meantime, our assessment is that the privacy issue of framework lives up to the requirements of our data protection laws, as interpreted by our highest court. our highest court has clarified: adequacy does not mean that the rules in the third country have to be an exact photocopy of our rules. rather, what the commission has to assess is if that third country offers in law and practice an essentially equivalent level of protection to that guaranteed in the eu legal order. clearly the privacy shield is a substantial improvement when compared to the old safe harbour. this is the view of our data protection authorities, and i am glad to see that your motion contains the same clear statement. however, putting in place the privacy shield framework, the privacy principles, together with the commitments and assurances by the united states’ government, was only part of the work. it is equally important that these rules also fully apply in practice. this is why our focus since the adoption of the decision has been on the effective implementation of this new framework. this involves several actors, and i am happy to report that our data protection authorities and the united states authorities have cooperated closely in working out procedures to ensure a robust oversight and enforcement of these new rules. representatives from the ombudsperson’s office as well as the federal trade commission and department of commerce have come to brussels on several occasions to discuss with the commission and the article 29 working party the details of this cooperation, and to report on their implementation work. during my visit to washington last week, i put a particular emphasis on some of the key foundations on which the privacy shield is built. this concerns in particular the limitations and safeguards that apply in the area of government access for national security purposes. a central element of this is presidential policy directive number 28, which specifically addresses the privacy protections afforded to foreigners. another key element is the ombudsperson mechanism, which ensures that europeans have a possibility to obtain an individual review if they believe that intelligence authorities have broken the law when accessing their personal data. a third one is the privacy and civil liberties oversight board. for the sustainability of the privacy shield it is essential that these elements are part of it. we will closely monitor any relevant developments in the united states with a possible impact on the privacy shield, including the upcoming debates around a possible reform or prolongation of section 702 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act, which expires at the end of this year. this is the message we have been sending since the start of the new administration. i have repeated this message during my recent visit to washington and my meetings with the white house, the commerce secretary, the attorney general state department as well as congress, and i received assurances that this message is well understood by our us counterparts, both as to the value of the privacy shield and the need to keep all of its elements in place. let me make this point very clear: if we are faced with any developments that could negatively affect the level of protection afforded under the privacy shield, the commission will take its responsibilities and use all available mechanisms, be it review, suspension, revocation or repeal, to promptly react. my focus is now on the first annual joint review. this will be a crucial moment: a moment of truth where we take stock of how the privacy shield functions in practice and to see whether there are things that need to be improved. i have agreed with the us commerce secretary wilbur ross that the first annual joint review meeting will take place in washington in september. all the various elements that are relevant for the functioning of the eu-us privacy shield will be covered by this review, inter alia: first, how us companies comply with their data protection obligations and the mechanisms they have put in place to ensure a speedy handling of complaints. second, how the department of commerce and federal trade committee certify companies, monitor compliance and cooperate with our data protection authorities in the enforcement. third, the operation of the rules regarding access by public authorities and the rules and procedures to ensure that the ombudsperson mechanism functions well. fourth, in addition, in the issues identified already in the commission’s adequacy decision, such as the dialogue on automated decision-making, as well as any developments in the united states law that might raise questions concerning the eu-us privacy shield and its operation, will have to be discussed. as partners in this review, we will of course discuss the precise parameters of the review with the article 29 working party. the input from business and from civil society will also be of crucial importance. i met both sides in washington, and they are committed to contribute. on the us side, we expect the joint review to involve the department of commerce and the federal trade commission, but also the ombudsperson and representatives from the intelligence community. directly after the joint review we will report our findings to you and to the member states in the council. this will allow you and us to assess and discuss where we are on this and also discuss the next necessary steps. honourable members, thank you again for giving me the opportunity to speak to you today, and of course i stand ready to address any questions you might have.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is important that we give our companies, smes and startups, etc., legal certainty, also provide a concrete legal basis for transatlantic data exchange while safeguarding data protection. and i think the privacy shield brings those two together. the commission has achieved a great deal in all these years, in recent times, on the one hand in terms of data protection and on the other hand also in terms of the privacy shield. we will never get the 100% that the other groups in this house have always wanted, but there is no reason to speak so negatively about this privacy shield at the moment. we have already adopted a resolution on the free movement of data in this parliament in june 2016, where we also give a positive assessment of the privacy shield. but now there is no reason, even in the meantime, for it to have been running since june or july last year, and now we have to wait until the new report comes in september, and then there might have been a reason to evaluate it. we have not had the practical experience we can now evaluate, and theoretically we simply cannot get through this. they have all highlighted the positive elements, and compared to the safe harbor agreement, this is a huge step forward which we cannot expect to have in itself. in particular, you have achieved more than we are prepared to give in our own member states, and that is good. this interface to national security will always be difficult to navigate, but i believe that these transatlantic data streams ultimately benefit both sides, and it's also an indispensable opportunity for both sides to move forward on this path.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. that's exactly what it is. no, we can't make peace with the privacy shield. we also think that this is not an appropriate response to the schrems ruling and the safe harbor agreement that was brought down, because it does not provide equal data protection for everyone, because mass surveillance for law enforcement purposes is still going to be done in a blanket way and elsewhere, because huge amounts of data - as we all know - are still happily being delivered door-to-door without judicial authorization to 16 us authorities, because the ombudsman appointed by the us state department is a coward, as we all know, because many us organizations that participate in the privacy shield do not even want to have a data protection authority, and because us president trump has signed a decree that wants to exclude non-us citizens from data protection. anybody who talks about shields is a dreamer. the privacy shield we are talking about here is an open door to arbitrariness at the expense of fundamental rights. and it could get a lot worse, because the fact is that the u.s. senate and the u.s. house of representatives have effectively overturned a ban, that the fcc's ban on telecommunications has effectively overturned a ban, allowing isps to collect and sell private data from their customers without their consent. there you go. if donald trump still agrees, then the us privacy policy is fun that's how i put it. we therefore fully share the critical view of the resolution on all points, because the problems have not been solved in any way.
i have to say, madam president, it was only after the european court of justice ruled the safe harbour scheme void that the commission moved to create better rules on data transfer to the us. but despite some progress, the overall result does not convince me. it is still difficult to defend oneself legally against the misuse of one's data. the ombudsman in the us is not independent enough. uscompanies are not obliged to delete personal data when it is no longer needed. the biggest problem, however, is that the new privacy shield does not rule out mass surveillance either. however, the european court of justice, in its ruling overturning the predecessor 'safe harbour', made it clear that general access to electronic communications content violates the essence, the core of the fundamental right to respect for private life. we're about to begin the first review of the privacy shield. it is important for us social democrats that the criticisms mentioned be given sufficient attention and that legal certainty be created. parliament cannot suspend the privacy shield, but the commission can if the shortcomings in the protection of fundamental rights are too great. i very much regret that the conservatives in the home affairs committee did not want to support our jointly negotiated resolution. they seem to prefer quick, sham solutions for businesses to sustainable, fundamental rights-friendly approaches that also offer more legal protection for the companies concerned. i therefore hope that we shall find a majority in favour of this resolution in the plenary. we can send a signal to the commission. the european parliament will be very critical of the way the privacy shield works in practice. if the review reveals that the privacy shield is not in line with the eu charter of fundamental rights and the new eu data protection rules, the commission must suspend it. otherwise, it risks the embarrassment of having this protection shield fail again before the european court of justice.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank mr vajgl for his good report, even if we cannot vote on it today. we cannot vote, although he, eduard kukan and my predecessor richard howitt have made every effort to find a solution with the parties to end the crisis in macedonia. and that solution was democratic elections, which are subsequently recognized. and these elections took place, and they took place in an environment that you could say, "the work paid off". but the work has not been worthwhile if democracy only works if each party wins. so i say very clearly: the result is clear, 67 mps have formed a coalition, and we expect those who have been voted out to leave their offices, do proper opposition work and maybe come back in four years when this government that comes into office now has done a bad job. but what you can't do is take an entire country hostage just because your own power claims are just the way they are. and there is no need to talk about it in a noble way, but to say quite clearly: if you continue in this way, the road to europe will be closed at some point. there can be no recommendation for any form of negotiation if the largest party in a country believes that democracy only works if it wins. and let me say one more thing: the people on the street who are afraid of losing their identity in their country, you have to take them seriously, you have to talk to them. that's also the job of the 67 to take away their fear. the albanian platform, if you read it carefully, is not difficult. the fact that it was formally adopted in tirana is of little help and should be known by now by all the parties involved, including the prime minister of albania.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i cannot understand how in the 21st century there can be such a dispute over the name of a country which it shares with a neighbouring region of another country. but a closer look at the region's centuries-old, almost millennial history makes it clear. however, a name dispute must not lead to a blockade. i would also like to thank the commission for its work on the reform of the cap. i acknowledge the achievements in the implementation of the common acquis. i have great respect for what this small country has done to close the balkan route. i regret that this does not receive the grateful support of the eu more clearly. but i also see the current problems in the country and i link this to a clear appeal to the epp and s&d in this house: it is your member parties that are currently blocking stable development through their crooked behaviour. it is also up to mr weber and mr pittella to make a difference. then the efforts of the citizens of macedonia can be rewarded. then it is time to give a thumbs up for the accession negotiations. we'll have plenty of room in the house soon.
madam president, regarding the 61st session of the un, i would just concentrate on a few points. the committee on women’s rights and gender equality criticised the us government for how it spends its money on foreign aid and the new conditions it puts on its aid. the us is a sovereign country and only accountable to its own citizens. we, as the eu, also do not want to be criticised by others when we put conditions on the aid we give. i think the eu should rather attend to the aid it gives itself. the 79 acp countries that welcome eu aid sometimes find the conditions we ask on our aid to be socially oppressive. we are in no position to criticise the foreign-aid practices of other countries. according to the un regulations and regarding the wording, i think the committee on women’s rights and gender equality should always remember one thing – abortion is no form of reproductive health or family planning. under this emphasis i would kindly ask mr borg to analyse the negative effects on women, especially mothers, of the global gag rule. we should by no means develop an own method of discrimination against mothers.
ladies and gentlemen, today is roma day and a special opportunity to remind us once again that we in the european union are a community of values, that everything that happens in the world must be dealt with accordingly and that we do not care what happens in the world to minorities, to those who think differently. we must always find very clear words.
the next item is the oral question to the council on the following subject: 'international roma day' by ms christine dimitrie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie dönitz/marie elvie dönitz/marie dön
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the serbian roman rajko đurić wrote in a book: "one day god decided to create man. he took clay, fashioned a figure out of it, and put it in a vessel to burn it into clay. then he went for a walk, and when he came back, the man was completely black. he became the ancestor of the blacks. god tried again to create man, and again he formed a figure and put it in a vessel to burn it into clay. then he opened the jar a little early and this man was all white and the ancestor of the white. finally, he decided to create a third person, and this one had the color of the two. he became the ancestor of the roma. this myth that humans are different but ultimately of one god has not made it into the lullabies of europe's children. somewhere between the big and the whole, black and white, roma and sinti seem to have been lost, as if they were a negligible side issue. they've disappeared behind brexit and refugee flows, budget figures and forecasts, as if they were redundant. it has been forgotten in some places that they too are part of the fabric of all racism. porajmos with 500,000 people from their community who did not survive 1945. if we are speaking here today on the occasion of roma day, it is because almost all the promises made to the roma and sinti have not been fulfilled, because we owe it to them to work together with them to finally achieve justice for one of europe's oldest minorities. freedom and justice, liberty, equality and fraternity including sisterhood must also apply to roma and sinti. not some time, but now, right now, anywhere. roma and sinti are not beggars. they have no justification for their demands. we have let down too many generations of roma and sinti. let's start working off our debt to them.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission strongly condemns all forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia, including anti-gypsyism. it is indeed a root cause of roma social exclusion and discrimination and it hampers the efficiency of policies which have been put in place. the commission is addressing the issue by a holistic approach through the enforcement of legal policy and financial instruments. we have stepped up our efforts to ensure the correct implementation of anti-discrimination legislation including the racial equality directive, as well as the framework decision against racism and xenophobia. we have launched infringement proceedings against three member states on discrimination against roma children in education. the commission considers that education is a powerful tool to promote citizenship and the common values of freedom, tolerance and non-discrimination. in this context, the commission will propose a council recommendation on promoting social inclusion and common eu values through formal and non-formal learning before the end of this year. the commission will also launch a new pilot action with the council of europe to support the integration of roma through enhancing inclusive education. in june 2016 the commission launched the eu high-level group on combating racism, xenophobia and other forms of intolerance. it provides best practice guidance and strengthens the cooperation between the commission, member states, eu agencies, relevant international organisations and civil society. this high-level group is fostering discussions on the specificities of particular forms of intolerance, including anti-gypsyism. following up on the high-level group’s discussion in december last year, the commission has just published a document gathering key guiding principles on hate crime training for law enforcement and criminal justice authorities. the commission also supports member states and other relevant actors in their efforts to prevent and combat hate speech and hate crime. in the framework of the high-level group, the fundamental rights agency established a dedicated sub-group to support member states in defining a methodology for data collection and recording of hate crime incidents. the commission has also taken initiatives to ensure that illegal hate speech is countered both in the offline and online worlds. on 31 may 2016 we agreed on a code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online, with facebook, twitter, microsoft and youtube. we are now evaluating its implementation by these it companies and we will present the result of this evaluation by the end of may. the commission is convinced that fighting discrimination and anti-gypsyism must go hand-in-hand with fighting roma social and economic exclusion. this is based on the assessment made by the commission and confirmed in the council conclusions of 8 december last year on accelerating the process of roma integration. these conclusions urge member states to acknowledge the discrimination affecting roma, to recognise anti-gypsyism as one of its underlying factors, and to fight it. the conclusions are very concrete and comprehensive in this respect. member states are urged to act through enforcing legislation, broad awareness, awareness raising, promoting a positive image of roma and promoting roma culture, language and history through school curricula, media or research. the council conclusions also urge member states to recognise and commemorate the victims of roma genocide. this is also why the commission allocated eur 6 million as specific funding to projects promoting tolerance and fighting stereotyping, hate speech and hate crime. another example is the two-year eu campaign ‘for roma, with roma’ aimed at combatting prejudices and discrimination, which ran from 2014-2016. funding opportunities to fight discrimination are also available under the european structural and investment fund where the commission encourages member states to involve the representatives of the roma community in the programme’s monitoring and to promote roma integration objectives. finally, the commission considers that it is our moral duty to remember all those who suffered under the nazi regime, including the roma. the commission welcomed and strongly supported the initiative of the european parliament to designate 2 august as european roma holocaust memorial day. the commission has already encouraged member states to do the same. the council conclusions on accelerating the process of roma integration also urge member states to recognise and commemorate the victims of the roma genocide. the commission will continue to support the european parliament in its action to bring the resolution to the council for discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have had a lot of experience in my own life in terms of roma integration, because i was responsible for it as a minister in the past, and i'm quite frankly a bit tired of having to have this debate over and over again. i thank the members who have repeatedly brought this subject up. the integration of roma has not yet been achieved. if eight out of ten roma are close to the poverty line, if one third of the study participants only receive paid employment, then this shows relatively clearly where we are at present. if 50% of children do not go to school, the integration of the roma is still not successful. i think it's important not to dwell on each other's stereotypes: the behaviour of the roma is as follows. you can integrate roma by giving them the opportunity to live properly, by working with social workers to ensure that children go to school, by ensuring that children also receive vocational training - and it doesn't matter whether they are girls or boys, because there are also different ways of dealing with different problems - by ensuring that children are not abused, for example, for begging rings and the like. there is a lot you can do if you want to do this. and, commissioner, i have a request to make. i think statistics are wonderful, but real help is actually the essential thing we need to bring forward. that means we have to act on behalf of the european commission - that would be my request. it is not enough to leave the member states to act alone in the end, because i have the impression that in some member states the development of roma integration is very, very slow and that perhaps more support is needed, sometimes a little more pressure. because when people live in the eu without windows, without bathrooms, without schools nearby, without any prospects of life whatsoever, then i think this is a very problematic situation, one that we can not only reuse with a verbal request for an answer every year, but where we have to change in concrete action.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to tell you a story: a story about two brothers, two roma brothers. they are about my age and grew up in a city very close to my home town. their family came from kosovo. when they were in their mid-20s they were deported from germany back to kosovo – from their home back to a country they almost did not know. they were separated from their families, their friends and their lives. their names are kefaet and selami. they are two brothers, two very talented musicians who have now found their way back home and have expressed their hardship in rap music. they are two among many who have faced discrimination in the european union, but they are also two among many roma and this is what we very often forget when we speak about the roma who have resisted, and who have found a way to deal with this hardship and to say that they want to fight against anti—gypsyism in our societies. not only that, they want to fight for a better life, for civil rights for all, for their families, for prospects and for equality in our societies. they should be an inspiration to all of us, not only on international roma day, but every day, because they will be amongst the people who will shape our societies in the future. do not be mistaken: the fight against anti-gypsyism and against discrimination is not just something that the roma communities have to take care of. it is something that all of us have to work for because this is not only about the livelihoods and the well-being of roma communities; this is about our democracy. this is about whether we want to live in equal societies, so this is about our future as well. i urge you, commissioner and all my colleagues, let us stand up against any form of anti-gypsyism in our societies and fight side by side with the roma people for a future of equality and democracy in the european union.
i would remind you that the first sentence of the charter of fundamental rights reads: 'the dignity of the human person is inviolable.' every human being. this is the basis of our cooperation and our coexistence here in the european union, and we should act accordingly. i would ask the following speakers to do the same.
i was generous with the blue cards now because they were still the spokesmen of the political groups. i will, however, only allow one blue card per speaker from now on, because i have to look at the clock a little. i have, however, now allowed it to continue because it is a very important debate and it also makes clear what the positions of the individual are.
first of all, i would like to remind you - and you know this very well - that there are many other meetings in parallel with the plenary sessions, in which our colleagues take part. you know very well, and it happens to you again and again, that you are not sitting in the plenary all day. you just can't do that if you're doing your job properly. secondly, i have now decided that i will not allow any more blue cards because something is happening here that is not good for the reputation of the european parliament. if we see how discrimination is going to be pervasive in the speeches, i cannot accept that.
i am not going to go into detail. we have had a little delay because of the rather lively debate we have had here. that is why i shall be giving the floor to those who have not had the opportunity to speak today in the following catch-the-eye procedure. i ask the others to understand this, otherwise we will not be able to get along with the many speeches that have been made. catch the eye
mr hölvényi, you are not the only one affected. but i have to look at the clock. i said that only those who have not yet spoken will speak. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the matter. so it is not a discrimination against you personally, but simply an attempt to bring some order into the debate. i'm sorry if you feel that way.
thank you very much, mrs. post. i was going to raise this in the bureau anyway, because these were really far-reaching statements. but thank you for saying that again. i thank you for this debate, which was extremely important. and indeed, every person is responsible for his words, but if they are exaggerated, they can also be held accountable. we'll check that later. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on russia, the arrest of alexei navalny and other demonstrators (2017/2646 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we bow our heads in deep sympathy to the victims and their families of the terrorist attack in st petersburg. it is a basic consensus in the european parliament that no political objective and no right justifies the killing of another human being. and in these difficult hours for the russian people, i propose that we suspend the vote as a sign of compassion for today. two points to make: firstly, despite the criticism of the social and living conditions in russia, which is also necessary from the point of view of our group, and despite all the current escalations, the russian federation will in the end remain a neighbour and there will be no lasting solutions to international problems without and against russia. parliament has put its back to the wall on russia by freezing our channels of communication. the draft resolution calls on the council, in article 13, to adopt a common eu position on russia. i suggest we start with us. the conference of presidents can now and without any problems repeal the decision and bring together the many 'private trips' of members of parliament which are already taking place in a parliamentary dialogue. secondly, human rights are indivisible everywhere and must be implemented, especially if one commits oneself to it. i don't want to see pictures of protesters from any country in the world being dragged away like they're taking garbage to a recycling yard. these pictures from moscow also tell us something about respect for human dignity, about the proportionality of the use of police and also about the length of the road ahead. i mean, yes, corruption has to be fought, in our own home, in our own neighborhood, and of course, in our neighbors' neighbors.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this parliament would be well advised to refrain from any interference in russia's internal affairs. in the case of alexei navalny, we should keep quiet, because when it comes to the prosecution of political dissenters, the eu itself is not an innocent slam. in my country, the federal republic of germany, there are over 12 000 investigations every year for alleged sedition or the formation of a criminal association. over a thousand patriots are jailed and convicted every year. the so-called west is still trying to install systems of its own, following the pattern of the colour revolutions in the countries of the former eastern bloc. as we saw in the externally controlled revolution on the maidan, this did not make any break in the corruption in ukraine. this parliament would be well advised to refrain from any interference in russia's internal affairs.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the law passed in bangladesh to restrict child marriage unfortunately still contains exceptions that allow child marriage. currently in bangladesh, 52 percent of girls are married by their 18th birthday and 18 percent of girls are married by their 15th birthday. the european parliament believes that the law could lead to an increase in dowry-related violence, sexual harassment, rape and acid attacks, and legitimisation of the rape of minors. in fact, the situation is such that girls may be forced to marry potential rapists. that is why i support our motion for a resolution calling on the government to amend this law. the legal loopholes must be closed to prohibit all child marriages.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr. president, as we are all witnesses of the terrorist attacks on the metro in st petersburg, i would suggest that today we do not vote on the resolution but, as a symbolic act, hold the vote in the next plenary part-session. i think that, in this very worrying situation for the citizens of the russian federation, we should link it to the protest in moscow and other cities over the last few weeks.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the epp group is against it. the two facts are unrelated and therefore there is no reason to postpone the vote.
mr president, as usual with the roll call vote, what was the distribution of votes? the spectrum was not shown.
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (o-000011/2017) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 (o-000011/2017) on the common organisation of the market in bananas (o-000011/2017).
i am not going to go into detail. we've got a little more air today, though. mrs grapini asked me why i had not given her the floor for the blue card. i have certain principles that i uphold. i am not in the habit of asking questions within the same group, because we have already seen the effects of colleagues throwing balls at each other. and this is not the kind of lively debate we had in mind when we introduced the blue card.
member of the commission. – mr president, i agree with my colleagues that this was a very good opportunity to discuss this great, huge, alarming, chronic problem – and i call it chronic because we act, we discuss, we act and discuss, and the problem goes on and on. the commission is very much aware of the worrying situation caused by the sub-standard and illegal waste management in campania over the years and has already acted consequently and comprehensively, for over more than 10 years now. the commission has done its maximum within its legal powers and will continue to do its utmost to curb the situation. however, strict enforcement of relevant legislation by the italian competent authorities is paramount to eradicate an environmental and health problem which is instigated by organised crime, and maybe some meps know more than others and accept and admit more than others what is actually going on. i agree with those who said that the citizens are not only paying with their taxes, but more so, they are paying with their health. mr pedicini asked whether the infringement procedure works and i must say, yes, it does work. it works in other member states. it also works in other sectors in italy itself, so why should it not work in italy for this sector? i have to say that even here, as i mentioned before, there was progress in this sector, there was improvement, as a colleague mentioned, that the italian authorities in december presented a management plan which my services are assessing. i was also a bit surprised that, in this letter that we signed, we talk about waste, we talk about health, but very little about the root of the problem, the criminal activity for which the state and the citizens are paying and against which we all have to act. we talked about funding. i do not think that we are addressing an issue of lack of funds here. funding was available. i also mentioned that eur 72 million was provided in the current financial framework, but funding alone will not do the job. we also need the political goodwill of all the authorities, of all the parties, to fight the root cause of these problems. we have only heard about what the eu should do when the eu has already done a lot, without naming and shaming the illegal activities. if we continue to discuss only the commission and the eu without addressing and shaming what the real cause is, i think this will only encourage the illegal activities to go on. and let us not underestimate the scale of this illegal activity because the waste problem in the campania region has been characterised by illegality, inefficiency, irresponsibility and indecision. it is a much more complex phenomenon than it seems and unfortunately it has been inadequately addressed by policymakers. as i said before, i can assure you that my services and all the commission will keep monitoring the situation in campania to verify that the italian authorities are taking the necessary measures to ensure that the waste is managed without endangering human health and the environment in accordance with eu waste legislation. i need to stress again, however, that the solution to the acute health problems derived from the illegal treatment of waste in campania is dependent on all relevant actors working effectively together. it is paramount that the italian competent authorities take a firm hold of the situation and clamp down on organised crime in order to dissociate it from waste management. i think we can all be of service to our citizens not only by discussing the problem, but by actively working together to address again the root cause of it all. we know what the problem is, we know what we have to do so, let us do it. let us act to solve the problem and not continue discussing it in aeternum.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.10 p.m.)
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, prime minister, recent developments in hungary have got many people worried in the eu, but also in the outside world. we share those worries and concerns. questions have been asked about the compatibility of certain actions of the hungarian authorities with eu law and with our shared values, and also these questions were raised by this parliament with the commission. that is why the college decided to discuss the overall situation in hungary in two recent meetings on 12 april and today. the discussions allowed us to assess all the issues in an objective, fact-based and law-based manner. we also consider that given the wider situation, including the spirit of article 2 teu, a broader political dialogue between the hungarian authorities, other member states, the european parliament and the commission should take place. that is why i welcome the debate in plenary today which is part of that broader political dialogue with the participation of the hungarian authorities at the highest level. the recently adopted hungarian higher education law is perceived by many as an attempt to close down the central european university, which i think is a pearl in the crown of post-divided europe, a europe free and whole. (applause) the commission’s analysis of the law confirmed our concerns with regard to its compatibility with internal market freedoms and the eu charter of fundamental rights. the college has therefore decided today to launch infringement proceedings against hungary by sending a letter of formal notice and we await a reaction from the hungarian authorities within a month. the draft legislation tabled to the hungarian parliament at the beginning of april on the funding of so-called foreign non-governmental organisations is also on our radar screen. if adopted, it could raise concerns as regards the compatibility with the eu’s internal market rules, in particular the free movement of capital and the eu charter of fundamental rights, including the freedom of assembly. civil society is the very fabric of democratic societies. we would not be democracies without strong and free civil societies. (applause) i would therefore deeply regret any action by the hungarian authorities aimed at shrinking the space of civil society organisations, or any attempt to control or stigmatise their work. yes, ngos need to be transparent about their finances, but the commission will continue to follow the draft legislation closely and will express its concerns on the draft law in the context of this broader political dialogue. we also discussed asylum and respect for values of human dignity, freedom and human rights, tolerance and solidarity. the commission has already expressed its concerns about the existing hungarian law. the new asylum law adopted at the end of march raises serious doubts about compatibility with eu law. commissioner avramopoulos has launched discussions on these issues with the hungarian authorities. if these discussions do not produce timely results, the commission will not hesitate to take further action. the protection of pregnant working women is another area we have raised formally with the hungarian authorities and as our concerns remain unanswered the college will shortly decide on the need for further action to ensure full compliance with eu rules on maternity leave and gender equality in employment. let me here make a more general point. where the hungarian authorities engage in a dialogue with the commission, good progress can be made, and i want to be crystal clear about this. whenever we ask for a dialogue with the hungarian authorities, they always oblige and start a dialogue so i want there to be no misunderstanding about this. i want to mention two examples where we have reached good progress. with regard to the transposition of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia, we are pleased to see that in our discussions with the hungarian authorities our concerns have been addressed in recently adopted amendments to the hungarian criminal code. however, of course practical implementation of national legislation is key and hate crime cases need to be investigated in practice. we will continue to monitor the situation on the ground. as regards the values of equality and non-discrimination, the college continues to be attentive to the situation of the roma in hungary and in particular to discrimination against roma children in education. here we also had a lot of discussion and dialogue, and following our technical discussions with the hungarian authorities the commission is awaiting for hungary to notify the recently proposed legislative amendments in this field. you will all be aware of the hungarian government’s ‘stop brussels’ consultation. i am pleased to announce that the commission has decided to make public its own response in order to dispel misunderstandings and perhaps get the facts straight. the european union is not, and has never been, about brussels: the european union is a project driven and designed by its member states, each of which has decided individually and democratically that this is the path they wish to adopt. this includes hungary. each and every one of those member states, including hungary, take both the responsibility and the credit for decisions we take collectively. each and every one of those member states, including hungary, under- signed the rules of the club. several of the claims and allegations made in the consultation need correction. for instance, and i quote: ‘brussels wants to force hungary to abolish the reduction in public utility charges’. the reality, however, is that the commission shares the hungarian government’s objective to have affordable energy for households. the best way to achieve this is to establish competitive energy markets and promote energy efficiency and innovation, and to work together at european level to ensure security of supply. that is at the core of the energy union proposals. another allegation: brussels wants to force hungary to let in illegal immigrants. again, the reality is that the european union is fighting irregular migration and is actively helping member states to manage their external borders and return irregular migrants who have no right to stay in the eu, but irregular migration needs to be distinguished from seeking asylum. we have a shared responsibility to live up to our international obligations to protect people fleeing war and persecution and treat them fairly and with dignity. (applause) now let me be very clear. hungary in 2015 was under incredible pressure, incredible pressure, which was extremely difficult to manage. given those exceptional pressures in 2015, in september of that year the commission proposed to relocate up to 54 000 asylum applicants from hungary to other member states, but this proposal was opposed by the hungarian government. hungary is therefore asked to accept a very limited number of asylum seekers – 1 294. these are not illegal immigrants ... from the two most overburdened member states, greece and italy. asylum seekers can select (for) themselves, it is not shoved down their throats, they can select for themselves. another allegation: illegal immigrants heading to hungary are encouraged to illegal acts not by just human traffickers, but also by some international organisations. let me be very clear about this: the european union has zero tolerance for human trafficking and it has taken action for many years to combat this heinous crime. saving lives at sea and looking after vulnerable people who are in need of international protection is not the same thing as promoting irregular migration. there is no evidence whatsoever of ngos working with criminal-smuggling networks to help migrants enter the eu. a fourth claim: more and more organisation supported from abroad operate in hungary with the aim of interfering in hungarian internal matters in a non-transparent manner. i have already indicated earlier the commission’s position. while the conditions under which non-governmental organisations carry out their activities are in principle a matter of national law, those conditions must be in line with eu law and the union’s values. that is the importance of civil society. the european union for its part has strict rules on transparency and lobbying of the european institutions. the fifth allegation is that brussels is attacking hungary’s job-creating measures. the opposite is true. the eu is massively supporting job creation in hungary. the hungarian authorities themselves have reported that this contributed to creating more than 150 000 jobs. the last issue on the questionnaire is that brussels is attacking our country because of tax cuts. the fact of the matter is that eu taxation rules must be agreed by all member states unanimously. the eu has agreed only minimum vat levels. it is the hungarian government that has decided to set the rate at 27% which is the highest in the eu. honourable members, on 23 march the leaders of 27 member states and the eu institutions, including the prime minister of hungary, stated in the rome declaration, and i quote: ‘sixty years ago, recovering from the tragedy of two world wars, we decided to bond together and rebuild our continent from its ashes. we have built a unique union with common institutions, strong values, a community of peace, freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law’. and i have to add to this on a personal note. as a young man i travelled regularly to hungary and i remember very well the sense of oppression i felt crossing the border from austria into hungary: the barbed wire, the watchtowers, the oppressive feeling in budapest that you had all the time. the biggest single miracle in my lifetime is the fall of the berlin wall, the fall of the iron curtain and that hungary became one of the democratic nations of europe, and that is not something the european union should claim credit for. this is something that was done by the hungarian people themselves: striving for freedom, protecting their freedom, however, it is now a common european task and we will have to fight for that. given this history, given the rome declaration, how can one reconcile this with a campaign to stop brussels? the fact that only one month after this declaration we are having today’s debate on the situation in hungary gives us all the more reason to seek clarifications about the intentions of the hungarian government. let me say in conclusion that i strongly thank parliament for supporting this, but i also want to express my gratitude to prime minister orbán for coming here today and having this debate with us. dialogue is the european way, dialogue to solve misunderstandings, but also dialogue when we disagree. that is the european way. (applause)
prime minister of hungary. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, the european parliament is holding another debate on hungary. i have come to brussels to join you in this debate. in my 30-year-old parliamentary career, i have always appreciated debate and the clash of opposing views. democracy is based on reason, and this is the moral foundation of the european union. i believe that better decisions are always made when they are made through debate and not through one-sided revelations. by participating here, i also want to help you make an informed decision when hungary is on your agenda. i remember that the decisions of the previous parliament on hungary did not stand the test of truth. let's just think about the spectacular and embarrassing failure of the tavares report. you may know that we hungarians never give up the fight, and i am trying to apply the power of common sense in this debate today. our dispute is partly with you, and partly with an american financial speculator. i know that hungary's strength, size and weight are much smaller than yours, and smaller than george soros's attack on hungary by an american financial speculator who, although he ruined the lives of millions of european people with his financial speculations, was punished in hungary for speculation, and who is an openly admitted enemy of the euro, is nevertheless held in such high esteem that he is received by the highest leaders of the european union. but that's no reason to judge us on the basis of untruths, because fairness is not a nationwide function. house of honor! i came to defend my country in the debate. but it's important that i report on the successes. in 2008, we started from where greece was. the government of hungary at that time was the first to turn to the imf and to you, the european union, for a loan. we have since repaid this money in full and in advance. we've created hundreds of thousands of jobs since then. hungary is on track to have the lowest unemployment rate in the union. today it's four percent. we've created a work-based society, instead of giving aid, we give work to everyone who wants to work. full employment is our goal. our budget deficit has been exceeding the benchmark you've demanded for years, last time it was minus 1.8 percent, our national debt is falling, our economic growth is steady at around 4 percent this year. we have a lot of problems to solve, but we have something to be proud of. i am convinced that hungary's success is also a european success, and the union needs success today. it would be foolish if, because of ideological differences, this fact did not receive enough attention. the european parliament is hereby established. i see there are several cases that might interest you. word has spread that the hungarian government has shut down the private university in budapest run by george soros, an american financial speculator. the rector of this university wrote to the faculty and students of the institution, and i quote: we would like to emphasise that the central european university is not threatened by anything, and that it will continue to operate under all circumstances. honourable commission, honourable parliament, this accusation is therefore unfounded, without any factual basis. this is absurd. it's like when a person is accused of murder, convicted, and the victim of the alleged crime is alive and well. in fact, you're pointing at the convict, calling him a murderer. the reality is that the minor amendment to the law adopted by the hungarian parliament affects 28 foreign universities operating in hungary and does nothing but unify the regulations applicable to them, closes the possibility of speculation and abuse, demands transparency and abolishes the privileged position enjoyed so far vis-à-vis european universities. you are european lawmakers. as prime minister of hungary and leader of an eu member state, it is my duty to ensure that european and hungarian universities are not put at a disadvantage compared to their competitors outside the eu. no matter how big and rich the owner is. mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the other item on the agenda is the national consultation announced by my government in the last few days. i would like to inform you that in hungary, over the past decade, it has become customary to regularly ask the citizens of the country. we've had four national consultations in the last few years. i would recommend this method to you. during this consultation, the hungarian government is asking for the support of the hungarian people to formulate its position on specific issues to be represented in brussels. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, i want to make it clear that hungary and the hungarian government's commitment to the european union is beyond question. hungarian politics has been built on this foundation for the last 30 years. that is why i have signed it and why i fully support the rome declaration and the programme of my party, the european people's party, which were recently adopted in malta. at the same time, mr president, mr vice-president, we are dissatisfied with the way the european union is working in many respects. we are criticizing because we want to correct the mistakes and reform the european union. we are convinced that the only way to restore citizens' trust in the european institutions is to do everything possible to eliminate the causes of poor and inefficient functioning. therapy requires a clear diagnosis, a clear identification of the problems. i personally, too, but we hungarians usually like to speak straight. we're putting it in a clear and unambiguous way for everyone to understand, even though we know that not everyone will like it. we are also irritated by the political language, which has been hamstrung and rendered unfit for naming, which is now eating away at the european public. but i don't think that the same temperament and debate style can be expected in the 28 countries of the european union. that's what i find exciting, and that's why i personally like european political culture. if you break down, if you break down the prejudices that have been held against us, you will find refreshing, innovative and creative political thinking. the same is true of counseling. i am convinced that hungary owes its success to this. in some cases, the hungarian government's position on the national consultation questionnaire is that this direct speech is contrary to the commission's intentions. we are clear that we do not want, and do not consider, compulsory immigration to be compatible with the eu's founding treaties. who we live with is a decision that only hungarian citizens can make. important information is that george soros and his ngos want to transport one million migrants a year to the european union. he personally announced this program publicly and offered a financial loan. you could have read it. we reject this proposal. we also do not want to lose the right of the government to set prices for public utilities, as the national authorities have done so far, because we are afraid that this will increase the burden on the population and lead to a sharp increase in prices again, and hungarian families have already suffered enough from this. we also do not want the right to tax, which is currently a national competence, to be transferred to the union, because we believe that this would undermine our competitiveness. nor do we understand that the commission every year in its annual report criticizes the hungarian public service system, which is an important element of the established work-based and not welfare-based society. these are topical issues. our position is that we do not want to change these, we do not want to rearrange national and eu jurisdiction in these matters, that is, we are defending the status quo that has been established by common will. hence the name 'stop brussels'. isn't that a sin? we have also adopted together the rules which are now in force and which we are defending, and the current rules which we are defending are also common european union acquis. therefore, i believe that the hungarian position and the hungarian consultation cannot be characterised as anti-european. it is also true - and i do not want to deny it - that our vision of europe is based on a strong europe of strong member states. in a europe like this, the member states bear the responsibility and do not shirk it. responsibility for the national debt, the budget and border security. members of the house of representatives! we use the tools of debate, argument and persuasion to shape the decision-making process here. i suggest that those who do not like the opinion of our country, confront it with their own arguments, we will fight our arguments, but please do not judge me because hungary has its own independent opinion. house of honor! the third issue is the regulation of non-governmental organizations. the draft that we're discussing here, in hungary, is going to be modeled after the american model. in several countries of the union, and i know that in the context of the pieper report, you are also dealing here in parliament with the complex question of how to make the operation of foreign lobbies with large amounts of capital, which seek to influence democratic decision-making, transparent to everyone. hungarian law is based on the principle of transparency and openness. we want nothing more than to know about ngos, what money and what interests are behind them. it does not diminish their constitutional right to be heard, to represent their interests, and to organize freely. members of the house of representatives! it is also important to note that the attitude of the hungarian government so far has been consistent, without deviations, and we intend to comply with the rules of the club, and we have always complied with them. i am aware that membership of the eu brings not only rights but also obligations. we have tried to resolve the conflicts of the past years through dialogue and negotiation. i am pleased to report that as a result of this, we have been able to reach a common agreement on such complex issues as media regulation, the new hungarian constitution, the reform of the judicial system and the development of nuclear energy. these are successfully closed cases. i want to assure the vice president that we will do the same on the issues on the agenda. house of honor! hungary is a proud country. hungarians have always considered themselves an important european nation, committed to the european christian values, and wanted to have a say in decisions concerning them. my government is working in hungary to strengthen hungary's commitment to the european union. our work is successful. the support of the european union is the highest among the member states in hungary, over 70 percent, and we are proud of that. believe me, people support the european union, but they only support the european union if it is based on fair and open debate and if it is able to admit that it needs reforms from time to time. mr. president, we have always given you the respect. i ask you to be critical of prejudice when it comes to hungary, i ask you to stick to the truth, and i ask you to measure with an equal standard. only then can we all be worthy of the name europe. thank you for listening.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this isn't about soros. i don't understand this. for 25 years, the central european university in budapest has been awarding two diplomas: one american and one hungarian. it's been a good practice for 25 years, it's made a name for itself. hungarian students have an advantage because they get two degrees in their city in budapest . i, and i can say this for my whole group, mr prime minister, simply do not understand why this advantage is being taken away from this university. (applause from the centre) the request from our side is clear and unambiguous: scientific freedom is a fundamental value of the european union, which must be upheld and defended. the university administrators just want to do their job, which is to teach students. i therefore ask viktor orbán to accept and implement the guidelines, requests and amendments which the commission has now put forward. i would like to make a second point. the second thing i don't understand is that, yes, you can disagree, you can take different positions in a debate, of course. but what is being done in hungary with this poll is not the gathering of arguments and opinions, but the creation of anti-european sentiment. (applause from the centre) if we are talking about bureaucrats who rule in brussels, i look into this room and see, dear viktor orbán, mr prime minister, don't be angry with me: most of the bureaucrats are behind you, the rest of the house are all mps, elected politicians who work here. i would therefore like to make it clear that it is not bureaucrats in brussels who decide, but elected politicians - ministers, members of parliament. elected politicians decide in brussels. we can't let that be damaged in the long run. i say that there are many national politicians who are anti-european. but we cannot tolerate this happening. a strong hungary needs a strong eu in the long term, and we must not damage that. i understand this a little better, and i want to make it clear: if the hungarian government is putting forward an initiative to know who is funding the ngos and how they are financed, i wonder why the green group is attacking it now. here in brussels, the green group is the most vocal in favour of transparency. they want to know how ngos are funded. i 'll tell you the truth . the fact that we get transparency in hungary, what money from russia or america or god knows where to finance this ngo such a law i would like for europe too. i'd like to know who's funding all this. (applause from the centre) the quality of viktor orbán's work in hungary, the record he has given today, the work he is doing for his country and thus for europe, cannot be compared to the spectre of europe. hungary has done excellent work in many areas, and i say this explicitly: some conservative politicians are also part of my party family, the european people's party is one of them, and we do not let anyone advise us who is in the epp and who is not. i would like to thank frans timmermans. he pointed out that this is the way we should work in europe. if there's a problem, we sit down and talk. i am sorry to have to correct frans timmermans on one point: this is not the way of all parties - it is the way of the epp. viktor orbán has never shied away from the debate, and he has always delivered. the commission has always closed the derogations it has requested. but when we discussed romania and its corruption laws, there was no romanian socialist prime minister present. i hope that my colleague mr muscat, who is now up to his ankles in the panama swamp in malta, will be here next month - in may - to ask himself these questions. he's the president of the council. (applause from the centre) that is why the socialists are speaking with a double tongue. the epp is here and we are talking. europe is not the right of the strong, but the strength of the right. this has been proven and confirmed by viktor orbán in recent years. we therefore trust that he will be ready to listen to and implement european proposals in this case too.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not it is normal for people who are in politics and who have grown up in different social eras to change their position, to develop further, to open up. i believe that there are few well-known figures in european history who have not been affected by developments. i am thinking, for example, of georg lukács, whom i greatly respect and who, for me, is the very character of hungary - the proud hungary of which you spoke. a hungary of democracy, freedom, openness and change for the benefit of the people who live there. you spoke of the people, of the hungarian people, who are so proud. i say, what do you think the people are? people live in hungary, including migrants, including migrants of different ethnicities, including roma. is hungary the country where all those people who are in your country want to live, want to work? do they all have the same rights? are they given equal consideration? aren't they discriminated against? that is the crucial question i want to ask you. you are talking about soros. i'm not a friend of soros at all. i don't have to justify myself. i'm surprised you would say that, because is it true that you were a soros fellow at oxford? then i am surprised by this combination that you bring up now, and i think if it is true that you really want the actual law on higher education that has been passed to be a lexceu, that it is therefore primarily against this university, because the conditions that are set in the law apply to this one university, then you have to ask yourself: what is happening here? is this about freedom of science? is it about access to education, training, study, research and science? or is it simply a matter of cheap return carriages? and i think that this cannot be carried on the backs of students, of teachers, of people who are in the middle of their education, who have to decide whether they will even register for the next semester. we had the rector of the university here in parliament yesterday. that's not consistent with what you're saying. perhaps he has now come to appreciate the effect that this law has on the people themselves. two weeks ago, 80,000 people took to the streets. it was not we in hungary who protested there! it was your citizens who protested and said: 'we are losing something here. this is also about keeping this university part of academic life! we therefore call on you to take action to ensure that these rights are respected. check the ngo laws! they are not in accordance with international law, they are not in accordance with many other things. examine your dealings with asylum seekers! it is not just the laws that you decide at national level that are at issue here, but also international conventions that must be respected. you have the same obligation to respect this as you have to respect the eu charter of fundamental rights.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. i understand we're discussing your new college law today. but we all know that's not the point. it's about the hungarian renown, it's about the hungarian way. hungary is opposed to brussels' centralism and wants to preserve its national independence. hungary opposes the mass immigration of muslims and is protective of the christian-western culture. hungary is resisting the left-green zeitgeist and simply wants to be hungarian. hungary does not want to be france, which has been living under a state of emergency since november 2015, or stockholm, the world capital of rape. if i have to choose between the french, the swedish and the hungarian way, then i too will choose the hungarian way. mr orbán, please stand firm, you are a rock in the surf. thank you for what you're doing.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not alone in its efforts to achieve this. the eu already has very high social standards compared with the rest of the world. it's nice, but it's expensive. you have to be able to afford the social pillar. given the economic situation in the eu, additional concerns are a risk. they can weaken the competitive position of firms and hinder investment. this may create problems in the weaker countries of the eurozone and eastern europe. small businesses will be more affected than large ones. we fear that the social indicators will be used to further harmonise areas and to bring more competences to the european level. after many years of cohesion policy, the competitiveness of the member states has hardly matched and not improved. while some of the stronger countries could afford additional rules and thus costs, the weaker countries or even smaller companies often cannot. while industrial firms from stronger countries might then benefit from the weakening of their competition, the call for more intra-european transfers and a higher burden on taxpayers, for example with a european unemployment insurance scheme or other stabilising elements for the eurozone, is likely to follow. if the eu weakens the competitive position of individual countries, it must also take responsibility for this. and that's exactly what we don't want. the eu must respect the principle of subsidiarity. the national states themselves must take responsibility for their social concerns - for better or for worse. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i come from a country in germany that is doing some of these social pillars quite well and some not so well. i am not concerned that some countries can decide this for themselves, as they need to. the first point i want to make is that we do not need a european solution to this problem, but that we respect the principle of subsidiarity and that each country must remain solely responsible for its own social systems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to start on the positive side: it is good that social issues are at the top of the agenda, it is good that reconciliation of family and work is finally becoming legislation for this i thank the commission. but do you really think that's enough for people? do you really think that this is the 'triple a' for a social europe? we have great pressing challenges in europe: increasing inequality, poverty, globalisation, digitalisation and demographic change. and i think that what is on the table now is not enough. europe needs more than a non-binding social monarch. the 20 principles that the commission has written down are very good in content, but for the most part they are already written down somewhere. we social democrats expect concrete legislation to improve the social situation in europe; the european union has a framework directive on decent work, a child guarantee to combat child poverty, a binding social policy in the european semester, and this must apply to more than just the eurozone. otherwise europe will drift further apart. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to convince the member states to follow your path, which i support in principle. but we need to do more than talk about it. we must take concrete action, we need concrete legislation to improve the situation of the people of europe - the workers. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. there were just a few messages about what the european commission should do and what it should not do. but that's not the way to go about it. the commission says it wants to take care of safety at work, to make sure that we have contracts that are really fair to the people, to make sure that we get common rules to fulfil what jean-claude juncker meant when he said: the european union needs a social profile. is that not the right approach, and is it not completely wrong to say: not enough, it does not get through. we don't need a department store catalogue. we need focus. i mean, the commission did that, didn't it?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has listed what would be good and useful. it calls on the member states to follow this path. but the most pressing problems of a european labour market, with the uncertainties, with the uncertain solutions that a european labour market needs, with minimum standards that apply to all, are not yet on the table. i hope they come. consulting is not going to get us anywhere. i expect a timetable for concrete legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner! they have built a great and powerful house with this european union, with a solid pillar of the european single market, with a common european currency on the common foundation of values. but this house lacks a central pillar to build a protective roof on. that's why so many people in europe are in the rain right now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these people are beginning to question the foundation of our house. and there is only one way to protect this foundation of peace, democracy and human rights: by finally building a roof for this house on a pillar of social rights. the commission has not presented us with a pillar, but with a shaky supporting pillar. this support column will collapse in the next tremor. i want to live in this european house for many years to come, and that is why i, along with millions of other european citizens, am counting on a commission that will build for longer than the next blast of wind.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have heard that there are some who want a social union with transfer mechanisms, with increased social spending, suitable for countries in crisis. and the others say, "well, it's the opposite effect, we don't want to do anything". i want us to try to build bridges. how about this idea - i have already passed it on to marianne thyssen: can we not convene an eu social convention? but not as a body, not as an alibi for discussion, not as a body that meets behind closed doors. the opposite is true: to make sure that they go in public, involve parliamentarians, involve governments, also make sure that the social partners are involved. but then, above all, we should invite the people concerned, and do so regularly: the people affected by unemployment, the people who are marginalized, those who are also refugees, people with disabilities, so that we can provide them with a forum. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. whether it's safety at work or social justice or employment law situations. if we have that as a basis, then we can make it clear: we want this social europe, and we want to take people with us. would that not be an opportunity, commissioner?
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all thank you for your introduction and clarification. our relations with turkey unfortunately have still not reached calm waters. you have all seen the news coming from turkey even today, and many of you have commented on it. we have stressed on many occasions that it is turkey’s sovereign right to let its citizens vote on whether to have a parliamentary or a presidential system. however, the constitutional reform and the circumstances in which the referendum took place are a matter of concern, for three reasons. first, we share the very serious concerns of the venice commission with regard to the proposed constitutional changes. this is something we stated clearly before the vote. once the constitutional changes are fully implemented, turkey will move even further away from european standards, especially with regard to the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary. second, the office for democratic institutions and human rights of the osce has noted that the vote did not take place on a level playing field. the two sides did not have equal opportunities to campaign. turkish voters were not provided with impartial or balanced information about the amendments they were voting on. also, the ongoing state of emergency has curtailed fundamental freedoms that are essential to a genuinely democratic process. the final osce/odihr report will be published in the next few days. it will now be crucial that all allegations of irregularities on election day are addressed through transparent investigations. it is always essential that democratic processes are fair and free; but this is even more crucial when deep constitutional changes are at stake. our constitutions define the common rules of the game: if these rules are not recognised and accepted by everyone, the whole system becomes weaker. third, the electoral campaign has left turkey’s population deeply divided. the two sides disagree about the fundamental direction in which they would like to see their country move. the close referendum result makes the need to seek a broad consensus all the more important. i clearly see this as a way forward. accusations and rhetorical aggressions flourished between the two campaigning sides within turkey, but also between turkish representatives and international actors. it is in the interest of turkey to mend such an internal division, and it is in the interest of everyone to engage more constructively on the international arena. the cooperation between turkey and the council of europe is of paramount importance and has produced some results already. this work needs to be carried on and further deepened. we continue to encourage turkey to address the council of europe’s concerns and recommendations, including with regard to the state of emergency. security and fundamental freedoms can go together and must go together, in the interest of all turkish citizens. the question at stake now is what this means for eu-turkey relations and their future. the time has come for an open and friendly discussion with turkey about the future of our relationship. we will have a first opportunity after the referendum to exchange views on the way forward together with the european union foreign ministers at the gymnich meeting in two days’ time in malta. we therefore look forward to hearing your views and will be very interested to hear your interventions. i think you will contribute in a very concrete and precise manner in the ongoing debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today, when we discuss relations between the european union and turkey, we must look a little further back - at least to the coup d'état of almost a year ago, when erdoğan himself and thousands of turkish citizens stood up against the military, bravely defended the country's democracy and freedom and thus kept alive ataturk's words; and i quote: political power based on guns alone will not be sustained. perhaps we underestimated the developments in the days after the coup, the struggle for freedom and democracy. even then, unfortunately, god gave erdoğan the impression that he was using this coup and the developments afterwards for his own power. the defence of freedom and democracy would have been the starting point for turkey to enter a new phase of democracy and the rule of law. unfortunately, we are now seeing the opposite. we all know the development and what happened next: 40,000 people arrested, 100,000 fired from public service, 170 media closed, 100 journalists in jail, and last night more than 1,000 police officers fired from their jobs - another massive intervention. now the referendum. the oecd has made this clear: fairness was not guaranteed. democracy is not only practiced when you count the numbers, when you count the electoral documents properly, but democracy also means that there is already fairness in the process in the media. in this respect, erdoğan has now achieved his goal, but the price he is paying is high: turkey is now a divided country, the economy has suffered massive damage, and many friends have been put to shame, external relations have been damaged. now we need to discuss how to proceed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the european union is not a party to the agreement, but it is a party to the agreement. turkey is going in the wrong direction. anyone who opens their eyes needs to see this. it's time to reevaluate and clarify the relationship. and i would also like to answer the question put to us by the commissioner: from the epp group's point of view, full membership of the european union is no longer realistic. we must end the lie that dominates relationships now. i believe that we can even go so far as to say that the enlargement pledge we made in 2004 has done more harm than good. on the turkish side, i have seen many partners in recent years who have told me that your offer is not at heart honest. the eu will never take us in. it's a promise that was never meant to be. and this has led to anger and rejection in turkey. what about europe? in europe, i have to tell you that boris johnson, in the brexit campaign, distributed flyers, where he presented turkey, syria and iraq as possible future eu member states. it was a lie, but the fear that this europe is borderless, makes people in europe insecure. that is why we should put an end to the lie of full membership for turkey now. the council must have such a discussion of principle. donald tusk, as president of the council, must travel to ankara. we need to talk to each other about how we are going to shape future relationships, and the basis for future partnership is honesty describing what is possible, but also what is not possible, and also making our position clear: we do not want to close the door. the epp group wants to make an offer. the customs union, for example, the customs union plus, which the commission has already proposed - perhaps we can extend it further: more economic cooperation, opening the doors to visas for students, improving exchanges for people - yes, we say yes to that. and we will also have to work more closely together in the fight against terrorism, against isis and so on. in the area of refugee policy, we have shown that sectoral cooperation makes sense that both sides see the benefit. this is the way we want to go. we need a new start in relations, in partnership with turkey, based on honesty, and that means: closing the accession talks and opening a new chapter in sectoral cooperation.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the referendum result is not a glitzy victory for erdoğan he has deeply divided the country. we are now calling for a reorientation of eu relations with turkey and for an offensive to support turkish civil society. mr weber, whoever is going to let almost half of turkey down by stopping the accession negotiations is at best naive or irresponsible. the customs union, by the way, where economic interests are at stake, is not being abandoned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. we don't want any part of this business. let us now demand stop signs in the right places. first, refugee funds instead of dirty refugee deals. secondly, no arms exports to turkey. thirdly, the withdrawal of troops from nato partners, and fourthly, let us now lay the foundations for dialogue to strengthen democratic forces and call for an end to the repression of the opposition, the independent media, the kurds and women.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, right now is really the time for the european union to send a very clear message to turkey, to erdoğan specifically, and we all agree that we cannot continue business as usual. but it is also a very important time right now to talk to the 49% who have voted ‘no’ despite all the threats, despite the very unfair procedure and despite lots of people being put into jail. our message to them has to be: we will not leave you alone. we will continue to engage with you, we will continue to support you – and by ‘us’ i mean the european union, but also the political groups, and also us as individual citizens. we are responsible as the european union to use the tools that we have in our hands to help those people. we do not have so many tools in our hands, but i think there is one very important one, and that is the customs union, because that is something that erdoğan wants, so we really need to use that one tool we have in our hands, and by using it i mean let us not upgrade it right now. we should not upgrade it before there is substantial improvement on human rights. questioning the accession talks or ending the talks might seem like the easy answer, the rapid answer, but it does not mean that it is right or effective. i think this would only help erdoğan and it would close the door to the people we want to support. let us trade the symbolism for real action, the real action is not the customs union. so friends in turkey we will not forget you in these dark times.
i have to say, madam president, let's see what it's really like. president erdoğan has gone from being turkey's beacon of hope to being the gravedigger of democracy, the economy and also turkey's accession to the eu. now we have to figure out how to deal with it. we know, and we can be quite frank, that erdoğan himself has long since renounced turkey's membership. for years he has vehemently opposed our interference in what he calls 'internal turkish affairs'. his aim has always been to establish a monopoly, and he has now achieved this with the referendum with his new frankenstein constitution. i think that's a very brilliant idea. it's not mine, but it's important to me that i quote it. we must therefore put an end to this unworthy theatre of accession negotiations. it is quite clear that we do not have to wait for the death penalty to be reintroduced. as soon as this new constitution, which was approved in the referendum, comes into force, we must conclude the accession negotiations. in my own country, no one understands why turkey is still receiving pre-accession aid from the eu, and we can only end this if we end the negotiations altogether. of course we need an alternative. we don't want to slam the door. we're offering a cooperation on another level.
in writing. the european parliament was deeply concerned by the fact that the turkish referendum was narrowly approved by a majority of voters. amendments to the constitution would not improve relations between turkey and the european union. the venice commission of the council of europe, for example, has come to the clear conclusion in its investigation that this constitutional amendment would give the president a power that goes beyond the normal measure of a presidential democracy. the venice commission is particularly critical of the possible weakening of the parliament and the president's competence to appoint 12 of the 15 constitutional judges. turkey is an important trading partner and ally for us. unfortunately, for years now, it has been moving away from our european standards in political terms. the approval of the referendum further consolidated this trend. despite the current tensions, dialogue, in particular with turkish civil society, must continue. almost 50 percent of turks did not vote for the constitutional amendment. we should encourage these people and make it clear that we want to continue exchanges and cooperation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. it is clear that if ankara were to introduce the death penalty, as is currently being discussed, this would lead to the breakdown of the negotiations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, giving support to member states in the implementation of structural funds and for structural reforms might sound like a very technical matter, but it is in fact deeply political, because, in times of crisis when in some member states the structural funds have become almost the only source of public investment, the way in which this money will be spent becomes absolutely crucial. yes, this proposal could have been shaped as a powerful instrument to say to these member states: you go through difficult times and we will support you. unfortunately, this chance has been missed. for my group, this proposal is far too unspecific in the aims it should reach for member states, and could thus become a tool to impose unwanted structural reforms in the member states rather than supporting member states in difficult situations. we would have liked to reach a proposal that would empower member states in distress, a hope that was unfortunately not met in the trilogues.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not yes, it is true. parliament has been very active in this european year of cultural heritage. why would you do that? because we believe that it is a great opportunity to bring the tangible and intangible cultural heritage closer to the citizens of europe. we are showing how great the diversity of cultural heritage is and that culture in europe is never just singular but always plural. and that it is a great opportunity for many citizens to experience and learn that cultural exchange and dialogue have always benefited in european history. there are people who are questioning this very thing now and want to return to culturally homogeneous societies. i think that's a serious mistake. therefore, to highlight the richness of europe's cultural history, to show that intercultural dialogue and understanding are at stake, to show that cultural exchange has brought people together and that this has enriched their lives, is the aim of this year of cultural heritage. the fact that people in everyday life have the opportunity to really participate in this rich history is a positive change in their daily lives and also in their sense of belonging to the european union. we're showing that we have more in common than what divides us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 27 april 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102016) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union (c0102017) the name of the union) the name of the union (c010 of the union (c010) the name of the union (c010) the name of the union (c010 of the union)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the court of auditors! as in previous years, parliament must not only vote on the budget but also on the discharge to be given to the commission and the other european institutions for the financial years which have elapsed, in order to give them a discharge. this year we are voting on the discharge for the 2015 financial year. we have now reached the end of a journey of several months, which began with the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for the financial year 2015 and the annual reports of the directorates-general for the same year that is now more than seven months behind us. this report would not have been possible without close cooperation with the relevant institutions and individuals. i would like to thank the court of auditors, in particular its president, mr klaus heiner-lehne, and the responsible auditor, mr lazaros lazarou, and their staff. i thank commissioner kristalina georgieva and, after the change of office, commissioner günther oettinger, and all the commissioners and directors-general and their staff for the many constructive and open discussions. i would like to thank the staff of the committee secretariat, mr godts and mr ehlers, mr szechy, who is an adviser to my group, and my colleague mr reichel. i would also like to thank all my colleagues who worked on the report as shadow rapporteurs and all the colleagues from parliament who added more than 400 amendments to the report. the committee on budgetary control therefore recommends, in line with the recommendation of the court of auditors, that parliament and the commission be granted discharge for the year 2015. the accompanying resolution criticises the shortcomings in the management and audit of eu spending, identifies the member states with the worst performance and makes concrete recommendations for measures to remedy the problems. the resolution welcomes the approach of a more results-oriented approach, i.e. to examine more closely, in addition to the legality and regularity of payments, whether the results of projects and programmes are in line with the original objectives. this whole thing is called performance-based budgeting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that this will be done in a follow-up to the report so that the whole thing does not simply disappear into the filing cabinet. i want to make a few points: we ask for better coordination of the previous planning cycles. we have thus confronted the seven-year medium-term financial framework with a five-year mandate from the european parliament and the commission. the whole thing is then fed by a strategic 10-year planning cycle, and the budget must not only meet the eu 2020 strategy or the commission's top ten priorities, but also - and increasingly - respond to current political and financial crises. 2020 offers the chance to bring these long-term strategies into line with the budgetary cycle to tie parliament and the commission more closely to policy objectives and funding that they themselves could not decide in advance, thus making the budget more flexible to better respond to current challenges. we recommend a rolling budget with a five-year planning horizon.
mr president, commissioner oettinger, minister, dear ex-colleague mr lehne, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to concentrate my contribution - i can join my colleagues in german - on the discharge of the european parliament and to speak here about the sections dealing with the behaviour of the former president of this house, martin schulz. what the committee on budgetary control has decided here is, in my view, wrong in substance, overstated in its descriptions, redundant in content, goes far beyond the mandate of the committee on budgetary control and thus actually constitutes a breach of the rules of procedure of the house which describe the tasks of the committee on budgetary control: campaign is not one of them. why campaign? because the purpose of the discharge report is to deal with the management of the house's finances and not to settle accounts with officials who have been resented. but the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, the german cdu member of parliament ingeborg gräßle, and her colleagues do not tire of attacking martin schulz, who is now the chancellor's candidate for my party, the spd, with strong words. any decision criticised by the budgetary control committee has been deemed by the administration of this house to be in accordance with the rules. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. so, no rule violation is in front of the budget control committee claims the opposite. this is dishonest and a political maneuver to gain advantages in the german election campaign. for example, where is there a verifiable error? the much-discussed long-term business trips. the administration has just announced in the past that it will no longer continue to operate the ep's washington office on a permanent basis. that's a lot of guilt to swallow. but in order to maintain the accusations, it is then misquoted and misinterpreted. it's sloppy, to say the least, but it's manipulative. in the absence of any infringement, olaf, the european union's anti-fraud office, also announced today that it would not be launching an investigation. there is no case, schulz. i would like to draw attention to a context which, in my view, has played too little of a role in the discussions and in the reporting on the unfounded accusations. if the administration has found the former president of parliament to have acted lawfully, what does that say about the administration of parliament - the administration headed by the secretary-general of the german christian democrat party, klaus welle, who is also here tonight? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations under the budgetary procedure. my group will, in any case, ensure that this role of the ep's administration and the responsibility of the secretary-general is also discussed. the amendments which my group is tabled are a correction of the situation. save the reputation of the house and support us!
mr president, commissioner, president of the court of auditors, president of the council! i'm sorry about the vulture. first rule of politics: don't lose your nerve. so, my dear jens vulture, you're actually much smarter than what you've been delivering here tonight. i should like to read something that the secretary-general has told us, namely that the only binding opinion of the administration on this matter is the report of the secretary-general to the committee on budgetary control. lies just don't become more true by being repeated all the time. i would like to give this to my colleagues from the socialist group. i would like to say that the circumstances surrounding these amendments or these passages of text, which we adopted by a large majority in the committee on budgetary control, are already becoming bizarre. so when the current president of parliament is threatened with reprisals, that is going too far. i can say that it is our duty to stick to the truth. i am grateful to the committee for presenting these texts in this way and i am grateful to mr de jong. i think we should reject fake news precisely because we are the european parliament. the s&ds therefore ask that the motions be rejected because they are simply not correct.
president of the court of auditors. mr president, thank you very much. i would like to thank all those who have spoken here today for the kind words which have been addressed to us to the court of auditors . i would like to draw particular attention to mr lazarou and myself, because he was the one who did the main work in preparing the court of auditors' annual report, because he is the court's chief rapporteur, and to his colleagues. he himself has heard all this, but i would also like to convey to his colleagues these good wishes and the many thanks that have been given. i am sure it will delight them all and encourage them to continue to do good work in the future in the interest of the common cause. i have heard a lot today where i could have given a loud applause, but that is no longer my place as president of the european court of auditors in this house. i therefore take the liberty of returning this thanks and applause, so to speak, verbatim, without being able to express it formally and to carry it out. i would like to conclude by saying a few words on a number of points. i am very sympathetic to the idea of reducing the medium-term financial framework from seven to five years. this is a subject which has also been the subject of internal discussions. it would also have the great advantage - if i may say so as a personal opinion - that every parliament, every legislator, would then have the opportunity to participate in a medium-term financial framework, because the legislative period of the european parliament and the scope of the european commission's activities also cover this period of five years. that's a very interesting consideration. the second point concerns the question of the shadow budgets, which has been raised on several occasions. it is true that certain areas esm, esfs have been mentioned are outside the contractual framework of the community structure; that will not be possible. but the debate on the opinions on the mff has also touched on other matters, which are clearly outside the existing structures and which, for reasons of transparency, should be brought back into the budgetary structure in the foreseeable future. it is not possible to do so everywhere, but at least we should have the objective in mind, so that we do not end up with a 'galaxy of budgets' as the chairman of the committee on budgets of this house has said, and that transparency and clarity are maintained. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. i have been a member of this house for 20 years and have been a member of the court of auditors for more than three years now. i think i do, i have a certain overview of that period. if i look at the situation and the situation of 20 years ago, where there were no functioning internal controls by the commission, where we as the court of auditors did not publish concrete error rates at that time because everyone knew that there were double-digit error rates in certain budgetary sectors, and i compare the situation of that time with the situation we have today, where we have made tremendous progress, where we have really made significant changes towards a much better budgetary and financial management, then i think that in those 20 years, in total, a lot has been achieved. not enough, it can be better. that is why the criticism is always right, and we have to develop further, but if you look at the whole picture, i think that these have been very big steps forward. we have to keep working on it. i can assure mr novakov that we will be able to gather more analytical and concrete information in the future and will make it available to you for your consideration. we also believe that mere numbers and statistics are not enough, but that we need more information for qualitative tests. we will do our part to do this. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european parliament, the council, the court of auditors and the commission are independent institutions of the european union. but the task of budgetary policy and the objective to be achieved by budgetary programmes unite us. i therefore understood today's debate to mean that we should reach a common goal from different areas of competence. thank you for the constructive advice. we assure you that we will follow up the recommendations in the discharge report you will be passing tomorrow in the coming months. firstly, in the 2018 draft budget, which the commission will present in two months' time, rather earlier, i.e. at the end of may. secondly, by making it the basis for the next multiannual financial framework. thirdly, by submitting to you a report on the follow-up during the year. and fourth, i'm going to build on the fact that all of this is going to be reflected in the midterm review in the next few weeks. thank you very much. the commission, as a learned body, is still prepared to accept the proposals for improvement.
president-in-office of the council. thank you to parliament for inviting the presidency to participate in this very important debate and, yes, as i said, as often as the maltese presidency - myself or my colleagues - are here to participate in this democratic european institution, and i think that today's debate was one and important where it also showed that we share many concerns but also positive concerns about the future. i can agree that the unqualified audit opinion of the court on the management of european union funds remains our ultimate objective and that further improvement is still needed, so let me again stress the need for all financial stakeholders to fully assume their responsibilities and work in this regard. i believe that the budget of the european union is crucial to send a message to our citizens and also to unlock the objectives of the various policies we have, whether in economic growth, job creation and the other areas that our citizens expect us to work hard to improve their lives and also the european project - the european continent - to remain strong and competitive in the global world. even in the circumstances of limited resources, working to avoid losing a single cent remains a crucial point, and so i say, let us also send a clear message through this debate to our citizens, to those who contribute to this budget - the taxpayers - that we are all here under the various institutions we represent, and the european parliament represents them directly to ensure that the money they contribute is returned to them through the common good that is created.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i thank president lehne, commissioner oettinger and many colleagues for addressing matters which i was unable to mention earlier because of the time lag, but which are also very close to my heart. this is the treatment of the issue of shadow and subsidiary budgets, which contain a lot of european money from the budget, but which involve problems with parliamentary control and risks in the control and coordination of eu strategies. i would point out that at the end of 2015 there were more than 1 000 financial instruments, but the flow of funds to beneficiaries varied widely. there are countries where not even 40 of these funds have been passed on to the beneficiaries. i think the commission should be more courageous here and recover unused funds. moreover, the question for the future is: do we always reach the right people? if i have to say that 80% of the agricultural funds paid out go to only 20% of the beneficiaries, i think there is a disproportion here which we should address, especially since agriculture is now a good way of making money, as is shown by the constantly rising prices of land for agricultural land. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. in the member states, less than 20% of the administrative bodies were designated and certified, which risks further delaying the implementation of the structural funds, which we are now asked to take stock of at the mid-term review. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am grateful to you and i hope that both reports will not just disappear into the file, but that what has been said by all of you will form the basis for our further work.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european parliament's owninitiative report is intended to highlight a particular cause, issue or region. i think that this objective has been achieved in the own-initiative report on the management of the fishing fleets in the outermost regions. the report calls for better data programmes to be developed, particularly on the state of stocks. better controls are needed to reduce illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the report therefore calls for active measures, such as monitoring, and negotiations with neighbouring countries with which no fisheries partnership agreements have been concluded. these agreements are also intended to take account of the interests of the outermost regions by landing catches in these areas and by giving preference to local people in the employment of fishing vessels. the commission has called for a review of the development of a financial instrument modelled on posei for fisheries in the outermost regions. it is also proposed to increase the aid intensity for new engines. i should like to mention here that the emff already provides for compensation for additional costs, 100% subsidised by the fisheries fund, for these areas, and has been increased compared to the previous fund. the aid intensity for other measures in these areas has also been increased by 35%. member states and outermost regions are encouraged to make the best use of the de minimis and block exemption schemes. synergies between the different european structural and investment funds are to be better illustrated. the report therefore makes a number of proposals to exploit the potential of the fisheries in the outermost regions. some proposals imply an exception for these outermost regions. these are seen as additions to the existing ones. i should now like to comment on the amendment which was the only one tabled and which calls for public financing of new shipbuilding. the committee on fisheries rejected an amendment to this effect - i shall call it the predecessor amendment. i accept that the amendment tabled for the plenary now states that the capacity limits of the common fisheries policy must be respected and that funding can only be provided in exchange for an old vessel. in addition, the maximum sustainable yield that is sought must be achievable. i would also say that the exchange of old and new is already possible today, but without public funds. the authors of the amendment refer to article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. yes, article 349 can be the basis for specific measures in the outermost regions. however, these specific measures must be designed in such a way as not to undermine the coherence and integrity of a common policy. the common fisheries policy and the european maritime and fisheries fund do not allow public funding for new construction. this can all be seen in article 23 of the basic regulation and article 11 of the emff. the amendment calls for the fishing boats to be made safer and more environmentally friendly. the emff already provides money for this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not subject to the same rules as the other sectors, and that the commission is not obliged to take any action to ensure that the fisheries sector is not subject to the same rules. i shall vote against this amendment because it is contrary to the cfp and opens pandora's box. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
mr president, commissioner, i can only support what my predecessors have said. in all the debates, whatever the subject, when we talk about fisheries, the theme is aid to small and artisanal fisheries, and now we have a situation where we can really get involved without much effort. the emff may be able to provide such support, including maintenance and refurbishing, so to speak, i.e. basic refurbishment of fishing vessels. but in some places, these are just small beach boats that don't even have their own engines. but how are they to get from the coastal area to the fisheries where they can get better yields? that's not possible at all. it has already been said: in guadeloupe, in réunion, in such regions, which in principle would not distort competition with the fisheries of continental europe, and that they make such a huge problem of aid out of it, i cannot understand at all. the proposal calls on the commission to examine the possibilities and ensure that the construction of such small fishing vessels is financed. this means that national resources can be used in this area, not just european ones. i can only say that if we want to send a message to small and artisanal fisheries in europe, we should support this proposal.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am aware that some of the most marginal areas are very poor. that is why i have tabled this report. yes, the outermost regions and the conditions for fishing are not comparable to those in continental europe. that is why the common fisheries policy and the emff include exceptions for these areas, that is to say, these exceptions take account of the specific features or i have introduced further specific features or improvements in the report. it is argued that new construction is necessary to reach distant stocks because stocks within 100 nautical miles are depleted or pollution is present. when i was in réunion, i was told that the pollution was caused by pesticides from banana plantations, for example. maybe the national government should do something about it. the fish stocks in the outermost regions are abundant - i would like to believe that. the commission has also proposed that the fishing opportunities for the north sea be increased by a further 10% in the case of the north sea, and that the fishing opportunities for the north sea be increased by a further 10% in the case of the north sea. this was mainly due to the lack of biological data. the data must therefore be improved. that's what the report says now. in the meantime, however, i have to ask myself what public financing of new buildings means in this context. i would now like to close with a question - it is probably a rhetorical question. would the undersigned members who are not from the outermost regions explain to the fishermen in their regions that they are calling for public funding for new construction in remote areas? but not for them, for their fishermen, because they're not that special. i think this is a very big pandora's box, because then other fishermen in the eu can rightly claim public funds for new construction. they too have ships that are 30 to 40 years old and would be happy to receive public funds. that is why i shall be voting against this amendment tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lola sánchez caldentey, and all those involved in the report for the very, very good cooperation. i have already mentioned the german textile alliance in my first speech on development policy in the european parliament. it is a voluntary multi-stakeholder initiative to produce textiles safely and fairly, which has developed positively in recent years. france has now passed a law on the mandatory due diligence in the clothing supply chain. trade policy is european policy. the aim must therefore be to establish such legislation at european level. the new oecd guidelines for responsible supply chains in the apparel and footwear sector of february 2017 should be made mandatory. that is what we are asking for in this report. unfortunately, the eu commission has taken too long to launch the promised flagship initiative for the european clothing industry. the eu commission working document published today can only be a first step. the european parliament is using this report to give impetus to the process of finally adopting legislation on due diligence in the clothing supply chain, four years after the rana plaza accident. this would make possible a much-needed european fashion revolution. the eu institutions and member states should first lead by example and make their own public procurement sustainable and fair. in addition to the report, the eu commission and the european parliament should actively support industriall's act initiative following global collective bargaining in the clothing sector. the clothing supply chain is a perfect example of how to coherently link and make visible the 2030 development goals, such as goal 8 good jobs and livelihoods or goal 12 of responsible production and consumption or goal 5 of gender equality. we have made good progress with this report and now hope that the commission will legislate on it as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all remember the terrible tragedy at rana plaza, and it was unbearable what happened there. but what also became clear was that not cheap is always the problem, there were also some high-priced suppliers who had production there. after the disaster, some colleagues in the european parliament called for a complete boycott of the textile industry in bangladesh. i'm very grateful that we didn't do that back then, because that would have been a disaster for the country. the draft report by my colleague deals a great deal with guidelines, limitations and self-awareness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it does not mention how many jobs have been created in the textile sector alone in developing countries in recent years. it is not mentioned how many formerly disenfranchised and destitute women now have their own income in social security employment in these countries. it is not mentioned that in many countries the textile industry is the first to create development, health care, education, pension insurance and future prospects. and i hope that in all the guidelines we are going to set, we will also bear in mind the importance of good industrial development for the future prospects of these developing countries.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's a few minutes to midnight, the end of a long day's work. and yet there is still an important issue on the agenda. while we are thinking about various issues, behind our backs - without our knowing it or even noticing it - the agricultural land in europe is concentrated more and more in the hands of a few. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. three per cent of farms currently control over 50 per cent of the land in europe. i think that number alone should be enough to illustrate the scale of this extreme situation. the own-initiative report on the state of the concentration of agricultural land in europe and, quite clearly, the second part of the report - namely, how farmers can gain access to land - has been launched. i would like to mention very briefly eight points that we have achieved in the report, and i would first of all like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs very warmly for the exceptionally good cooperation that has been given, which is truly unparalleled. the report clearly states that land is not a normal, tradable commodity. of course we support the four fundamental freedoms in the eu, but land is not a normal, tradable commodity! the report also states that we as the european parliament, but also as the commission, must do everything we can to ensure that the voluntary guidelines are actually implemented in the member states. we must also help the member states to stop the sale of their agricultural land. the term "selling out" refers to selling out by other eu member states or, of course, by third countries. we are clearly asking the commission - and this is one of the key points - to put forward a set of criteria which clearly sets out the criteria for how member states in the eu can protect their countries from being sold off without discrimination. we are clearly stating that there are major problems in the area of corruption. we urge the eu to set up a land market observatory which really acts in a community with clear data and thus provides an overview of how the concentration of agricultural land in the eu continues. we are calling for - and this is very important to me as an spd member of parliament - a clear aim in europe that property dispersion contributes to social stability. property dispersal is not a socialist devil's work, but it brings stability to a society. property dispersion is good and must be supported. we repeat - and this is also an important point - the cornerstones of the european agricultural policy and the cornerstones of the european agricultural model. agricultural policy is more than the production of products - that is important and right, but agricultural policy or the european agricultural model is much more than that - from climate protection to water protection to biodiversity. if we want to support a good european agricultural model, we have to rely on and build on many players. that means we need many farmers, farmers, not just a few. and we clearly point out the connection that the concentration of money in fewer and fewer hands is the same as the concentration of agricultural land in fewer and fewer hands in the eu. the report also makes a clear statement on the future of the eu's agricultural policy. if we continue to believe that we can make our main support in the agricultural sector purely through area support, we find that the way in which area support is provided here in europe is actually a driver in this area. our system of subsidies continues to lead to concentration in the agricultural sector, in the area. that means this is where we do our homework. the commission is clearly in control now. the ball is in the member states' court, because this is a matter which concerns the member states. we as a parliament have made our views clear. i think we shall vote on the report tomorrow by a very large majority. we are rarely so in agreement that the concentration of agricultural land must finally be stopped.
i would like to thank you very much, mr president, and i would also like to thank mrs maria noichl for her report. it has worked very inclusively and openly, working with all the political groups to try to find good compromises - and i think we have found them. it is not disputed that we have a concentration of land in europe, and it is of course also not disputed that legislation on land is in the hands of the nation states, and we are well aware of this. but european policy is playing into this field in various ways. i will just give an example of agricultural policy - it has already been said - regional development, financial and investment policy - all of which have an impact on the question of land: who has access to land, who speculates with land and who tries to use it as an investment asset? but we must be clear that land is not just the basis of life for us farmers, and we farmers produce for this single market. we must all be able to sell in the same market. so it is very important that the european union also sets guidelines here, that we have a starting point for all farmers and that we have protection for the livelihoods not just of farmers but of all of us.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eib is doing good and important work in the field of development aid by promoting investment, by fighting poverty, by promoting growth and infrastructure. this is particularly true when we see that the european parliament is of course also imposing a whole host of additional conditions on the eib in the form of other policy objectives which the eib is faithfully trying to achieve. so, that's very commendable. however, there is certainly room for more focus in the european investment bank's development aid work. there are different ways of funding, and they vary in their effectiveness. we have pointed out in our opinion that microfinance in particular has had a particularly strong impact in terms of jobs. we propose that these micro-credit be further strengthened. i would also be very concerned that a stronger geographical focus could be established in the field of the eib's work. i believe that we must strengthen, promote and stabilise our southern and eastern mediterranean neighbours, particularly from the eu's point of view. we are facing great challenges. it would certainly be in the interest of this parliament to devote more resources and to open up more avenues of support.
i have to say, madam president, mr hoyer, you have received a great deal of praise today, with a few exceptions, and i think you are right. the eib is the world's largest multilateral lender and has made a significant contribution to the world by being a practical lender. last year i had the opportunity to co-author an opinion on behalf of the epp in the econ committee, and today i can note further positive trends. i think the important thing is that in difficult economic times, in times of weakness, you are a key institution in the provision of credit. in addition to investment volume and returns, a very precise future scenario of the customers is developed. i would like to reiterate my call for the promotion of competitive and dynamic smes with ambition. they'll do it. but i think we need to put emphasis on that. i believe that this is the reason why cooperation with regional institutions should be further improved. i believe that this approach is a strengthening of economic and social cohesion in the eu.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank mr dijsselbloem, and i am happy he finally made it to our plenary. welcome. today we talk about greece once again, and once again we talk about budget cuts. the eurogroup that you chair, mr dijsselbloem, is insisting on yet another round of cuts: of cuts to pensions, and of taxing people who have as little as eur 500 a month in their pocket. these measures will continue to suffocate the recovery in greece and will also increase social disruption, but nevertheless the greek government is actually doing what you wanted it to do. it is delivering all those things; it does its ‘homework’, as you like to call it, despite the most horrific social cuts. it is time to acknowledge that, and it is time to give greece some time to breathe and to actually do the long-term reforms that we really need and that are really necessary. but we also shouldn’t forget the other side: it’s also the eurogroup that must deliver. it’s actually you, mr dijsselbloem, who has to do his homework. where is the debt relief that was already agreed for greece in may 2016? where is the end of the austerity paradigm that has brought so much suffering and very little success? what have you done as chair of the eurogroup, together with your fellow finance ministers, to end tax avoidance and tax evasions? by letting big companies avoid taxes, we lose eur 70 billion euros each year, and that’s roughly half of the eu’s annual budget – money that we very much need to invest into europe’s future. we cannot be tough when it comes to cuts for poorer people and be lenient when it comes to the tax avoidance of big companies. frankly, i think the europeans deserve a change of that policy. let me also say something a little more personal, because i actually don’t believe that this was colourful language which you have used, mr dijsselbloem. it is nice that you say you did not want to insult southern countries. very nice, but you still don’t understand that with your statement you have insulted half of the european union population – all the women in this house, all the women everywhere in the european union – because you say that women are an object that you either buy or spend money on. this is unacceptable, and i don’t understand how you cannot even see that there is a problem. this has brought about a lot of problems – a loss of credibility to the european institutions, to us, to the commission, to you and to the council, and this is now your legacy that you have to deal with. i find this unacceptable. shame on you, mr dijsselbloem, for disrespecting half of europe’s population.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr dijsselbloem, it is good that you are here this morning, and i respect your statement. i would like to return to the substance of the debate, in which you have quite a few supporters here in this house for your course and the course of the euro group. my group, the epp, is once again very concerned about the current developments in greece. the greek government is playing with fire again, betting on last-minute concessions. i want to make this clear: debates on further debt relief are not only contractually impossible, but they will not fix the problem at its root: focusing on debt relief alone is misleading. argentina has gone into state insolvency with a debt burden of around 60%. japan is still in the markets with a debt burden of about 250%. fundamental reform of the economy, labour markets and pension systems, measures to increase competitiveness and effective privatisation are what is essential and will remain essential for the future. we need an honest change of policy in greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not a good basis for successfully completing the overdue review. i therefore appeal to you to complete the review as quickly and as competently as possible, applying the law in force precisely.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. dijsselbloem, how nice of you to do us the honor. we missed you. i do not want to say too much about the situation in greece, the main points are well known. mr balz himself has given an example of japan and argentina, showing why it is completely insane to concentrate solely on reducing the public debt by cutting government expenditure. your recent economic analyses were very impressive to attribute the problems of southern europe to too much alcohol and women! because my colleague nils torvalds has called for a little humor. if that qualifies you for the post of head of the eurogroup, please tell me where to apply for the job. i do not want to talk about the matter. the dutch have thrown you out of the race with about 5%, and austerity was also a programme to destroy social democracy in europe - see france for example. but you did not mention that the euro rescue was also a rescue of northern european banks, not to mention the dutch tax tricks of corporations, with which finance ministers like you are grabbing the wallets of europeans. the eurozone needs public investment and democratic control of the eurogroup. you justified your attacks on southern europe with calvinism. so i have a christian advice for you: go, but go with god, man!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened to you, mr moscovici, mr president of the euro group, mr dijsselbloem, i have listened to you. and if i'm to believe what you both say, and i do, then the problem of secondary verification is actually solved. i wonder, then, why so many days, weeks and months are wasted in trying to bring about a real improvement in the interests of the country. that is why, mr dijsselbloem, we have invited you to come to this house in december. we have the impression that games are being played in the eurogroup - games that have nothing to do with greece, games that have nothing to do with the eurozone and not with the economy in the european union, but much more often with some elections in other member states and with the maintenance of the prevailing view that the greeks are a people who allegedly do not want reforms and allegedly do not want to work effectively. i say to you, mr dijsselbloem, the eurogroup has a problem because it speaks with divided tongues. how can it be that you say that the homework is done and the german finance minister declares in public that the greeks have not even completed half of the reforms that are needed? this double-talk is one of the reasons why confidence in the eurozone is waning. this double-talk is one of the reasons why people are also becoming increasingly anti-european, and it is your job to ensure that the eurogroup speaks the truth and helps to solve problems in a decent way. what you really lack is effective democratic control, parliamentary control. we are very much in favour of the need for an esm which takes over the functions of an economic fund. we are very much of the opinion that the commission must have a say in this, but you need parliamentary support to make your language clear.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with mr bullmann. what we've heard here today was another fairy tale lesson. greece is on a difficult path. but it's moving forward, it's getting better, and it's gonna be even better tomorrow. the imf also accuses the commission and the authorities of making overly optimistic forecasts. i had it checked out. the commission has not made a single correct growth forecast in the last ten years. what are you doing? what are you doing? they do health betrayal by the coué method: i am well, i will be better tomorrow and better the day after. it's not going anywhere. the imf said that this very health improvement is making the problems in greece worse because they are not able to reach a debt-bearing capacity. and then you stand up and say, "success is the primary surplus". any financial scientist knows that can be manipulated. what you're doing is you're wasting the future potential of the economy because there's no more investment, because there's no more bills being paid, and you're still proud of that. and the imf went on to say that it had once put the issue of leaving the euro on the agenda, but that all those in charge had not wanted to hear about it. what kind of politics is this? politics is all about looking the other way. this cannot be the help for europe and the eurozone. you really need to know what the problems are. and what must be done for greece? it's just that everybody knows it when they think about it. the triangle: exit from the euro, profits and economic recovery, debt repayment and start-up financing. it is necessary. but is this parliament discussing it? parliament is a check? no, this is not a parliament taking over the commission. it is not a question of maintaining a misguided monetary construction. it is important to take care of the people of europe. that's our job!
i have to say, madam president, mr moscovici, i want to speak to you directly. the recent changes to the tax and pension memorandum will again unilaterally unload needed reforms on the most vulnerable. this means that, in turn, people with lower pensions as well as those with lower incomes will be burdened by further reform measures. they promised to submit each memorandum to a social impact study. are you going to deliver this now, or are you going to shy away from this commitment? and to you, mr dijsselbloem, i would like to say just one thing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means the weakening of european democracy. mr bullmann has raised it. we need european institutions, the eurogroup, under full democratic control, including the european parliament. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be possible to do so. i do not imagine that the president of the eurogroup would be democratically accountable!
i have to say, madam president, mr. dishwasher! yesterday, prime minister orbán pointed out that 10 years ago, the economy of the non-euro country of hungary was at about the same level as that of greece. today, however, hungary is in a much better position than greece - higher growth, lower unemployment and, above all, less new debt. and that, mr dijsselbloem, is not just true for hungary, it is true for all the non-euro countries of the european union. have you ever wondered why? these countries have remained responsible for themselves. the euro has made institutions in greece, such as the imf, the commission, the ecb, merkel and schäuble, take responsibility. and not only that: now responsibility for government debt, for bank debt and, of course, for unemployment insurance is to be shared throughout the eurozone. instead of just giving hungary advice, we should also learn something from hungary, and that is: if we all take responsibility for everything, no one takes responsibility anymore.
i have to say, madam president, there was an amendment to my report and i rejected it. i explained my reasons for this yesterday in the plenary. in summary, i do not think that this amendment is in line with the current common fisheries policy. however, since the report contains useful information, i abstained from voting on the resolution instead of voting against it. i could not vote for the report in this case because in my original draft i had made a division: what is possible under the current cfp and what should be considered in a potential future cfp? this division was voted down in the committee on fisheries. this means that public support is now to be guaranteed under the current cfp. i believe that the support provided under article 349 of the labour convention undermines the coherence of this common policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the report raises many questions. we are now examining how well the control and reporting systems for irregularities and fraud work, and looking at the report, you rub your eyes. the number of irregularity reports doubled to 81% more damage in four years , but fraud cases decreased by 26% over the same period. well, believe it or not, i don't. i mean, the question is, how closely are we looking? how exactly do we know? commissioner, you yourself have mentioned that the commission also finds this strange and is concerned for the first time about the comparatively low number of notifications. how will the conflict of interests of the member states be overcome? if member states report fraud, they must repay the funds received. there is already a very strong disincentive to report fraud, and the figures available to me do not allow me to come to any other conclusion than the attitude 'we just close our eyes and do not report it'. it is also unacceptable that different interpretations of reporting practices lead to different assessments of what constitutes fraud and what constitutes irregularity. so the commission should go much further, and you should also be much more concerned with the question of the harmonization of reporting systems! i am concerned that every year we take note of the figures, and no one is interested in what the figures actually turn out to be. this year will be different . we'll arrange for a follow-up. we also ask how efficient olaf is. if you look at the numbers closely, the cases of recommendations have not changed over many years. until the olaf monitoring committee has genuine access to closed cases to address the question of olaf's efficiency, nothing will change. i think these are large construction sites and it would be good if the commission did something about them. i am also concerned that 75% of all fraud is detected by administrative checks. this is not a success story, as 25% are not detected by administrative checks but by chance. that is a staggering number. here too, urgent action is needed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report contains many shocking facts and figures. but these should not only make us shout: we need more controls, we need stricter controls. we should also reflect on how this can happen. and a very good way to prevent mistakes and also to prevent fraud is, of course, to also think about: what is this eu responsible for? is it really responsible for everything that makes sense? do all the rules make sense? rules that you don't need to follow won't be broken. we must therefore think very hard about this: can we not demand more subsidiarity? then there's no need for a lot of rules. we in the ecr group also see no point in introducing a european public prosecutor. i do not think that this will lead to more transparency, nor will it lead to more cases being opened, but we will see that a european prosecutor will have great problems differentiating himself from national prosecutors.
the commission has already done so. my dear group of visitors! we are talking about fraud against the eu budget today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. the irregularities increased by some 6 000 cases - more than a third. the commission says that the number of irregularities has increased because the eu budget has increased. and now the commission and parliament and some member states - including germany - want to introduce a european public prosecutor to fight fraud. a prosecutor for a state that doesn't exist and that we don't want. my solution is a little simpler and better: less redistribution, less irregularity, less fraud. that is why we should cut the eu budget to what can only be managed by the eu in a meaningful way: for example, mutual aid in the event of natural disasters, but no permanent redistribution and no subsidies.
i have to say, madam president, the eqf for lifelong learning is an important tool to promote the mobility of learners and the labour force. in 2006, as an eqf rapporteur, i was able to achieve the establishment of equal opportunities between vocational and academic education. we wanted copenhagen to be given the same value as bologna. the comparability of knowledge, skills and competences should be strongly improved. eight levels of education have been established, covering the entire spectrum of education. unfortunately, the content has not yet been sufficiently implemented in the member states. we therefore rightly ask the european commission to what extent we can achieve a concretisation of eqfs, to what extent there can be in many cases better cooperation between training providers and national authorities. i think it is important to preserve the specific features of the national systems. the german experience has shown that our dual training is future-proof and that our master's degree is not an obstacle to be overcome in the internal market, but has been an example of competence and quality for decades. the reforms we are seeking will hopefully simplify, harmonise and improve the eqf and ecvet instruments. let us reduce bureaucracy and increase flexibility. we in the employment policy see this as a european added value and an inspiration.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 may 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs biljana borzan, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the initiative on resource efficiency: reducing food waste, improving food safety (2016/2223 (ini)) (a8-0175/2017).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today's topic, "food waste", is an urgent issue that concerns us all. 53% of food waste comes from households. in this context, it should also be borne in mind that not all of us in europe live in total abundance. some 55 million europeans cannot afford even a full meal every other day. however, to illustrate: each european throws away almost two kilos of food a week, and the same amount of waste is generated up the food chain. the european union has declared war on this waste. the aim is to halve food waste by 2030. the commission has not yet developed the basic instruments for this, commissioner. the report therefore calls for a uniform definition and measurement methods to be introduced as soon as possible. this is the foundation on which we can shape action. so far we have 29 regulations, 10 directives, 14 documents covering at least seven policy areas. you have mentioned it. two issues are particularly close to my heart. firstly, consumers are the key to success, so we need to raise awareness of the problem, put nutrition education back on the front line and make important information more accessible to consumers. one of the things we need to do is to understand more about durability. i shall just mention the two keywords: expiry date and expiry date. of course, we can rely more on new media and reach the younger generation better. secondly, we must simplify food donations. what this means to me is that we need to look at the stakeholders in the food chain as part of the solution, not as the cause of the problem. it is up to us to create a positive framework for donations and thereby activate voluntary commitment. the present report is an important step in this direction. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. we have rarely been so closed in an owninitiative report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very pleased that the report makes it very clear that we need a very specific waste hierarchy for food waste, with the ultimate goal of avoiding and reducing it first. i would like to bring up another aspect which has not been discussed today: the question of the future of the community. the committee on agriculture has made a strong call for investment in the energy use of food waste and for additional sources of income for farmers. i am glad that the environment committee has not given in to these urges. energy recovery can be an option, but only if it is done under clearly defined conditions. we have ignored this in germany, for example. not only have they developed large biogas plants, which then invest in residual materials like manure or fodder and bring them in, but they're growing corn, and 10 percent of our land is now going into pure energy use, and, i think, energy use has to be at the end of this waste hierarchy. because we cannot turn this use into a business model. first, people have to get the food, and then we can give it to the animals and the environment, and finally, energy.
the commission has already done so. food waste in the eu is reaching increasingly absurd proportions, currently around 88 million tonnes per year. what a scandal! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the present crisis. but in view of the 800 million or so people who suffer from hunger and the millions of children who die every year as a result of malnutrition, it is our duty to create the legal framework for greater corporate responsibility, for consumer awareness at national and european level. but that's not enough. we need to take urgent action on the production side, because we are simply producing far too much food. we now need not only cosmetic corrections in the forthcoming cap reform, but a fundamental rethinking of the area of subsidized overproduction. we need a paradigm shift in agricultural policy. it must finally be based on an ethical foundation and not just on a profit-oriented one. i would ask you, commissioner, to make a statement in your circle of colleagues. i thank you for that already.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is right to try to do something about food waste. food is a precious commodity, and when food is wasted, it is incredibly expensive, because we are not just wasting a particular food, but everything that has been put into the cultivation, the production of that food: soil, water and of course energy, fertilisers, spraying, etc. but it is not only expensive, it is also harmful to the environment. because it's bad for the climate if we produce a lot more than we ultimately consume, because we throw away a lot of that production. and it's of course a highly ethical concern, especially given the fact that the world's population is growing so fast, the amount of land available for agriculture is not increasing, and we have to think about how we can use the land we have to feed the world and not just ourselves. the problem we have when we deal with the question of 'how do we avoid food waste?' is that there is no valid international definition - not in europe, and obviously not internationally either. and until such a definition is in place, it may be very, very difficult to determine how much of this food waste is the individual's share of the food chain. we must be careful not to confuse the loss of agricultural production with waste. there are inevitable crop losses, and there are also almost inevitable stock losses from insects, from fungi. the use of genetic engineering could certainly be used to cope with this. but that is not what the majority of europeans really want. and of course, you can't process 100% of a fruit or vegetable in processing either. there is always waste there too, and that too is more to be attributed to loss than to waste. but one thing is clear: the main polluter is actually us, the consumers. i count myself among them. we are not sacrosanct, and we are not always the victims. we have to realize that the expiration date doesn't mean i have to throw the food away. that's what the expiration date is for. but there is no information on this, and that is what our member states are called upon to do at home. but we also need to have information at home in the member states about the value of a foodstuff as such. because of the urbanization of our society, including in europe, we no longer have access to the real value of food. food is valuable. many people in the world who are not well know this. but we forgot. i call on the member states to take action and to teach children again the value of food.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments and for the importance they attach to the external aspects of customs performance and management as a tool to facilitate trade and fight illicit trade. i believe that our two institutions share the same objectives of wishing to have a strong customs policy, which is to first facilitate and accelerate legitimate trade and at the same time have efficient controls on the ground which ensure the safety and security of citizens, making sure of stopping fake or dangerous goods, drugs, explosives and arms from entering the eu market. i would like to underline that the commission recognises the importance of the external dimension of customs policy. in the recently published reflection paper on harnessing globalisation, further investment in eu customs risk management is seen as one of the means of responding to the challenges of globalisation and ensuring a level playing field. i would like to address some of the points made during the debate. it is true that further work is needed, particularly with regard to strengthening cooperation at all levels, with economic operators, with member states, with trading partners and also internally with other eu agencies and commission services. but i can assure you this remains top on our agenda. the commission will also endeavour to cooperate with other law enforcement administrations in order to achieve a harmonised and integrated control approach. this is the only way to both ensure the safety and security of citizens and to protect the financial interests of the eu. we should also remember that customs intelligence is also invaluable to law enforcement authorities and security agencies and should be fully explored. finally, i would like to confirm the commission’s commitment to continue to cooperate closely with the parliament so as to ensure that eu customs policies indeed are effective, proportionate and fit for purpose.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you for the good and very constructive cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs and all those who contributed to the report. as rapporteur, i very much welcome the commission's new egovernment action plan for 2016 to 2020. with our vote tomorrow, we as a parliament are sending an important signal that we want to support and promote the digitisation of public administration and public institutions. with this report we call on the member states to make the public sector sustainable. our aim must be to modernise administrative procedures and to remove bureaucratic obstacles at all levels. in the age of digitization, the internet has become an indispensable part of our daily lives. the development of electronic services and the accessibility of public online services is therefore essential to improve and make more efficient services for citizens, but also for businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. digitalisation makes it possible to make new forms of public services more accessible and to ensure that there are no barriers to access. a central access portal, which allows citizens and businesses to access all information and administrative services across borders, is a very important step. another element is the once-only principle, whereby citizens and businesses enter their data once and do not have to re-enter the same information over and over again. this can greatly simplify the work of the authorities and also greatly facilitate cooperation between different bodies. further progress is also needed in the electronic award of public contracts in the member states. this can reduce red tape and increase transparency and efficiency in procurement. the implementation and further development of electronic signature systems and the development of standards to enable interoperability and portability of data sets are also important. this requires greater cooperation between public authorities at all levels. this can lead to a significant increase in the efficiency of public services. in all our efforts to promote the digitisation of public administrations, we must not forget that not all europeans have equal access to the internet or the necessary digital skills or the necessary trust in digital offerings to use online public administration services. therefore, the deployment of broadband, especially in rural areas, is a prerequisite for the progress that is being sought in the egovernment action plan. we must provide citizens and businesses with adequate access to the internet so that they can participate in the new forms of electronic governance. in addition, digital skills must be promoted through training and education. these skills need to be developed especially in public sector employees, who are often not so-called digital natives. as long as citizens need personal assistance in their dealings with the authorities and administrative tasks, these services should also be provided alongside online services, so that this can continue to be possible in both online and offline approaches, because we cannot leave any citizen behind. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. however, it is essential that data protection is also consistently guaranteed in general, especially in the handling of sensitive and personal data. this can increase trust in online services and encourage more people to contact their jobs through these channels. the egovernment action plan is an important step towards unlocking the potential of digitalisation in public administrations and services, improving cooperation and efficiency, thus making services more transparent and better for citizens and businesses, and reducing bureaucratic hurdles.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have been working together with us, across the whole house, on making this resolution work. it shows how united parliament is in calling for solidarity both among member states and also with refugees. i would also like to thank the commission, and the commissioner especially, for again and again emphasising the fact that this solidarity needs to be shown: that this relocation needs to be made to happen. relocation is a very important tool for solidarity, but it is also a very important humanitarian tool. it obviously helps members states which have received a lot of refugees, and it helps the refugees finally to find a place of safety and a place where they can build a new future. but i would go so far as to say it gives a great opportunity to member states which have not yet had much experience with refugees. they will get support from the commission, they will gain experience and, in terms of accommodation, it will be a situation in which they know when the refugees are coming, and which refugees are coming – which is not the situation that any member state could face at some point in the future. therefore, it is very disappointing that the council is not present here today because the problem, obviously, is not with the people speaking here today: the problem lies with the member states and, as colleagues have pointed out, the problem is not one of capacity, the problem is not one of how we shall do this, it is purely a problem of political will. there is a scandalous lack of political will. we are talking here about people who are fleeing from war and persecution, and we are talking about unaccompanied minors: those are the people who are mainly stuck in italy and greece. how horrible can that be: to leave unaccompanied children alone, in overcrowded conditions without any possibility of a safe future? i very much welcome the fact that the commission has said it will take action, insofar as possible, against those member states which are doing nothing. yes, relocation does not solve all the problems in the world. yes, we still need a good dublin system that puts solidarity in place. yes, we do need common rules, legal access, etcetera, but relocation is a first step: a first step that will show how serious we are about our business.
i have to say, madam president, the migration crisis shows in a tragic way that things are not working in the eu. we are seeing these problems very closely here, and unfortunately it is the poor who are being blamed. whatever their reasons for migrating, they all have one. the eu started as a citizen's project, and what have the majority groups in this parliament made of it? you've turned it into a brain project! theoretical solutions are being devised which do not work in practice because they are not accepted by the public and in some member states. so we have to stop coming up with theoretical solutions that just don't work. we must rely on voluntary action, we must rely on cooperation and then also on the respect of agreements. i think it is very populist that some people in this house are now saying that we should impose penalties if we do not respect the agreements. where are these penalties being imposed when it comes to the euro crisis? everyone says no, no punishment. we have to stick to what we agreed on.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. you 're right , of course . globalization is a blessing for mankind. the countries that are excluded from it are doing much worse economically than the countries that participate in it. we see this for example in cuba or north korea or, more recently, in venezuela. let us not forget that globalisation is not only taking away goods, capital and services, but also values, ideas, human rights and democracy. that's right! the supposed losers of globalization, like countries in africa, suffer because globalization passes them by, they don't suffer from globalization. i therefore think that we should stop looking at europe from the navel and look at the whole world. a beautiful portuguese song just won the european song contest, but it's not european. our european companies have also been thinking nationally and globally for a long time, but not in a european way. have you heard of a european car market? i don't know him. there's a japanese car market, a german car market, an american car market, a british car market. so let us stop further deepening the european union and work towards completing and extending the internal market, and let us invite the united kingdom to join us right from the start!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the term 'globalization' describes a production method in which very large companies define the final product and build internationally optimized production and value chains. let 's be clear . they are people whose destinies are bound up in these work processes. one hundred and fifty years ago, karl marx wrote in capital about the need to adapt the production relations to the development of the productive forces. we need to take care of the quality of life of all people along the value chain and create the regulatory framework for this. this applies to workers' rights, human rights, the protection of nature in production. this is also true of taxes and thus of the fair contribution to the common good from an economic chain. we need to introduce a broad duty of care for products entering the eu market. the person who wants to make the most profit at the end of a chain must take responsibility for the conditions of production. i very much appreciate the commission's emphasis in its paper on the new sustainable development goals as a benchmark. we must put that in our legislation and standards. sustainable development defines the framework for economic development everywhere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. globalization is happening, and you can either get right with it, or you can get right with it. we're seeing a country in the world that's not doing that, and that's north korea. the people of north korea are in such a bad way because of the man-hating dictator, but also because the country is completely isolated and the people have no access to international goods and benefits. so if we want to be part of globalization, we have to create globalization. that is precisely what we have been doing as the european union for a long time. our companies benefit: cars, champagne, vegetables, fashion, all kinds of products produced in europe, we sell them all over the world, and on the other hand our citizens, our consumers, benefit from a huge offer from all over the world. if you take a moment to reflect on what you have bought in the last few days and weeks and where it has come from, you will know very well that globalization is something that, if done right, can have very great benefits. what we really need is a regulated globalisation. we should also think together about how to get rid of some of the misunderstandings we have about our terms. we usually call our agreements free trade agreements. but the subject of opening up markets is only a small part of our agreements today. in general, our agreements are agreements to regulate globalisation, to regulate trade relations, to enforce our standards and to address the concerns and needs of our citizens. i would like to see the commission and the council working together to develop our trade policy.
the commission has already done so. it's quite clear that we're at the beginning of a debate about globalization how we can manage globalization fairly. i think it is good that the commission is also pursuing an integrated approach, taking account of the external and internal dimensions, although i see a certain imbalance between points three and four, that the external dimensions are being given more attention and that the internal dimensions could certainly be developed a little further. the commission has already made a number of proposals. and the question that we now want to not only break down trade barriers and then let the world run its course, but to set rules, that is explicitly stated, and i think that is right and good. it is also right that the european court of justice today in its judgment on the singapore agreement said that sustainable development, workers' rights and environmental standards are an essential part of trade policy and that their observance must also be taken as a benchmark for further steps and this must have consequences for future trade agreements.
mr president, first of all let me also say that i very much welcome that the commission has come up with such a reflection paper. this is because i think it is the first time that the commission is actually also acknowledging there are problems around globalisation. i think that is a very good thing. it is a very good start. unfortunately, we see little action, let us say, in the paper. there are a lot of very important words, like realising concerns and pointing out the right problems. that is all very nice and very fair, but i think – as colleagues have also said – that we should move forward to action. we need concrete things. in other reflection papers there was more concrete action – we would say not enough, but there was some – but i think here, on globalisation, concrete action is missing. let me mention some areas where i think we can move to direct action. firstly, to end the race to the bottom between member states when it comes to workers’ rights. let us think about posted workers. i think it is very important that we safeguard the rights of all workers inside the european union. let us also review trade agreements. it is possible to do them in such a way that benefits european union citizens as well as the citizens in our partner countries, but for that we really need to change the way in which we do trade agreements at the moment. we also need to lead the fight against climate change. we should not wait for others to follow the path or maybe also do something, but we need to be more ambitious in targeting the reduction of co2 emissions, because we have no time to waste. if we lose our planet, there is not a second one we can go to. we also need to get serious about fighting tax avoidance and tax evasion – because i think those are key issues when it comes to social justice – by making sure that big companies which greatly profit from globalisation pay their due share and making sure that we can also afford investment, for example in education, good social services and sustainable jobs. i think here the european union can really do something, because no nation state can deal with those issues alone. we need the european union, but we also need to make sure that we do concrete things.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you very much, and i apologise for the delay. we had a longer-than-expected college meeting and i apologise for that. i am particularly glad that we have the opportunity to again share in this hemicycle the work we are doing on syria – especially today, as the un has reconvened the talks: intra-syrian talks in geneva just started this morning. i spoke just a couple of hours ago with staffan de mistura again, the un special envoy, who has this morning concluded the first renewed round of talks with the syrian parties, for a new round aiming at entering into the substance of the political transition, including on constitutional setup. this is the process on which and in which the european union is investing, supporting the intra-syrian talks, the un facilitation and the work of the syrian opposition, the civil society, especially the women of syria – work that we support every day with our teams, both in geneva and in brussels, but also in the region. so the european union has a special role to play, to help the syrian people end the war in their country. the european union is not a military actor in syria. i know some might argue that this makes us a less powerful player in the region. even if, as you know well, i always value a lot whenever we manage or we decide to use also our hard power in some situations that require this, i strongly believe that the fact that we are not a military player in the syrian crisis makes us stronger in the political context of trying to solve the problem and the crisis there, exactly because we have not taken part in the devastation of the country, and at the same time we have been on the side of the civilian population, all through the war, as the first humanitarian donor for syrians both within and outside the country. exactly for this reason, we have a stronger role to play when it comes to the political mediation and solution. first of all, let me stress one basic thing that sometimes we take for granted, but i think in these times we are living, it is definitely not something that is irrelevant: we are the ones contributing to the humanitarian work inside syria and around syria. we are the ones bringing aid through the un agencies and international organisations; trying to save every single life; trying to bring every single child to school; trying to guarantee the minimum basic living conditions for syrians. this is something i will always be proud of. some might consider that realpolitik goes as far as making this irrelevant. let me tell you that the basic condition – not only of humanity from my perspective, but also for the political future of syria – is that there are some syrians left. i am sorry, this is very hard to say, but our work of saving lives on the ground, guaranteeing that people have humanitarian aid, medical assistance, food, water – basic, basic living conditions – is first a humanitarian duty, and second it is also a major political asset, also to be a recognised, trusted, political actor for the parties. it is precious: so precious that to me it is invaluable. because we have not destroyed, because we help life, we can better help the syrians rebuild the future of the country. and this is something that not only the international community, not only the region, but also and first of all, the syrians recognise to the european union. this is the core of the european union’s strategy on syria, adopted by the council on 3 april, with conclusions endorsing my joint communication with the commission. this is our answer to anyone who believes – as i was saying – that we are powerless because we are not shooting. it is exactly the contrary. the entire european union is united behind the goal of a political solution to the war and the means to achieve it. it demonstrates what we can do in practice to end this war and ensure that lives are protected, rights respected, democratic aspirations and needs are met. in the strategy we outlined a clear set of objectives: seeking a political solution to the conflict within the un framework; supporting the opposition – including the high negotiation committee – to develop their proposal for a meaningful and inclusive transition; and in parallel, as i said, working to save lives, to promote human rights, to strengthen civil society, the role of women, to promote accountability for war crimes – that is extremely important, and i will come back to that – and to support the resilience of the syrian people. the strategy indicates the direction of our actions. it is not a philosophical paper; it is a road map for acting together. two days after it was endorsed, we have begun to put it into practice: hosting the major international ministerial conference on syria in brussels, together with the secretary-general of the united nations. we brought together 80 delegations from countries and international organisations from the region and the entire world, raising more than nine billion euros until 2020, including eur 5.6 billion for 2017 alone. there was a risk of the international community being disrupted – of having a sort of donors’ fatigue when it comes to the support to syrians, and i was glad to see that we managed to mobilise more resources than last year in london. this is important; it makes a difference to the lives of the people on the ground. but again, as i said, it makes a difference also for the un and our support to the un system – another political objective which is very dear in our hearts and minds in this period of time, and it strengthens the possibility for political work to be done in geneva. more than two thirds of this amount comes from the european union and the member states. so, once again, we are throwing a lifeline to millions of syrians, inside the country and in the region, building in this way the basic conditions for the future of syria, the survival of syrians. as you might remember, on the eve of the brussels conference, a terrible chemical attack hit idlib’s province, and i do not believe this was a complete coincidence. normally, as the international community gathers to work for peace and show unity, and determination and commitment, the enemies of peace tried to derail its efforts. but that very same day, from brussels, from the european union, from the un, from so many countries and organisations, we sent two powerful messages. first, we all agreed that those responsible for these crimes must be held accountable. and last week, exactly one week ago, on europe’s day, 9 may, in new york, i was briefing the un security council and sharing with them the fact that the european union fully stands behind the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons in its investigations: this is the right forum to document any responsibilities for the use of chemical weapons in syria. the brussels conference also made a call for support to the new ‘international, impartial and independent mechanism’, established by the un general assembly, which will assist in investigating and prosecuting war crimes cases in syria. accountability for us is key. second, in brussels we all committed to work for a political solution agreed among the syrian parties as the only just but also the only realistic way to end the war. accountability and the need to support a political solution and to be serious about that: these were also the main messages we heard from the representatives of the syrian civil society – syrian women – during the brussels conference. together with the third word we heard a very powerful word from them: hudna, hudna, hudna. they were repeating it to us, and this means ‘we need a ceasefire’. we need violence to decrease and peace to reach some areas of the country. for three days, around the brussels conference, over 40 syrians from all parts of syria and from the diaspora, representatives of civil society organisations with very different backgrounds, women and men, different ages, worked to agree on a set of common messages for the conference. their representatives delivered their messages to the ministers in the political session. we have immediately turned into practice the strategy’s recognition of the civil society’s crucial role, and i know this parliament is particularly supportive of that – rightly so. these are the people who can reach across the conflict lines, talk to each other, heal the wounds of over six years of war, to make reconciliation truly possible on the ground, locally. and the expertise they hold will also be essential to post-conflict reconstruction. in fact, let me say the syrians who came to brussels from within and outside of syria, different parts of the country, agreed very much with our determination to begin preparations for the day after the end of the conflict. because too many times – too many times – the international community, and also europe, was not prepared for winning the peace after a war had ended. it is a mistake that we cannot afford anymore; syria and the syrians cannot afford that mistake. of course, reconstruction will only begin when a political transition will be under way, not before. this is in the hands of the syrian talks in geneva under the un auspices that the european union is accompanying day by day. but the european union has already started to engage and to contribute to the post-agreement planning, in close cooperation with the united nations and the world bank. also because this can be a very powerful tool, maybe one of the most powerful tools today, to support and accompany the political process, showing the peace dividend, being an incentive to the syrian parties to find and implement an agreement. the same logic marks our syria strategy: we do not try to bet on the future, but to prepare for it and contribute to shaping it, together with the un, together with the powers of the region, but most of all, with the people of syria. because peace can only come from the syrian people, from a political solution agreed by the syrian parties. this is the most complex and the most violent conflict in our times, and it is clear, i think, by now to all in the world that no regional or global power alone has the strength to solve it. we need forces to join along one line, which is a political solution agreed by the syrian parties in geneva under the un auspices. all different initiatives – and we wish that all of them manage to deliver and to be implemented, including the ones taken in astana – now have the big responsibility to converge towards geneva, to help the syrians build peace and find their own path towards national reconciliation. and there are no shortcuts for that. we have seen it for six years: geneva, the un process, the multilateral framework, these intra-syrian talks are and must remain the only way to transition. as i said today, staffan de mistura has resumed the talks with a clear intention of entering into the substance of the transition, starting from the constitutional set-up of the country. the european union stands there in geneva, as well as the work we do in brussels and in the region, to accompany the un, their work, to accompany the syrian people for a democratic, united and inclusive syria to finally bring peace to the country and to our entire region.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr. tannock, how do you know the news from the state department is accurate? it was the american secretary of state colin powell who, during the iraq war, spread lies about war crimes: genocide, he presented photos of weapons of mass destruction that did not exist at all. colin powell says today, "i regret, i sleep like a baby, every two hours i wake up screaming". don't you know all this?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. yes, in short, i asked you how you can be sure that you are hearing the truth from the us state department. because colin powell, the then us secretary of state during the iraq war, was the one who also told us fake images of weapons of mass destruction, of the genocide in kuwait and so on. today he says he regrets it and he sleeps like a baby today and wakes up screaming at night.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, the honourable member, mrs mogherini, is here to give you a statement. you have pointed out: today, another round of the syrian peace talks begins in geneva. but the expectations of a breakthrough this time around are still very low. however, there is reason for cautious hope in the astana agreement initiated by russia, which provides for the creation of so-called de-escalation zones. the eu must now work to involve the un security council in monitoring these zones, in particular with a view to sending a blue helmet mission there. the astana process can certainly be a helpful complement to the peace process. of course, the united nations must remain the main force for a peaceful solution. it is good that the eu wants to promote a national reconciliation process in syria and expects and demands that those responsible for war crimes and human rights violations be held to account. all eu member states must be involved politically and financially. i call on the eu member states to give appropriate support to the mechanism for the investigation of war crimes in syria, which was adopted by the un in december. reconciliation and accountability for war crimes are essential to a peaceful future. i also call on syrian civil society - both in syria and in exile - to play a full role in shaping the future of their country. the eu should especially support those who are committed to human rights, women's equality and the building of democratic structures.i strongly welcome the eu's continued strong contribution to humanitarian aid in the region, which is urgently needed. but i also want to emphasize that refugees from syria are generously welcomed into resettlement programs in the eu, and that we are providing legal pathways for these victims of war to find adequate protection in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must note that in consultation with syria, iran, turkey and russia, four safe zones were established in syria last saturday. i visited syria in 2015 and 2016, and in the last 12 months, we can -- we have to -- we can actually see that peace has returned to large parts of syria. from latakia to damascus, from aleppo to palmyra and homs, there is peace today. government forces have recaptured a total of over 1,000 towns, villages and communities. how about a new approach to the eu, a relocation plan, just the other way around? now to ask the millions of refugees to return to their homes, and to give countries that have many refugees a quota system, and for each refugee who does not return, to provide a special payment to help the people there in syria rebuild, instead of constantly delivering weapons to those areas?
mr president, first of all i would like to join the previous speakers in expressing my distress over the massive destruction and human suffering in syria, including the recent chemical attack and the ongoing bombing and starving of civilians. that is why i absolutely have no understanding for what my colleague, mr voigt, just said about the current situation in syria. i welcome the syria strategy presented by the high representative and vice-president, because it calls for a comprehensive political solution in syria through stronger eu involvement and reconstruction efforts. as suggested by the high representative, once a political settlement has been achieved, the eu could offer vital support during the transition process by assisting a newly-formed government in drafting a new constitution and organising free and fair elections. the experience of iraq has shown how easily power vacuums are filled by extremists. this is why we need to start thinking of reconstruction and provide long-term support in building governance structures and economic development in close cooperation with local communities. moreover, given the involvement of regional actors in the syrian conflict and the ethnic and sectarian tensions in the middle east, we ought to address conflicts in the wider region and include local actors. an end to the fighting, humanitarian access and a political settlement must remain our utmost priorities, yet we cannot afford to neglect long-term planning. a broader and more strategic approach that takes local and regional factors into account is necessary to fight extremism and achieve political stability, and that is why, high representative, you are on the right path. thank you for your good work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. yes, we should vote for peace, but what kind of peace? peace of the sovereignty of nations, of the unity of nations, peace having to do with human rights, or peace of graveyards - all of these do not seem to be clear to me. i think it is good that the high commissioner has suggested that we should be prepared for the conditions of peace-making, which also relate to the plans for building up the country and many other things. i think that is urgently needed, but i am very concerned about the geostrategic developments. i have the impression that the fact that russia has de facto interrupted the geneva peace process by bombing aleppo has led to people like mr voigt now being able to talk about a graveyard silence, when we have to note that, for example, a conference is now taking place in astana. and that we can have a geostrategic line from tehran to the shiite baghdad assad and hezbollah , in cooperation also with turkey, and that neither the united states nor europe are at the negotiating table. i am somewhat concerned about how we have been able to find a lasting solution to this problem, which is to say, how we have been able to find a genuine peaceful solution at various levels, with the exception of the united states and saudi arabia. i think that this advance of russia, which will be the decisive force there, and the fact that everyone is running to astana, but we are not there, is a big problem that we have to deal with.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is also aware of the problems of the environment. i grew up as a christian under the socialist dictatorship in an oppositional parish household. i have experienced firsthand, in the company of my family and friends, what it means when a political system interferes with the personal rights and freedoms of people and they even leave the country because of it. i welcome the fact that we are here today to discuss the situation of christians in the middle east. however, i would like to take this debate as an opportunity to demand freedom of all religions in the middle east and other parts of the world. i would like to make three points. first, religious freedom is an essential condition for democratic development in the middle east. in view of the religious plurality in the middle east, respect for religious freedom is essential for peaceful coexistence, as the high commissioner has just said. i call on the eu to stand up for the rights of non-believers and those of other faiths in countries such as saudi arabia and qatar, where they are unfortunately trampled underfoot. the situation of coptic christians in egypt remains precarious. the wars in syria and iraq have led to the exodus of christians and yazidis in particular. these examples contrast with tunisia, where the newly elected government has spoken out in favor of religious tolerance. it deserves the support of the european union. secondly, education and interfaith dialogue must be strengthened. an important aspect of international support was made clear by pope francis during his recent visit to egypt. he stressed that education and religious education should be strengthened to promote interreligious dialogue and contribute to peaceful coexistence. the eu can and should do more in this area. thirdly, the right to belong to a religion or not to belong to one is universal and must be the guiding principle of eu foreign policy. article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights establishes this universality of religious freedom. there is a broad consensus in this house. in 2015, on my colleague rainer wieland's initiative, i published a call for active action against the worldwide persecution of religious minorities and for the defense of religious freedom as a human right. this resolution was supported by members of this parliament from 28 countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european parliament has clearly supported two representatives of the yazidi minorities in iraq and syria.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the political groups for agreeing to my request, so that the subject of the persecution of christians is on the agenda today. the subject is important because it is big. worldwide, over 200 million christians are persecuted for their christian faith. by the way, the eu last year appointed a special envoy for freedom of religion and belief, who is responsible for this very issue. i wonder where he is, and i wonder why he is not here today, specifically at the instigation of the so-called christian democrats. but the important question is, do we want to help christians? and if we want to help, how? we cannot take in all the refugees in the world, so we have to choose. and that is why i ask that if we have to choose, let us give preference to christians!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to start by thanking kenya for showing great hospitality, even though the camp is not ideal. i was there myself six months ago. i visited dadaab, i talked to the local authorities, the local population, the mayor, and also to the camp residents. it was embarrassing for me to see the situation in the camp, which of course seems very hopeless, but it was also embarrassing to see that people have nothing and yet they share. the people in this large camp were really welcomed. i want to put three thoughts in the room: the aid we provide must be used more effectively in the future. not for short-term camps anymore, but really for long-term integration, for aid, for addressing the causes of flight, for climate action and so on and so forth. we need urgent help on the ground now, but we also need more effective financial resources in the long term. we urgently need to create prospects - prospects for these people. go over there and see this. i think the hopelessness and the lack of perspective is worse than hunger. and we have to learn for europe. for europe, i learned in dadaab that transitional solutions of camps or ghettos are not solutions. in dadaab, they're saying we have to integrate people somehow. yes, they waited 25 years and didn't integrate. the problem has now become a wave of integration which we are no longer able to control. that means we have to help as best we can, and we have to learn.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not if kadyrov claims there are no homosexuals in chechnya, then that's as true as the claim that the earth is flat or that eve came from adam's rib. but life is different: the earth is round, and there are not just adam and eve, but many more - whether gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender or intersex. it is not a defect or a flaw, but a wonderful gift of human nature which we must defend. so, first of all, we demand that the hate speech against homosexuals must stop - first of all, when it comes from governments. and if, as in chechnya, you arrest, torture and kill people because they are homosexuals, you are committing the gravest crimes. and so does anyone who stands by. our demand is that all prisoners who have been imprisoned for their sexual orientation must therefore be released. we must also abolish forced sterilization and forced sex reassignment surgery everywhere, including in our member states. it is also important to grant asylum to such people if they are persecuted in their own countries. this is part of the protection of human rights here in the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the first news i read about the pogrom on the internet was that they threw him out the door and told me to kill him. that was the sentence that many read. it was first posted on vkontakte. i think that we have dealt with this pogrom, that we have been shaken by the news from chechnya, that is very good. at the same time, i am also very pessimistic. on the one hand, i think it is right that angela merkel or federica mogherini have also addressed this pogrom publicly. it is good that president putin has come under pressure and announced an investigation. we can probably prevent another pogrom right now, but we're not ending the systematic oppression, persecution, violence against gays and other sexual minorities in these countries. i would therefore like to say at this point that it is right to pay attention to the situation, but what the scandinavian countries have done, namely to create easy entry opportunities for gays from russia and to allow asylum procedures, the european union must do very quickly.
mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner, what is happening in chechnya right now is the extremest form of escalation of a backlash that we are actually seeing all over europe and all over the world right now. the reports of torture, of persecution, of imprisonment and even of killings are absolutely shocking, but the precondition for these kinds of dehumanisation are one thing, and that is denial – denial that we even exist, that gay men, lesbian women, bi-trans and inter people exist, and when the chechnyan president declares that there are no gay men in chechnya, he does exactly that. he denies our existence and he erases our existence, and this is why we cannot just stand aside; we will have to speak up. the european union will have to speak up and defend the rights of those that are being denied their existence in chechnya, and not only tomorrow but all the time, because we exist and we can be proud to exist.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they want to restore access to eu funds to moldova, but neither the 'banking scandal' nor the president's statements about money leaking into the pockets of corrupt elites have been solved, nor has anything changed so far in terms of corruption, abuse of power, arbitrary justice. i have been to moldova many times and have long called for the european parliament to begin discussing the realities and their roots that we are facing in the eastern neighbourhood. moldova is the result of a transformation process in which adaptable oligarchs like plahotniuc followed the lead of eu member states and the russian federation, studying and developing what can be learned from parties like popolo della libertà in terms of maintaining their own power. the problem starts in eu capitals and ends only in chişinău. we are in the middle of a lecture for these plahotniucs, because our discussion is taking place in the context of the cancellation of the trialogue on macrofinancial assistance for moldova. it is as if we were in chişinău, where institutional processes were simply interfered with from outside. the epp and s&d are not alternatives in relation to moldova, as both have their shares in the moldovan government. the european parliament must free itself from this entanglement of interests. that is why we have made clear demands to moldova: precise and enforceable conditionality for eu funds, precise designation of the services to be provided by moldova and no hiding of the european parliament behind large worlds of concepts, immediate cessation of the trials against any political opponents.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to say in advance that i think it is very good that we can continue this debate we are having here today in chișinău in a week's time, since we are both there with the delegation and also have a meeting of the executive board of the parliamentary assembly [euronest]. it really gives us a chance to continue the discussion. i would like to begin by commenting on something that has caused a stir in germany and has also reached other eu countries and brussels, namely a quote from president dodon, who said that half of the money that has gone from brussels to moldova over a period of seven years has been secured in dark channels and not used for its intended purpose. i have noticed that although president dodon was also involved in the government during those years, he has still not been able to put details on the leakage of this money in brussels. i think we must therefore really think about whether we are going to continue to give money to a country whose president tells us that money is leaking into dark channels there, and whose president has also been partly responsible for leaking that money. i believe that the european union in these countries of transformation, in the countries that have made their way towards the west in the framework of our partnership, is actually held very strongly responsible by the citizens for the fight against corruption. mr dodon has now asked us to take a more stringent approach. he is actually meeting us in this debate, and perhaps we can then also deepen this in chișinău. i would agree with all the speakers who say that there has been progress in the legislation in chișinău. but between legislation and implementation in a judicial reform, there are worlds. the same applies to administrative reform. the same is true of all the structures that have been created to combat corruption. but as i said, in chisinau, there's more.
i listened very carefully to the debate that took place here. on the one hand, commissioner, i want to support moldova's accession to the eu, as you do. it's in our political interest, we need to say that openly. we need to strengthen our ties with europe and thereby weaken russia's influence in this country. on the other hand, during the debate, certain facts have clearly come to my attention. the behaviour of president igor dodon, who is strongly pro-russian, who is pushing for some reforms and for example also wants to change the flag of moldova. there are things like the government itself, which is heavily in the hands of oligarchs. there's one billion euros that's gone. i mean, i'm all for support, i'm all for financial support, but please be very careful. we need to make sure that the government is actually making concrete reforms, evaluate those reforms, and then we can release some money. i support the pro-european opposition led by mrs. maja sandu, that's a guarantee. these people could take back moldova on their way to europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, dear colleagues, for a stimulating debate. i think that we all agree moldova has made a courageous choice to undertake an ambitious and far-reaching reform agenda. unfortunately the reform efforts have not yet led to comprehensive implementation, to the tangible results moldovan citizens have the right to expect. these efforts have to be continuously sustained, and i can assure you that the eu stands ready to continue providing its support to the moldovan reform path. that is the reason why we have been preparing an annual action plan for 2017 as well as a new eu multiannual programme 2017-2020 – the so-called single support framework – that will focus on jointly-agreed priorities with a view to strengthening the european visibility and leveraging the impact on the citizens. we have every interest in supporting moldova in its reform efforts, but ultimately it is above all up to the moldovan authorities and citizens to own the reform process and to carry out the reforms they deem necessary. federica mogherini and johannes hahn will continue to keep you fully apprised of developments in moldova, and of course we count on your support to our efforts towards moldova a success story. (applause)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr sajjad karim, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the annual report 2014 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality (2015/2283 (ini)) (a8-0114/2017).
i am not going to go into detail. i would like to take this opportunity to say that we are very late. we don't have as many verbal messages later on in the catch-the-eye procedure. i would like to say that the catch-the-eye procedure is not designed to ensure that you register for all the catch-the-eyes and then enter the debate cheerfully, as is the case at present. so the catch-the-eye procedure is mainly for those who don't have time to speak and are following the debate. i shall take that into account in the following.
i have studied this report in detail because i was responsible for legislation at national level in the czech republic, so of course, for professional reasons, i am interested in what this report contains. i want to say that this is an important message for me. subsidiarity and proportionality are not just technical terms, but they clearly show what the scope of the eu, its legislation, and everything that european legislation is supposed to regulate, should be. i have to explain to the citizens in my constituency in the czech republic why a certain matter is regulated by european law, why it is more appropriate for it to be regulated by european law and not, for example, only by national law. i therefore regret that these very important reports are coming to parliament relatively late. we are discussing the 2014 report and it is difficult to apply the conclusions of the report quickly. i have to say, however, that i have seen, as have my colleagues, a decline in the number of reasoned opinions from the national parliaments. i will hope that this is because we had less legislation in 2014 and that therefore the interest of national parliaments in intervening in the adoption of european law, european legislation, does not decrease. what is important, and we should be careful, is that national parliaments often argue that the reasoning for individual directives is not sufficient, that the reasoning for whether subsidiarity and proportionality are met is not sufficient. the commission should learn from this.
in the following catch-the-eye procedure the only wording i will take into account is that of mr hayes. catch the eye
- i'm not sure. i was implying that we are very late in the timing. i'm not obliged to use the original slot to its full capacity, and that's exactly what you say is the problem. you signed up four hours ago. the catch-the-eye procedure is actually designed to allow you to speak during the debate, and i personally have the practice of taking into account the colleagues who are present during the whole debate. i saw you come in. mr hayes was present at the beginning of the debate and he has spoken. you were not present at the beginning of the debate because the three of us saw it, and therefore you are not included. the commissioner is speaking. i shall not take any further comments on the rules of procedure.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you so much for this interesting debate and, of course, for your comments, for you suggestions and for your questions on this very important topic. as i already said, i am here on behalf of vice-president frans timmermans, my dear colleague, and i would like you to know that all commissioners remain at your service to discuss the subsidiarity and proportionality aspects of proposals tabled by the commission. once again i wish to thank the rapporteur, and all the members involved, for this excellent report. thank you very much for your attention.
thank you, mr. karim, for your words. i'm sure it wasn't the last time you spoke here. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 may 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on financial technology: the impact of technology on the future of the financial sector (2016/2243 (ini)) (a8-0176/2017).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, once again i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms van nieuwenhuizen, for the excellent report. i have listened attentively to the comments of members and i would like to thank them for a positive and constructive attitude. i see there is a lot of agreement on the importance of harnessing the potential of fintech, about the need to strike the right balance between helping financial innovation contribute to dynamic and technology-driven economic growth while safeguarding the integrity of our financial system. we will be assessing whether specific measures need to be presented, either to support technological innovation in finance, to address regulatory barriers to innovation or within the single market that may become evident, or to address specific risks that may be identified. our work will be evidence-based, building on your report, the results of our own public consultation, and our work with european supervisory authorities and international regulatory bodies such as the financial stability board, the committee on payments and market infrastructures (cpmi), and the international organisation of securities commissions (iosco). i count on your continued support to move this critically important regulatory agenda forward.
i would like to thank mrs van nieuwenhuizen very much. i thank you, commissioner, mrs berès and mr ivan, who were present from the beginning to the end of the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 17 may 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
we have reached the end of today's agenda. i also thank the services, the interpreters and all the other people helping in the front and in the background, and i wish you a blessed night's rest and a safe journey home. (the sitting was closed at 10.45 p.m.)
president of the european council. – mr president, members of the european parliament, i would like to report the outcome of the first formal meeting of the european council of 27, which took place on 29 april. our main purpose was to adopt political guidelines for the brexit negotiations, a mandate that sets out the overall principles, objectives and process, and a mandate that the european council will update as necessary, as the talks get under way. a key element of the guidelines is the need to conduct the talks on the basis of a ‘phased approach’. this means simply that there will be no discussion of the framework for our future relations with britain before sufficient progress is made on ensuring an orderly withdrawal. leaders fully supported this logic. to ensure an orderly withdrawal, we first and foremost need to address the situation of more than four million people whose lives will be directly impacted by brexit, on both sides. in a very real way, their futures depend on the outcome of these talks. it is our particular responsibility to secure the best guarantees for citizens – citizens of the union – and for their families. that means guarantees that are effective, enforceable, non-discriminatory and comprehensive, accompanied by simple and smooth administrative procedures. there is a need to act quickly, and so we are ready. now we must move from sharing objectives to actually ensuring that citizens get the necessary guarantees. that is also why i welcome the fact that the commission has already listed a number of detailed requirements. the second priority in the first phase is the need to agree that all financial commitments undertaken by the eu of 28 will also be honoured by the uk. and thirdly, in order to protect the peace and reconciliation process described by the good friday agreement, we must aim to avoid a hard border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland. only once there is sufficient progress on these priorities can we proceed to the next phase of the negotiations, about our future relations. and it will be for the european council of 27 to assess and decide if, and when, we have achieved sufficient progress. when it comes to our future, the european council shared the united kingdom’s desire to establish a close partnership. it is obvious, however, that the relationship between the european union and a non-member state cannot offer the same benefits as eu membership. it is clear that a free trade agreement between the eu and the uk, which is what the uk has chosen, even if it is ambitious and wide-ranging, cannot mean participation in the single market or its parts. and at the same time, the uk must be aware that any free trade agreement will have to ensure a level playing field, and encompass safeguards against unfair competitive advantages through, inter alia, tax, social, environmental and regulatory measures and practices. today it is too early to tell much more about our common future, but we will make our guidelines more precise when the time comes, namely when sufficient progress in the first phase is achieved. leaders responded with the urgency that the situation requires. there will be very little time to conclude withdrawal talks within the framework foreseen by the treaty. time is of the essence here, and much is at stake. next monday, the council will adopt a set of negotiating directives, proposed by the chief negotiator on the basis of the guidelines we adopted on 29 april. these cover the three issues i have just mentioned, plus a number of other matters that need to be addressed in the first phase of the negotiations. since the referendum in june last year, we – the eu27 – have been united, consistent, and demonstrated solidarity with one another. what was, and remains, most important for me, is that our conduct in these talks will show the european union at its best: in terms of unity, political solidarity and fairness towards the united kingdom. finally, i can only praise the european parliament and its leaders for the role they have played. sincere thanks and appreciation for your constructive assistance. this bodes well, not only for the future of the negotiations, but our future as a union of 27. (applause)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, as is customary whenever i address this house, i will speak in all three of our important working languages. i will start in english by congratulating president tusk on last month's european council. i have attended more summits than i care to remember and never have i seen agreement reached so quickly. i can assure you that this does not happen by accident. it is in fact testimony to the work of all member states and all eu institutions, the work they have done together since last june. michel barnier and his team have been up and running across europe to make sure every voice is heard. i would like to pay tribute to him. i won't wish him luck for the negotiations, as i know he will leave nothing to chance. this is exactly the same approach that president tusk and i have always taken. the council conclusions from april and the draft negotiating mandate proposed by the commission earlier this month speak for themselves. i am confident that the draft mandate will be adopted by the council next monday, 22 may. the process shows how united and prepared the european union will be. it underlines how deep our commitment to transparency already is. this is why i see no need this morning to go into any more detail on the negotiations. michel will do this later on this morning. this negotiation is now in the hands of our capable divorce lawyers. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that in the margins of this european council we were able to conclude three important agreements which confirm that the best pages are often written in the margins. the first agreement between denmark and europol is particularly important for the security of citizens as it will allow a sufficient level of cooperation to continue, including on the exchange of operational data. the second agreement concerns portugal and spain on the temporary storage of nuclear waste in almaraz and, finally, the third agreement with slovenia and croatia provides for operational and field solutions to better manage border controls and the application of the schengen rules between these two countries. in each of these negotiations, the commission has built bridges between sometimes distant positions, encouraging the continuation of discussions until they bear fruit. without the commission, these three agreements would not have been possible. it is often said that the commission should look after its own problems and not look after the problems of others, but if it does not look after the problems of others, they remain intact. in this respect, these three agreements say much more than long speeches. europe is a constant effort to build bridges, seek agreements or find compromise solutions. this is also the mission that the commission has declared itself ready to undertake and will continue to implement. i would like to thank this parliament very much for its constant support in this task. mr president, my very sincere congratulations to you, ladies and gentlemen! this unity, which we have demonstrated in the european council, will be our guiding principle throughout the brexit negotiations. this is in the interest of the citizens, as it is in their interest, that we do not concentrate exclusively on the brexit issues, but rather on our programme. we shall do so with the help of the parliaments. in the first half of the commission's term of office we, the commission together with your parliament, have achieved a great deal also by having a stronger voice. so we have not only the investmentplan in kürzester zeit zum erfolg werden lassen. the commission has already mobilised investments of eur 183 billion in 28 member states. we have also set up the european border and coast guard, so that we can better protect our common borders. at the same time we have taken a big step forward with the trade agreement with canada. this agreement secures jobs and makes it clear that european standards and international standards will be respected. das sind nur drei beispiele, um ihnen in erinnerung zu rufen, dass wir mit vereinten kräften vieles gemeinsam schaffen können. this is just one example of how we can work together to create a new world. this unity in thought and action will also be the task of the commission in the second half of its term of office, for example in connection with the establishment of a truly digital internal market. we have already had all 35 announced proposals tabled. some of them must however be brought in trockene tücher. we therefore need the active cooperation of the parliaments. we must use the second half of this commission's term of office, which is also the second half of your term of office, to deliver results so that people can feel again that europe is bringing them something. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european elections are held in a democratic manner. (beifall)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, congratulations on one of the fastest decisions in the european council on such an important issue! i'd like to congratulate you. i would like to do this, first of all, to donald tusk, but also, of course, to michel barnier, who has been appointed by jean-claude juncker to take on this task. the preparatory work was excellent, and the matter is in good hands with michael barnier. the preparation in parliament - guy verhofstadt and antonio tajani - was also valuable to the process. we are united, we are united, we can be proud that the european union of 27 is united. we have made it clear how we envisage the method of first talking about the exit, then the new relations. we have given a clear rejection to the raisin picking that some people in london still imagine. if you leave the european union, you will no longer be able to enjoy the benefits of that union. and we have set out a clear expectation that over 78% of european citizens expect that in the brexit negotiations, the interests of the eu27 will be discussed first before we discuss other issues. this is a clear backing for this mandate, which has now been decided. so that's good. we in the epp group are very pleased about this. one more thing is important to me, and that is to describe the family as a unit. we were in ireland last week with the group of the european people's party to send a message to the irish people, in the face of the conflict over the future shape of the border, that they are not alone, that they can build on solidarity as a union of 27. it's an important reassurance to the people there that they're rooted in the family. but today, because we are in agreement on brexit, i would like to focus on the political situation in europe. and i would like to remind you that a few months ago, at the beginning of the year, all the right-wingers, the nationalists, the anti-europeans, and, for example, marine le pen, met in koblenz and announced that 2017 would be the end of a world and the birth of a new one. that's what she said. she's not even here today. i don't know what she's doing, but she's not here today. i'd like to take another look at it. what has really happened in 2017 since the anti-europeanists made these solemn announcements? i am convinced that farage's party ukip is leaderless, is hopeless, is politically dead in britain. i am experiencing that nigel farage is a coward because he does not run for the british house of commons at all, does not seek responsibility, does not want to take responsibility at all. i have seen his policies lead to the re-drafting of the borders, both in northern ireland and in ireland. i think he's still trying to make a lot of calls to his friend donald trump. i don't know if the talks are still going on, because yes donald trump has a lot more things to do than deal with nigel farage now, but obviously nigel farage's approach has failed on all fronts. the history books will say that he has done great harm to his country with his way of doing politics. the other participants in koblenz: wilders has fallen far short of his expectations in the netherlands, the afd in germany does not know how to deal with the neo-nazis in its own ranks and does not find a clear line of demarcation. and then of course france: le pen has failed, she has gotten the second worst result in all the french by-elections. le pen is denying the rule of law, hiding here in the european parliament from the french judiciary. le pen can no longer inspire her own family to be politically active, and 56% of french people say they are afraid of the policies le pen is making. ladies and gentlemen, this is what remains of the populist approach we saw there. populism has failed, and 2017 offers the chance for us to make a breakthrough for the european union. the european union is a great example of this. 2017 is a key year, yes! that is why the first meeting we have had on monday between the newly elected president of france and the german chancellor is a positive sign, a sign of progress, a sign of hope, because the franco-german partnership is so important. i would like to thank you for agreeing that we will focus on the future of europe over the next two years, not on brexit. finally, i would like to say that, as we look at the momentum we have now for 2017, the most important thing is that we finally start talking positively about our european union again, about what we are achieving. let us look at the world situation: we are now having debates in america about whether the paris agreement will be cancelled. it was we europeans who put climate protection on the world agenda. we had a higher economic growth rate in this european union last year than the americans, thanks to the work of the commission. we have a principle throughout europe that we have health insurance, we take care of everyone who is sick. and in america, obamacare is being eliminated, and 24 million people are losing direct access to health insurance. and we have shown in iran that we can solve the big questions, namely the question of nuclear weapons, also through diplomacy. i think that we europeans should not just talk about our crises, but we should talk about our successes. that is the best way to convince people of europe. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to share this hope and this euphoria that it is enough to have more courage to save the european union, and that we are still facing this question, there is no doubt in my mind. the views of many people on the consequences of brexit are important. it is also important that the citizens themselves draw the consequences of this, that they say: we must engage ourselves. we must show ourselves what kind of eu we stand for. we cannot just leave it to the institutions, to the governments. it is our eu, it is our habitat, it is our future, and we must fight for it. i would ask that we use the whole brexit debate, including the brexit negotiations, to also realize that it would be too easy to stand up after the elections in france and the netherlands and say: authoritarian populism has failed. he didn't fail! we have yet to see how many people are willing to choose this form of authoritarian national populism. and here we can only counter a little by saying: this european union has a value in itself, but we must constantly renew it. there is no social system that has any claim to eternity. if we do not protect it, if we do not advocate it, if we do not renew it and if we do not address the questions that move so many people over and over again, then we will fail. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. who among the many people who have decided to do so knows that - this goes right down to the trade unions - we have a coordinated social security system which we must build up, not back down. if we are talking about the importance of free movement for workers, then it must not only apply to posted workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union will only be transformed into a possible social union by opening up national social systems, and then we will also have a common european pillar. i would also like to encourage those who are now putting the european pillar in the foreground, because what we are seeing there can only be the very first steps, it does not go far enough at all, because in the end the counter-movements are already coming from some member states. for example, if the csu declares that it does not agree with parental leave, that it wants to block it in the federal council, then i think that is a huge problem. how can we solve this problem if, for example, the reaction in germany to the offer to the uk was already before brexit, that we in germany are also thinking about how to reduce the entitlement of employees in our country to child benefit and already have the corresponding plans in the drawer. we must focus on these points. let us together develop it into a solidarity-based, social eu, in which the question of sustainable economic development must of course also be at the forefront, but not against the people, but with them. and that is my reply to you, mr fitto, because that is a different concept of the eu from the one you are promoting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the assessment of brexit is clear. the question now is how to handle it properly and well, and above all effectively. i think the way this has been going so far can be a model for how we work together. barnier and the troops have prepared it thoroughly. parliament, the council and the commission have looked for and found common ground. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we did this for other topics, we would be giving people what they're looking for. they are not looking for a new dream or some new concept or some reforms. i don't think so. they're looking for the result. they want a successful european policy, they want to see that the problems they have are solved and dealt with by us, as far as we can. we cannot solve everything, and part of the responsibility lies with the member states. but this requires that the european institutions and, above all, the member states work together and find common solutions. the answer, which is now derived from brexit and from what people are saying in the streets and saying that europe is great again, is that we have to make new plans. or as my colleague has just said, to organise more regulation is totally wrong. we must deliver results that are concrete. we must show that european policy is for the prosperity and well-being of the people of europe, that it makes sense to go down this road. the brexit negotiations, as they are now beginning, are a very, very good contribution to this. it is sober, it is pragmatic, it is not exaggerated, there is hardly any dream dancing going on, there is no insulting the british. in this sense, this can be a template or a model for the way we work together in the future. i appreciate your kindness in interrupting me, madam president. the speakers were able to talk for hours. maybe we'll do it with the upper class like we do with the others. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, if i did say that, i certainly did not mean it that way, and i apologize for that. it's crystal clear. i am referring to the cooperation of the european member states, organisations and institutions. that's all i meant.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is it not astonishing how offended some british colleagues in this house, especially on the right of this house, are now, because they claim that eu politicians are attacking and insulting britain as a nation? i don't think that's the case. i myself - and i think many of my colleagues - have been repeatedly appalled at the lack of preparation and responsibility of british politicians in the brexit camp in the negotiations and their unwillingness to tell the british public the truth that you cannot keep all the benefits of the eu and leave it at the same time. it's so simple when you think about it, but it's still too complex for the brexit camp. we are now in a situation where the british government has taken the compromise already agreed for the mff review hostage because it has found a rule that it does not have to agree to these decisions to provide six billion euros for the political objectives of the european union. i hope that the british government will be very true to its word and, after the elections, will allow this positive decision to be taken and put the matter back on the agenda. and i call on british politicians from here not to hold the mfr compromise hostage.
i have to say, madam president, we talk about brexit, and we remember: for years, eu-bashing was a popular sport in the uk. actually, we were responsible for everything that didn't go so well. and now the eu wants to punish the british. oh, my gosh! of course, i understand the concerns of many people. the fact that we can live, study and work anywhere in europe is one of our greatest achievements. and yes, we say, in the future, we may not be able to do that. because you're out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and yes, you can cancel a contract, but of course the financial commitments made will still be in force. but that's all we're saying, no punishment. we are calling the consequences - the consequences of a decision which says: we want out, we want out of the eu and therefore out of all areas. that is why i am calling on theresa may to stop this negative legend-making! serve your citizens with pure wine. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i was in northern ireland and belfast last week and i have seen in discussions with civil society there the degree of despair that there is as they think about the consequences for them. i hope that in london, after the elections, there will be a bit of realism, that people will know that if there is a hard brexit, it will be a disaster for the people of the united kingdom and especially in places like northern ireland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should at least constructively reach an outcome that is only possible with realism, to keep the damage to both sides under control, and we should not become nationalistically inflated. i also learned that with europe, elections can be won again. we must tell the campaigners that europe, and macron and others are an example of this, is the way to win elections with europe. and that is why we must all help each other, including us germans, to make operation macron a success, in order to move europe forward.
i have to say, madam president, i think we all regret brexit. but if brexit was good for anything, it was that people now really think about what europe really means. it's not just the uk that's been googling: what does the eu mean, what does it mean to be part of it? and we have seen a lot of pro-european movements in the population since then, which we as politicians might not have been able to initiate in this way. in germany, there is pulse of europe, where people take to the streets on sundays and demonstrate peacefully for europe. elmar brok has just said: macron won elections with europe so it is possible. i would also like to repeat what birgit sippel said: it is true that the uk is not punishing itself now - it cannot and should not be that way - but it is still necessary to negotiate with great vigour. and i think it is equally crucial what mrs sippel said: the truth must be told, because before the referendum the british people were not told the truth about what brexit would potentially mean. that is why i think it is so important that we now have open communication, at least for peaceful coexistence in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the debate on globalisation is reaching a new climax. the united states' withdrawal from key projects of international cooperation is of course of great concern. the eu commission has put forward a reflection paper on the state of the globalization debate, and it basically proposes two things. the first is to further accelerate the process of economic globalisation by means of a new generation of international treaties, and the second is to make social, ecological and democratic adjustments. the question is this: while you are clearly trying to promote bilateral trade agreements which do not provide for binding social and environmental standards, you are not consistent with the ecological, social and democratic adjustments which the process of globalisation requires. two examples: firstly, the european parliament has proposed that you impose binding human rights standards on the textile sector throughout the supply chain. this means that everything imported into europe must conform to our values. we do not need a buy european act, we need binding social and environmental standards. you make proposals like that, you'll gain credibility. the same is true of the fight against financial crime. six officials are in the basement of the eurojustice directorate-general in the financial crime task force. make sure that the resources needed for a clean financial market are finally available. then you'll have credibility.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i sponsored this material. i believe and hope that the material on the european qualifications framework can help to bring the different qualifications in europe closer together in certain areas and, above all, that this can lead to greater labour mobility. this means that people who obtain similar qualifications anywhere in certain parts of europe will be able to find employment in another part of europe and have their qualifications from another eu country recognised in that part of europe. so i think this material is good for increasing employment and especially for young people, it can help to give them a chance to find work not only in their home country, in their mother country, but also in other parts of the eu. if this material contributes to that, then in my opinion it will have served its purpose and i will consider it good.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on a topical issue under article 153a of the rules of procedure of the european central bank (2017/2690 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that this debate is not a catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i see the house is packed to the brim. why are we doing this? draghi is the most important man in the eurozone. the development of the eurozone and the fate of millions of people depend on his decisions. to whom does he give an account? he then refers to the independence of his mandate. yes, but he doesn't have the mandate to expropriate the savers. he doesn't have the mandate to push insurance companies into the loss zone. he doesn't have the mandate to make our banks have trouble dealing with the americans. he doesn't have the mandate to undermine the viability of pension funds. he also doesn't have the mandate to create wealth bubbles in our country. and how does he fight off these attacks? he says, "i have to expropriate the savers so that their deposit systems are safe". how does he justify it? he says: "by my policy of cheap money i am pushing up the economy, which would otherwise be in decline. and because of that, because the economy is booming, employment is booming, savers are also getting something out of it, so their deposit systems are secure in the long run. that's his reasoning. but we know that a zero interest rate policy and negative interest rates put banks and companies at risk. when interest rates are no longer reflecting market conditions, but are simply being lowered to encourage companies to invest, then we know that this underpricing of risk is leading companies to invest in risky ventures and thus to face difficulties in the future. but not enough! he also authorized and enforced the massive purchase of government bonds. the total is 60 to 80 billion a month, a total of 2.3 trillion! and with that, he floods the markets and saves the eurozone, because he reduces interest rates for the countries that are in trouble. but with this zero interest policy, he cannot "strengthen" the economy, so to speak, but he will simply drag along with him the rotten companies and eventually also the banks, so that we will have zombie companies like in japan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the difficulties are that we have the wrong exchange rate. all economists and even the intelligent politicians know that the euro is undervalued in the zone for germany and overvalued for spain and greece. what's the consequence? germany's exports are subsidized and those from the debtor countries are taxed. this causes germany to rush from export to export record, while the other countries import goods and export employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the only consequence of this is that the agony of various countries is now being continued. what is the role of parliament? it would be parliament's job to point out to mr draghi what his mandate is. the aim is to maintain monetary stability. what is this parliament doing? this parliament is turning a blind eye to reality. this parliament does not want to see that this policy is contrary to the good of the people. this parliament is clinging to a failed policy. i therefore ask parliament to close its eyes and to deal with people... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the speakers for not singing. the mandate of the european central bank is to ensure price stability. the ecb has been violating the price stability target of just under 2% inflation for many years, and if it was achieved in the short term, it was probably only through higher oil prices. the ecb has also admitted why this is so, despite the abundance of cheap money: because the unions, despite lower unemployment, do not enforce high enough wages, because the troika has been constantly attacking the rights of workers. the ecb is not only responsible for the money supply, but is also a creditor and part of the troika. and that is precisely the problem: it has castrated its own monetary policy, by repeatedly threatening, for example, greece with the euro if governments do not implement labour market reforms, wage cuts and so on. similar conflicts of interest exist in banking supervision. the ecb is the lender of the banks and the supervisor. that creates a conflict of interest. she's the one who got the irish to bail out the anglo-irish with taxpayer money. but we cannot complain, as mr draghi did in jackson hole, about the inadequacy of government investment and use the troika gang to push through austerity in europe. then the cheap money ends up in the financial markets, not in the real economy. for most europeans, the song by aloe blacc "i need a dollar" is a bitter reality. and that is why the ecb must stop blackmailing the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i think it's good that this debate is taking place here, because many citizens are concerned about this issue. and that's why it's right that we're having this discussion. i would also like to say that the way you have introduced this subject, mr starbatty, is a bit of a scapegoat strategy. we have a common currency, and it was created with a common monetary policy and few rules - rules which, by the way, are not least due to the economic thinking you taught for years in tübingen. the point is: this thinking means: you can introduce a common currency with few common rules and little common policy. this lack of a common economic and financial policy, with a lack of enforcement of the few rules we have, has led to the crisis that made it necessary for the ecb to act in 2012. the ecb has not broken the rules; the ecb has followed them, mr lucke, according to the european court of justice. the point is that the ecb has ensured that the euro has not broken up. and now all kinds of people are criticizing the ecb for it. in some cases, it is then personalised, as you have done, mr starbatty, to mr draghi. the fact is that the member states are getting off on the wrong foot. instead of putting the common economic and financial policy on the track that this currency needs, the ecb is now regularly held responsible for it. this is a scapegoat strategy. on the other hand, it is necessary to launch this common economic and financial policy in the eurozone so that the ecb has the space to return to normal monetary policy. there are many arguments for this. but that would of course be contrary to your ideology of renationalisation, and so you would rather find a scapegoat - but please not on the back of european unification!
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not so we are talking today about the power of the ecb. firstly, the ecb bought government bonds to protect greece and then italy from insolvency. this is monetary state financing and therefore prohibited fiscal policy. secondly, mr dragi's decision to do everything, really everything, to prevent exits from the eurozone is a clear violation of the law, it is forbidden geopolitics. thirdly, the ecb has bought assets worth more than four trillion euros. it makes the economy into a zombie like in japan, that's forbidden economic policy. all of them have been tolerating these violations of the law for years because they think they can save banks and states from bankruptcy - they are wrong. it's not working, you see. nothing is free. the hard-working people who lose their currency. you will pay the price, and logically, there is no way around that. the ecb is acting like a criminal organisation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would first like to address my colleague, mr gualtieri, and point out that this parliament has adopted a report which was very, very critical of the european central bank. so the claim that the critics of the ecb are in a small minority here is not entirely justified. and there's a reason for that. because the measures that the ecb has taken in the past have been - i think we can all agree - extremely unusual measures, measures that no other central bank would have taken ten years ago, with the possible exception of the central bank of zimbabwe. we must note that the question of whether the ecb has exceeded its mandate is a topical and relevant one. no one is disputing the independence of the ecb within its mandate. but the warrant has to be verifiable. and the problem is, we don't have a control mechanism. we have brought a constitutional action against the ecb in germany. but in germany, you have to prove that the federal government is violating the democratic imperative of the basic law in order to even be able to open the procedure in order to be able to potentially challenge the overstepping of the mandate of the ecb. this can't be a condition. parliament must establish control mechanisms for the ecb and for overstepping its mandate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that professor starbatty's fundamentalist criticism is exaggerated and wrong. the ecb is independent, not bound by instructions, and is accountable to itself by virtue of its mandate. we do not want - and i am sure you do too - a central bank that is subject to political horse-trading. that's why this is important. secondly, you can discuss the instruments and objectives critically, and you have contradicted your colleague lucke or vice versa. you said the ep was blind. mr lucke said we had submitted a critical report. it doesn't add up. thirdly, there are of course problems with the ecb. the ecb thought that it could use monetary policy to stimulate the economy against the productivity gains of the it industry and against falling oil prices that was a mistake. but they're also design flaws. why don't we have voting rights based on the liability shares? that's a question you can ask. why does the ecb define the inflation target itself? the treaties themselves define 'not less than 2%' by mr trichet! why has it not been possible to actually separate states and banks? no, the loose monetary policy has brought the banks even closer to the states. so there are a number of critical points that can and must be discussed. in conclusion, mr draghi is a regular presence here, and we are also critical of him, and therefore the question of democratic justification is not appropriate.
vice-president of the commission – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, we all know that those roaming surcharges will be abolished in the european union very soon. the 15 june will be the end date of those roaming surcharges for european citizens, and if people do not have to pay those high roaming surcharges anymore, they would like to get more and more access to their legally bought digital content even when they travel in other eu member states. we know that 20% of european citizens spend at least ten days during the year in some other eu member state, and many of those people travelling in some other eu member state would like to get access to their legally bought digital content; to their favourite movies, tv series, music, video games, e—books, audio books, sports events, and football, all of which are really important. but today, they cannot do so. we have to provide legal access to digital content for our citizens. we know that according to public opinion polls, even 20% of internet users in the european union are using vpn to get access to digital content. even 68% of film viewers in the european union say that they are using so-called free downloads. this is a problem. authors are not fairly remunerated. so, i am happy that we were able to reach consensus in this cross-border portability proposal, and i am absolutely sure that all the european citizens will also be happy. i would like to thank the european parliament, and especially the rapporteur, mr cavada, and all the shadow rapporteurs, and i would like to ask parliament to vote in favour of this very important proposal.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the portability regulation is an important step towards the completion of the digital single market. a balanced compromise has been reached, which allows citizens to access their legally acquired content across borders, while at the same time providing sufficient protection for the rights of rights holders, thus safeguarding cultural diversity in the future. the well-functioning system of european film funding and the principle of territoriality have also been protected by a flexible verification system, and this was a particularly important concern for us in the committee on culture, because we are convinced that at the present time we can only achieve cultural diversity and the strengthening of the european film sector by maintaining the territorial principle and that a long period is needed to establish new structures in a lasting way. a large number of europeans who are temporarily abroad within the eu for a variety of reasons - be it work, study or leisure - will benefit from this regulation, as it will allow them to take their legally acquired home programme with them when travelling. this is consistent with our ideas of mobility and freedom of access to content. i welcome the fact that we have a clear legal framework here, which takes account of data protection on the one hand, but on the other hand also gives a margin of manoeuvre that is flexible enough to implement different verification systems, so that we can still keep the application simple while ensuring the necessary legal certainty on all sides. i think we have reached a good compromise here, which takes us a significant step forward. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs very warmly for their work.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i too would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to our rapporteur. mr. cavada, you did an excellent job! not only did you ensure that we agreed on this proposal in a short space of time, but i also found working with you extremely rewarding. there are few cases where we can achieve something for our citizens in such a short time. and that brings me to the point. i am glad that we have done something real today for our citizens - the vice-president of the commission has already said it: i am very happy that we will no longer have roaming charges on 15 june, that everyone in the european union can use their smartphone to access their services. and one piece of the way to continue to achieve something positive for our citizens in this europe is the portability regulation which we are voting on tomorrow. i hope very much that there will be broad support and agreement from all sides. what has been achieved? if you were to go on holiday today to another european country and you took a book with you, and you opened that book and you saw that there were only white pages, you would be disappointed and you would not be able to comprehend it. but that's what's happening now with online services, with subscriptions that you've ordered online, paid for in your hometown and in your country. games, movies, sports coverage, etc. can't be accessed. in future, thank god, this will be possible, thanks to the new portability regulation. i'm from munich. i'm very happy that in future i will not only be able to watch fc bayern football matches at my home. i have a subscription that allows me to do this online, and i can also follow the football matches of my home club in future when i have something to do here in brussels or strasbourg. this is something great. i am glad that in future all citizens of europe will be able to do this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. yes, it's unfortunately true: until now, we couldn't even use music, movies or our favourite tv shows that we already bought online in europe across borders. the new portability directive will finally provide some relief, and we will therefore vote in favour of it. but it is also true that from a cultural and political point of view this is only a small step. because the current public debate alone shows that some actors in cultural small-stateism want to sleep on. hbo/cbs and other platforms such as netflix have long since won the hearts of the public with their own european productions. where geoblocking is faltering, larger, viable policy solutions are so far out of sight. yes, it is about the business model of the big and small european film and music producers. this is not a conflict-free debate about opening up the territorial principle. but we must finally guide them and ask how european film and music producers can succeed across borders today, so that european cultural exchange goes beyond festivals and into everyday life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, europe is a union, and yet we still have digital borders between member states today. on this day we are creating a small exception to those borders. people will no longer be blocked from accessing the videos that they have already paid for just because they are visiting another country. that is good. it is common sense and it is an important step forward, but this has to be the first step of many in the fight against geo-blocking; it cannot be the last. geo-blocking will remain a widespread problem when this regulation is enacted. according to the commission, almost 70% of video sites in the eu geo-block. our own parliament research service has estimated that people are actually willing to pay almost a billion euros extra per year if geo-blocking is abolished altogether. that is income, and that is an audience that we are currently denying our european creators. now the film industry has voiced quite a lot of concerns. some feel that they have come to rely on geo-blocking as the sole means for their business model. let us work together to find solutions to that, but the solution cannot be to accept virtual borders. the status quo is simply not working for consumers. it is failing at making europe’s amazing cultural diversity accessible to all europeans. let us be clear: geo-blocking is a form of discrimination. a common european public sphere cannot develop with geo-blocking in place. it locks european audiences out from european works and it locks artists’ international borders. ‘this video is not available in your country’. let’s put these words where they belong, not on the screens of european internet users, but in the dustbin of history. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, thank you very much for the question. the portability regulation will ensure that, when you go on holiday to another country, you can access content that you have already had access to in your home country. but those who find themselves permanently on the wrong side of the border – for example, linguistic minorities or language learners – cannot benefit from that. i think the overall effect of geo-blocking on the film industry is negative. on average, a european film is only legally available in two to three countries outside the eu. this means that there are a lot of paying customers who do not have the possibility to access this content legally. we need to take into account the possible revenues that could be created if there was a legal offer.
mr president, commissioner ansip, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the portability regulation which we now have to vote on is a major step forward for consumers in the european union. finally, we can take the content we have paid for with us to other eu countries, for example when we travel, study or work temporarily. this is a huge gain, and one cannot minimize it, but one must make it clear why the european union is also there for us. however, we must continue to work together on the digital single market. this means that we need to make further progress, particularly in the area of standards, including data protection, and copyright. we must also continue to work on the issue of crossborder access to services, on geo-blocking, to reduce the barriers in europe, but at the same time, of course, also ensure that the interests of those who produce content, for example, are also protected.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the invisible borders of the digital single market must be removed. this regulation is a first real step in the right direction. the regulation is a great success for the citizens in particular. this will enable legally acquired content to be accessed throughout the eu in full functionality, with the same quality and as usual from home. the principle of 'legally acquired, legally streamed' applies throughout the eu. i am very pleased that the regulation applies to all content. the regulation expressly does not set a maximum duration for temporary residence, there is no obligation to return to the country of residence and providers are not allowed to limit the duration of use in the general terms and conditions. we must not rest on our laurels. the full implementation of the digital single market is still a long way off. we must not fall behind what has been achieved, especially with the cabsat regulation, for which i am rapporteur, in order to ensure crossborder access to the media libraries of broadcasters.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i think that the decisions taken in the matter of the substance are, contrary to what my colleagues from the socialist and green groups have just said, generally sound. the problems of implementation where they exist must be tackled in concrete terms. these are not major legal problems, but rather implementation problems with a new regulation. there are problems with the border authorities, there are problems with the transition: when do we move to targeted controls, what technical possibilities can be used to meet the corresponding requirements? there's a whole range. and we'll talk more often about how to optimize that. i think we can agree that, without, please, mrs fajon, being threatened, we will now block something again. i do not want to block anything, i just want to make sure that we find solutions together, that the waiting times do not become immeasurable. the spanish government has reacted very sensibly and has carried out targeted checks at the times when they were necessary. you have to get used to a new situation, one you've never known before, and find solutions to it. we should approach this constructively and try to resolve it constructively. i would just like to say to mr batten that i find your remarks about interpol and europol almost amusing because the united kingdom does not take in very much news. and i would also like to point out that we at interpol are now employing some 40 people to determine whether turkey may be trying to get international arrest warrants issued after false interpol warrants. i have great confidence in europol and i believe that we can best respond to the situation according to our standards and methods.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission communication on road transport in the european union (2017/2545 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. finally, on 31 may, it was announced repeatedly that this road transport package was to come. this package is of the utmost importance. this package will now show us how much the european union has grown together with east and west and north and south. i can tell you that these debates will not be easy, because there are different fears on different sides. so, in order to be able to combine this idea of an open access single market with the idea of preventing social dumping in europe, we need, in addition to all the proposals you will make on 31 may, in any case - and i say this in particular to my colleagues in the european people's party - a european road transport agency which will deal with all these issues. otherwise it will be very, very difficult to bring the different interests together. i look forward to the debate in the weeks and months ahead.
the commission has already done so. i'm very pleased that you're finally going to release the long-awaited road transport initiative. it is certainly necessary to solve existing problems and challenges in this sector. at the same time, i am convinced that we do not need so many new regulations. the cabotage regulations are actually clear, the problem is that they are not sufficiently enforced in the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal cabotage. unfortunately, some member states are eliminating cabotage altogether by increasing administrative barriers. this too cannot be the right way. i am in favour of the unbureaucratic use of paperless, standardised documentation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the industry needs more flexibility in terms of driving and rest periods, i.e. specifically not longer driving times. and we must improve the working conditions of drivers and increase road safety. this is the only way to overcome the current skills shortage and to create a sustainable and competitive european road transport sector. let us ensure that national entrances are not allowed to stand in the way of a single european transport area, which we so badly need. this also applies to aspects concerning tolls and eurovignette. these should be europe-wide, distance-dependent and purpose-related, and preferably electronic and interoperable.
i have to say, madam president, we will need roads in the future too, even if we try to use railways and waterways as a more environmentally friendly alternative. but with the traffic growing - and it's forecasted - we'll definitely have to see how we can improve the road. that's why these laws are so important. i want to focus on seven points. you can talk about it a lot. one is: we need innovation. there's a lot of work to be done. we need to make these innovations possible through digitisation, through the sharing economy. there will be trucks in the future that drive in platooning. in any case, all the innovations that can come, intelligent transport systems, can make transport safer and also just for example more environmentally friendly, more efficient of course anyway. keyword environment: we have a regulation for an infrastructure in europe for alternative energies, which only needs to be implemented now. we need electricity, gas and hydrogen everywhere. thirdly, the freight ship. we need electronic shipping documents. if we have that, we can achieve enormous efficiency. the practicability of driving and rest periods is another keyword. there are some things that could be improved from the driver's point of view. the toll, a eurovignette. we must apply the polluter pays principle very rigorously and then use the money we save in a targeted way in the infrastructure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we need new recruits. and number seven: what we don't need is a street agency. we need to monitor this, but we don't need a new agency to do it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. you're absolutely right. i said we need alternative energy infrastructure. and that includes charging stations, of course. they can make a huge difference in traffic, so we can have more e-mobility on the road. but we need more than that, we need hydrogen stations, and we need lpg stations, everything you can think of, to have environmentally friendly modes of transport, to have alternative fuels, so to speak, and of course we need as many charging stations as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a few days ago the head of the jost logistics group, a belgian company based in luxembourg, was taken into custody. he is said to have set up an international network of companies to collect social contributions amounting to 55 million euros. all this shows that we finally need stricter rules and stricter controls. the solution already exists: it's the digital tachograph. but so far only new vehicles have to be fitted with it, and we have 15 years to retrofit old vehicles. that's why we need to retrofit now. all of that is possible, but please, right now. a lot of truck drivers are living in their trucks now. they hardly ever see their family. some member states have already taken action against this. the commission must now make a european proposal. we do not want to create new loopholes, such as the idea that drivers can stay with private individuals of their choice. we greens want a 20% reduction in working hours, in the interests of drivers, their families and safety on europe's roads.
i have to say, madam president, road transport is the lifeblood of europe, the prerequisite for the internal market and freedom of movement. four points to make: firstly, national toll systems are a brake on the transport industry. we therefore need to implement digital solutions for a cross-border toll system as soon as possible. secondly, we need a competitive transport economy. taxes, levies, tolls, pollution controls - all of these have their justification, especially from an environmental point of view. but we can't go overboard. the link between tolls and co2 emissions is complicated. we must avoid red tape and we must not punish companies twice and thrice. thirdly, those who drive vehicles, the drivers, must not be exploited. i am very much in favour of the application of the wages and social conditions of the member state in which the drivers predominantly work. if that's hard to do, i understand, but the current practice is definitely exploitation. i think that the fact that drivers work for months in germany or the benelux countries and are paid at the lowest european wage is an abuse of the european single market. the commission must therefore do more to combat and control dubious subcontractors and illegal practices on the roads, and above all to make the member states much more responsible. otherwise we will continue to lose credibility with the workers and also with the medium-sized transport industry. many points have been raised in our resolution. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you said the toll should be unbureaucratic, and i agree. but do you think that the toll for foreigners - which is now being introduced in germany and which the commission has still today confirmed, although it is anti-social and anti-ecological and anti-european - is wonderfully designed, unbureaucratically easy to handle, or would you have preferred it otherwise?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! there are always things that can be improved. but at least once, it's a start for distance-based charging. that's what the greens want. and if you find a system that maybe builds on the german system a little bit, and then enables digital solutions that allow us to be active across borders, well, why not? so the german toll can be a start.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a matter of procedure, because we have asked the commissioner, by a large majority, to explain to us that german motorists are being relieved of their burden more than before, and that this is suddenly pro-european, whereas it was anti-european before. that is the explanation we wanted, and we did not get it. the procedure is nevertheless closed.
in writing. we can only hope that the commission will read the transport committee resolution carefully, because what we have informally on the road initiative is of great concern to us. the commission has now announced the road initiative for 31 may. there are plans on the table to remove truck journeys from the scope of the posting of workers directive. this means that there are no protection requirements such as collective agreements and minimum wages for truck drivers. the commission's plan is to give social dumping free rein? we have already made it clear in our amendments to the revision of the posting of workers directive: no exemption for transport! i'll give you a recent example. a benelux transport company is accused of having hired some 1 100 of its truck drivers through mailbox companies in eastern european countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. however, they would be paid according to the standard applicable in romania. so, get on the phone to the mailbox companies. the location of the company must be linked to the company's activity.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me thank the european parliament, the committee on international trade and the rapporteur mr szejnfeld for the attention, the work and the commitment you put into this. as you said, it has been five years now since the eu-korea free trade agreement entered into force, so it is very appropriate to evaluate it. we have done an external evaluation; the upcoming opinion of the economic and social committee will deliver one; and together with the work you have done, this gives a good contribution to analyse the results of the first five years. this is, as the rapporteur said, an economic success story. during the first five years of the implementation, eu exports increased by 47%, or eur 15 billion. also, korea increased its export, even if it was a little bit more moderate. this leads to more economic activity, more employment in the eu as well as in korea. i fully agree with the conclusion of the report, saying that the fta has and continues to have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of the parties. at the same time, i agree that korea needs to do more on trade and sustainable development, particularly labour rights. to this end, we need to use all the available channels that we have to insist on the need of progress. i raised this matter with my korean colleague when he was here just before christmas, when we had the eu trade committee with korea, and i have followed it up in a recent letter. in march, we also had a committee on trade and sustainable development (inta), so commission raised it there again. the efforts of civil society mechanisms that are established by the free trade agreement, as well as the government-to-government dialogue, have considerably raised awareness and pressure, and this is a driver for change – but it is not enough. i am fully aware of your request to open formal consultations with korea on its commitment to freedom of association and collective bargaining. i believe that, as you know, there has just been an election in south korea, and we should first talk about this with the new minister and the new government as soon as they are in place. hopefully they will take a forthcoming position on this. once we know what the new government thinks, we can reflect together on the most appropriate way to ensure better implementation of the trade and sustainable development chapter of this agreement. this would be a matter of priority with a new government, already inviting, as soon as there is a government; i hear this will happen in june, and then i will go to seoul in september for a trade committee meeting that is already planned. there are also a number of items that we would like to address by an amendment to trade agreement: direct transport, repaired goods, truck tractors, and korea, from their point of view, are interested in including an investment protection chapter. but the country has been hesitant when it comes to the investment quota system, so this makes rapid progress on an amendment package unlikely. in many other areas the implementation runs smoothly, but as you mention, further work needs to be done when it comes to sanitary, phytosanitary issues as well as intellectual property rights. the same applies to the adoption of new geographical indications and the further facilitation of customs procedures. all these issues are being addressed with our korean counterparts in the different committees and working groups that have been established in the free trade agreement (there are in fact 15 of these groups). in addition, we have indicated to korea that we will look at legal means if necessary if we do not see progress on these issues. the inta committee was informed about this in a report very recently. as i said, the next trade committee is planned for the end of september in seoul, where i will attend. thank you very much for the work that has been done here by the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the inta committee. i think this is an excellent work and i appreciate this possibility to discuss this with you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not it has already become clear that our free trade agreement concluded by the european union with south korea is a great success. mr szejnfeld has presented the figures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. our exports have increased by almost a third in five years. we have managed to turn a negative trade balance into a trade surplus of some eur 5 billion. the agreement with south korea is a wonderful agreement to show many of our citizens who are worried that we are achieving all these successes, all these benefits for our workers, our companies and our consumers, without all the bad things that are being said and with which our citizens are worried. i can therefore only say to everyone: please do not believe those who are campaigning in the streets against foreign trade policy. we want to shape globalization, and this agreement is a wonderful proof that we do exactly what we say we do, that we don't lower any standards, that we don't restrict community services, that we don't do any negative things that we don't know we're doing. secondly, commissioner malmström has mentioned that there are some things we need to improve. i hope that we can use the regular contacts that we now have thanks to the free trade agreement to tackle things. i am thinking of food security, geographical indications, intellectual property, non-tariff barriers to trade in our automotive sector, and shipbuilding subsidies, which are simply not right.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the free trade agreement between the republic of korea and the european union has now been in force for almost six years. the agreement is certainly a success in economic terms. the volume of trade has increased considerably over the last six years. the eu's previous trade deficit has been turned into a surplus in recent years, and the overall interconnection between the two economies has increased. i think that is a very good thing in view of the current threats of indiscriminate protectionism. however, we must also acknowledge that there are significant implementation gaps. in particular, the sustainability chapter is being implemented very slowly in korea. the obligation to ratify the ilo core labour standards has not been fulfilled. trade union rights are ignored, trade union leaders are arbitrarily arrested in connection with demonstrations. we social democrats cannot accept that. we have always said that trade is not just an economic issue for us. trade without the respect of fundamental workers' rights cannot be accepted in the long term. trade policy must also serve to anchor fundamental sustainability goals and basic worker rights globally. we are in favour of free trade, but free trade needs a reliable framework and is not an end in itself, but must contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. we therefore expect the korean government to finally take a firm stand on the implementation of the sustainability chapter. we are also hopeful of the new korean president moon, who has also been active as a human rights lawyer in the past. we are also calling on the commission to press more vigorously than before for the respect of fundamental trade union rights. the violation of trade union rights by the korean government must be the subject of the dispute settlement mechanism provided for in the trade agreement. the commission's approach here is also a question of political credibility, because sustainability objectives cannot only be promoted, but they must also be enforced.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the figures show that the fear of the rabbit has not been confirmed by the greens, the left and the right. it is interesting to note how the korean deficit has turned into a surplus for the europeans. the reason for this is that the won has appreciated by 20% against the euro. you might ask, isn't that a disadvantage for korea? no, on the contrary! because if we look at the structure of trade, we see that 30% of goods are capital goods, 20% are means of transport, 12% are chemical products. so this is boosting korea's performance. and as for us, because of this 20% devaluation, we now sell our products 20% cheaper and we also buy korean products 20% more expensive. this devaluation was a change in terms of trade to the detriment of europe. we give away products, but the koreans are building their economy on it, and we buy korean products too expensive. this is also the quintessence of the change from a deficit to japan to a surplus to japan.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not let me take another look at the introduction. the situation on the korean peninsula is certainly a matter of concern to us all. trump and kim jong-un are two unpredictable characters on the world stage of history. the korean people have clearly expressed their desire to end the saber-rattling by electing the human rights lawyer and advocate of dialogue, moon jae-in. so congratulations to you, president moon! the second major election motive was to revive the korean economy and create good jobs. and here we have to admit that the eu-korea agreement has developed the trade balance to the detriment of korea. the deficit has been reversed. in view of our claim to fair trade, this is not the way a partnership should be. the protests against the poor economic performance have been dramatically suppressed by the previous governments. trade unionists, human rights activists and journalists were put in prison. the ilo core labour standards have still not been ratified. attempts by the commission to negotiate - which i acknowledge - on the basis of the sustainability chapter of the agreement have been ineffective. we therefore call on the commission, together with korean and european civil society, to request formal consultations under article 13.14 of the agreement without delay. this will enable the new government to be encouraged and supported in implementing reforms from the outset. it is also in the interests of stability on the korean peninsula.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in this report on the free trade agreement with korea, i am particularly concerned that the korean government is called upon to finally ratify the fundamental rights of workers as defined by the international labour organisation. i am also glad that the report tackles the great problem of the suppression and suppression of trade unions, as mr scholz has just done. i would also like to see the precarious situation of migrant workers in korea addressed. unfortunately, that did not win a majority. my group and i are firmly opposed to the call for arbitration. i think we should not support this and take public opinion here quite seriously. i therefore ask you to support my two amendments to this resolution tomorrow.
the commission has already done so. the agreement is undoubtedly a good agreement. but as it is in life, the best is the enemy of the good. we must therefore naturally reflect on what we can do better in future agreements, especially since the court of justice of the european union itself stated yesterday in its judgment on the singapore agreement that workers' rights are an integral part of trade agreements and therefore also fall within our competence. if you look at south korea now, there are problems with joint implementation. so these domestic advisory groups don't have a clear set of rules. it's not clear how quickly or by whom someone can be deployed there. the clear position of the rights of these domestic advisory groups is not settled, nor is the question of the enforcement of their decisions. that is why we must strengthen the rights and obligations of domestic advisory groups in agreements in the future.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are all still appalled by what happened in rana plaza in bangladesh and many other accidents in bangladesh where people who produce textiles for us put their lives and their safety at risk. that's why it was right and necessary that we acted together after the rana plaza disaster and launched the sustainability compact, accompanied by the accord, to ensure that there are improvements in working conditions in bangladesh. tomorrow is the third follow-up meeting on the compact and i hope it will be a success. but it can only be a success if there is a clear agreement on how to proceed, and that is one of the reasons why we are here today. there is no doubt that progress has been made on the compact. we have seen a change in the labour law. new trade unions have been formed. i believe that, particularly in the context of the question of wages and working conditions, the question of the possibility of collective bargaining is of course crucial to achieving improvements. we have seen an increase in the minimum wage, and through the accord, we have also achieved inspections and building safety improvements in 1,700 factories, including fire safety. so we've made some progress. the international labour organization, however, is of course urging us to see that there are still major shortcomings. i am grateful to the commission for having made this very clear in a letter. in this respect, i do not think that bangladesh can be very clever in taking advantage of the ldcs' preferential tariffs - they have had growth rates of 6.6% over the last three years - but on the other hand fail to meet the obligations imposed on them by our gsp system, which also recognizes workers' rights. we have made it very clear in the resolution on the textile industry at the last plenary session that we also expect that we can create more binding rules here for compliance with sustainability criteria or due diligence, in line with the oecd guidelines, and that our preference system is also more oriented towards the issue of respect for workers' rights. we must also reflect on this again if there is no progress. we cannot tolerate everything in the framework of ldcs. in the end, parliament must also take action. in this respect, there are a few problem areas: what about the rights of workers in the special export zones? there is a movement now that the government is apparently rethinking the legislation, but we need clarity that there can't be two classes of employment law. we must also deal with the difficulties of registering trade unions and also with the question of work in the factories and recognition. and of course the repression that has happened to trade unionists and others in bangladesh is not acceptable. so our question is really: how can we improve implementation? how can we ensure that the ilo's comments are implemented? and i also believe that we need to extend the accord beyond may 2018 because the work is not done yet. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was able to see for myself, as part of an s&d delegation to bangladesh in march, that the only significant improvement in working conditions in the textile and shoe factories was in the construction standards. as late as 2016, trade unionists were briefly detained, and the international labour organization's standards are still being violated. the s&d delegation has called for the implementation of these standards on the ground, and has thus complemented the commission's communication in this respect. i welcome the sustainable development pact and i am very much looking forward to the outcome of tomorrow's meeting. i am particularly interested in how the commission, as a co-signer of the pact, will continue to contribute to its implementation. i would remind the commission again of the parliament's own-initiative report on supply chains in the clothing sector, which was adopted at the end of april. in this report, the european parliament calls on the commission to propose legislation to finally establish mandatory compliance with the duties of care along the supply chain. this legislative initiative could contribute to better working conditions in the producing countries, including bangladesh, in addition to the sustainability pact.
a writer. the commission is not commissioner hogan, it is a pleasure to see you here in the chamber. it's always a pleasure to do so. tonight we are discussing relations with norway, and there are two strands to be discussed: the first is norway's decision to impose an ad valorem duty of 200 to 400% on cheese, lamb and beef. they did that in 2013, and since then, we've been calling for action. we also made this very clear in a resolution of parliament on 4 july 2013, but nothing has happened yet. the second item on the agenda, which we are discussing this evening - and the rapporteur is mr borrelli - is the financial relations, the financial mechanism for 2014-2021 and the fisheries protocol, although we have not yet resolved the first item. and that, of course, has led us to some reflection processes. how is it that we have conflict with each other on the one hand and then on the other hand we make an agreement where we work very closely together? the question therefore is: what are the commission and the foreign office going to do to bring about a solution? we are finding it very difficult to give our consent to the financial mechanisms if the customs problem has not been resolved first. the second question therefore is: what are the concrete expectations and measures to be taken to find a solution in the context of the financial mechanisms, and are the commission and the foreign office really convinced that different negotiations can actually lead to success? this is the content of the story, commissioner hogan, where we in the committee on trade, as the committee responsible, have had a little bit of a ramble. and then we have a second thing, which is more about the formal work: we are negotiating an interinstitutional agreement with the commission and the council to ensure that the provisions of the treaty, that parliament is fully informed on an equal footing with the council, are also implemented and that there can be no provisional application of an agreement before the european parliament has taken a decision. and we do not seem to be able to guarantee that in the case of the norway agreement, with regard to the financial mechanism and the fisheries agreement. that is why we have said here: do we really want to give consent now if this obligation, which we believe is clearly laid down in the treaty, is not respected? there are now signs of improvement and we do not want to hold norway responsible for a case which the commission and the council will have to answer for. but we have to deal with this problem. we must ensure that parliament and the council are kept equally informed and that there is no provisional application of agreements of any kind before the european parliament, as the democratically elected body of the european union, has given its consent.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i think that the excitement of some colleagues is inappropriate. we should start this debate differently: first of all, we should acknowledge the great financial commitment of norway in providing funds to reduce the poverty gap within europe. and we should make it clear that we are aware of this contribution, especially in the current situation surrounding the brexit negotiations. we should recognise the market access and contribution considerations in the updated agreement which are regulated there. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the exemption from customs duties. so it's a matter of negotiation. the eea council has just confirmed that further liberalisation of agricultural trade remains the objective. so everyone seems to agree, and there is no problem. i would also have been able to understand a norwegian position which would have been even more critical of unrestricted agricultural trade because of the particularly harsh natural conditions for farmers and fishermen in our partner country. so there is no alternative to reasonable negotiation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we 're actually discussing two things today: one is an agreement negotiated by the european institutions with norway. we don't like some of the content. i can understand why the norwegian government has gone as far as it could go, given that it is a minority government. but i am convinced that the european commission and the european external action service have completely failed to involve us in parliament closely in the negotiation of this agreement, to take us on board and to show the borders to the norwegians, whom we have regularly addressed as a parliament. what annoys me most is that we have a clear agreement between the european parliament and our foreign trade commissioner that no trade agreement can be provisionally put into effect until the european parliament has given its opinion. we have no such thing with the european external action service, and we have no such thing with the other commissioners, but that this agreement is provisionally applied, and a large part of this agreement is foreign trade agreements. the european foreign service and high representative mogherini are, to put it bluntly, being insolent and unreasonable. and i call on the commission and i call on the european external action service: for all future agreements we expect that we can vote in time, we expect that there will be no provisional application, and i can only call on them to really take that into account. secondly, what norway is doing is also not in the spirit of the agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr scholz is right, they are not formally doing anything illegal, but this is not friendly, this is not announced, this is not agreed. i can understand very well that many farmers, many businesses and above all many citizens in our member states are upset about this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the white paper on the future of the eu contains at least one scenario in which eu cohesion policy would be overtaken. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of regional authorities. who is really going to throw away all these basic values which have been practically abolished in cohesion policy? the new 'shaping globalisation' reflection paper does not want to do this. i can only support you, commissioner, if you keep saying loudly that cohesion policy is not a financial instrument but a policy with a long-term objective, namely the creation of equal living conditions in the union. and that is why i think it is pointless to reduce the cohesion policy mix to credit instruments. cohesion - i want to make this clear - must not become the little sister of the efsi. we must stop discussing the structural funds and subsidies. if we make the support policy more efficient in practice, we will enable local authorities and project promoters to co-finance and ultimately achieve sustainable successes! this naturally includes the policy of support, particularly for cross-border projects in the fields of education, culture, research and science.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr hannu takkula raises a point in a recital, but the article does not change it. in the recital we cannot make any contradictory statements about the article. in this respect, the legal service has consistently omitted a certain part of the recital which is not reflected in the article. the directive currently in force already covers advertising for betting and gaming. we have excluded gambling and betting from the scope of the directive. this will remain so. mr takkula wanted to include the advertisement in the recital but not in the article, and that is why the legal service took it out. that is the point of contention raised by mr takkula at the moment. i tried to explain it to him this morning. the thing is, the legal service has actually done what the legal service is supposed to do: correct everything that is legally wrong. i therefore oppose this motion. in principle, the committee has thus adopted the mandate for the trilogue by a two-thirds majority. if we here now think that the committee should not speak for parliament, then we must vote differently accordingly.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the socialist group also thanks you very much for the work you have presented. it is important for the socialist group that we have a balanced mix, ultimately in terms of free market access and fair competition on the one hand, but also the implementation of social standards on the other. the european union must be accepted in this respect, both in terms of fairness and the social pillar. if i may just quote a few points from your press conference, mr šefčovič, i think it is good that you have included the transport sector in the provisions of the posting of workers directive - that is very crucial. the fact that the provisions of the posting directive apply to cabotage from day one is also to be welcomed. as regards the eurovignette directive, commissioner, the 75% zero-emission discount is perfect. we want that. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what lasts long, will finally be good, almost, dear wim van de camp. in any case, our mobility package is not a fluke. i thank the commission for the proposals on the eurovignette. they are a basic prerequisite for harmonised toll systems throughout europe. however, i can announce that we will be carrying out a thorough bureaucratic and cost check on all proposals concerning the financial burden of new environmental noise or congestion regulations. we cannot overburden an already heavily burdened industry and its users with ever new requirements. as a result, the inclusion of these externalities must not lead to higher costs for the industry. my second comment on the proposals on company registration and the posting of workers: we will look at this again, but we welcome the fact that the rules are finally clearer. the clear working time limits will help to curb social abuse, and we must then also reasonably coordinate this with the requirements of the posting of workers directive. the commission has to monitor the member states to see whether they are doing so. because they're really negligent about that. i have to criticize that. in summary: warning against excessive toll charges. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. thank you, thank you. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr pieper, you said the industry should not be burdened any further above all you meant the road. is that the same for everyone? you know that every locomotive, every train on every kilometre of track has to pay a toll that is unlimited in height. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road toll is not increased. i think that is unfair because 100 per cent of the rail network is paved and only one per cent of the road network. the environmentally friendly railway is made so expensive and the climate-damaging road so cheap. is that okay?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we agree that we must do more for the railways. but i think that the road transport industry is also heavily burdened by the green tax, the mineral oil tax and all the co2 requirements, and many companies are also highly competitive internationally, so we must not overdo it here. and if we add the external effects to the toll now, then at some point we have reached a limit when it comes to competitiveness. that's why we're gonna be looking at this very carefully.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the current case here in belgium has shown how companies use every loophole to pay social security contributions and taxes in europe. it is important that we take care of decent working conditions for all professional drivers in europe. it's good that you're finally taking on the mail-order company. and in addition to national controls, we also urgently need international labour controls. however, it is also important to me that all truck drivers are covered by the posting guidelines from day one. there must be no exceptions, because otherwise we will open up another avenue of circumvention. and if the wages of the host country were to be applied to cabotage, that would be a first step in the right direction, but only if the principle of preference is established. important: free rides for wage and social dumping must end. i hope that comes out in the end.
i have to say, madam president, yes, we want to reduce bureaucracy, we want to secure controls - because a law without controls is superfluous - and we want to increase security. there is a measure for this, because there is the tachograph, and all new lorries must have the tachograph installed. but with the existing trucks, you can take 15 or 20 years. so my question is: has this been discussed? we can then say: 10 or 15 per cent of the week you can be abroad. they would have control immediately, without red tape, and we would have guaranteed security and prevented abuse. because even with this law that you have now introduced, the question is: how can the abuse be prevented in practice? i don't see that yet. so why not a tachograph? it would be very simple, not a new technical solution, it would be possible. why doesn't it happen?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank our colleagues, mr neuser and mr wenta, who have really put a lot of work and energy into this work. i must say, however, that for us greens it is quite clear that we cannot accept this consensus. at present, the european interior ministers are deciding our foreign policy. they are turning development policy into a domestic policy instrument. the commission has the member states granting it, and the foreign office is even helping them here! the eu's own interests are at stake, with more money for the military, more money for the refugee crisis, more flexibility in regional priorities, but less for poverty reduction. that is what is reflected in this consensus, and we greens cannot accept that. we believe that development policy is a means of reducing the glaring inequalities and injustices in the world and a means of fighting poverty. it was said that this is also the case in the treaty of lisbon, in article 208. it doesn't say migration management or security policy. the consensus advocates have, of course, mentioned it, it's in the text: poverty reduction. yeah, sure, it's in there too. but we must not forget that the council and the commission are masters of rhetoric. we have tabled a motion for a resolution together with alde, gue/ngl and the efdd, rejecting the consensus and explaining why. i call on all those who are genuinely concerned with development policy to vote for this resolution tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more than ten years have passed since the first european consensus on development policy was signed. the world has changed a lot in this decade. the number of conflicts on europe's doorstep has increased rather than decreased. many millions have been forced to flee their homes because of war, civil strife or natural disasters, and terrorism threatens peaceful coexistence worldwide. development cooperation is facing many new challenges. this means that cooperation between donor countries needs to be more closely linked. but it also means that new forms of cooperation with developing countries must be found, including in the field of security, because poverty reduction also requires security. the new european consensus must provide the framework for this. the european parliament, as a co-signer, must be fully involved in the implementation of the development goals. thank you, thank you.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, the global strategy for the european union’s foreign and security policy identified state and societal resilience as one of the five priorities of the union’s external action, with enhanced attention to the eu’s near and broader neighbourhood. the foreign affairs council in october 2016 called for the five priorities to be swiftly translated into concrete policy initiatives and action. therefore, the council very much looks forward to receiving the upcoming joint communication by the commission and the high representative on the strategic approach to resilience in the eu’s external actions. the council stands ready to bring forward the discussions on this topic. the eu acknowledges the need to move away from crisis containment to a more structural, long-term and non-linear approach to vulnerabilities, with an emphasis on prevention and stabilisation. indeed, we need an integrated approach to conflicts and crises, for thus we contribute to enhancing the eu’s own resilience and that of our citizens. the nexus between security and development and between the internal and external dimensions will be at the core of the new approach, with full respect for the eu’s commitment to the observance of fundamental human rights and the rule of law. i look forward to hearing the debate today.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this opportunity to continue the conversation on our common work on our global strategy. the strategy does not belong only to the commission or the council. it is a strategy for the whole european union, for all our institutions, for all member states and, most importantly, for all our citizens. this joint communication on resilience is no exception. as you know, a wide consolidation process and a fruitful dialogue with parliament preceded the writing of the communication. it should be adopted at the beginning of june. in the second half of the month, high representative mogherini will present a report on the global strategy’s first year of implementation. the timing is no coincidence. when the work towards the strategy began, we decided that it should be not simply a security strategy but something much broader. the global strategy recognises that there is no security without resilience, human development, human rights and democracy for all, in europe and beyond. since then, much of the media’s attention has focused on the defence part of the social strategy’s implementation. with this joint communication, we want to stress that our work on resilience is just as important and is also moving fast. we have, of course, not started from scratch. the joint communication builds on the experience gained since the 2012 commission communication, the 2015 review of the european neighbourhood policy and the eu work on resilience on the ground. today’s eu resilience policies are supported by evidence of good practice from the sahel and the horn of africa. lessons learned will be set out in more detail in an accompanying staff working document. the joint communication will also ensure continuity with the 2013-2020 action plan for resilience in crisis-prone countries, which will continue to be implemented. when we evaluate the implementation of the action plan, we can see that progress has been especially positive in some thematic areas such as food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture, or in humanitarian programmes for a protracted crisis. we also see that significant changes are underway in other areas, such as urban resilience, predictable and flexible financing and social protection. at the same time, the old way of doing things is not enough. on the one hand, the challenges we face have evolved in nature and in scope. they require a stronger and more coordinated response from us. on the other hand, we finally understand that better coordination within the european union and with our partners can create new opportunities for our citizens and our friends. let me go through some of the new ideas that shape the joint communication. firstly, this is part of a global effort to improve the impact of our policies on sustainable development and resilience. the eu consensus on development also captures this idea and is key in this regard. with the joint communication we want to put at the core of our policies the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the 2015 paris agreement, the sendai framework for disaster risk reduction and the commitments to action made at the world humanitarian summit last year. the question now is how we secure progress towards these commitments in the face of a more fluid landscape of global challenges and risks. strengthening resilience is part of the strategic response to this challenge. it helps to promote a way of working that moves us away from crisis containment to a more structural, long—term approach to vulnerabilities with an emphasis on prevention. secondly, the joint communication aims at improving cooperation among all players inside our union. this includes all institutions, the member states and all political, development and humanitarian actors. for instance the joint communication will stress the need to streamline the current multiplicity of overlapping risk-assessment processes. such a streamlined assessment would integrate, in a more systematic and dynamic way, information from our diplomatic network and from humanitarian and development actors, as well as the specialised knowledge about the external environment held by the eu’s internal policies, dgs and agencies. with the global strategy, we have agreed on principles and objectives that we all share. we can now work to join forces towards pursuing these objectives as a true union. thirdly, in a world where power is much more diffused, we need to engage well beyond state actors. resilience has to be addressed at multiple levels – not only at government level but also inside societies and communities. local government and civil society are often the basis on which resilience can take root and grow at community level. we all know that, in every society, women are key factors of resilience as an engine for development, as problem solvers and as peacemakers. nowhere is this truer than in fragile or conflict—riven societies. the communication too will fully recognise this. when we talk about the resilience of states and societies, we know that the two must go hand in hand, so we will put more emphasis, not less, on engaging these non-state actors, including the private sector, as we are already doing with the european external investment plan. finally, our world is much more connected than it has ever been. clearly our work begins in the european union’s vicinity. this is not surprising, given the special political commitments of the accession process and the european neighbourhood policy, but we also know that instability in our neighbourhoods can easily spill out. the only way truly to strengthen our immediate region is to look further and think globally. we believe this joint communication will help us to be more effective in our action on resilience, to the benefit of our partners and also in the interest of investing taxpayers’ money more effectively. so we really look forward to parliament’s engagement towards stronger eu action for a safer europe in a more stable, prosperous and democratic world.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i very much welcome the joint statement by the european external action service and the commission on resilience as a strategic priority of the european union's external action, announced for june. the declaration can provide the basis for diplomatic efforts, foreign policy and development cooperation to work together in the future to implement development cooperation objectives in order to make them sustainable. the platform will also provide a better link between different policy areas such as humanitarian aid, disaster preparedness, climate change and development, and a better alignment between domestic and foreign policies. the discussion with the partner countries, particularly those of the cotonou agreement, on the continuation of cooperation beyond 2020, the end of the cotonou agreement, can be given new impetus and content, and development cooperation can thus be placed on a solid foundation. the european parliament's proposals for this process have been formulated in the motion for a resolution and the european parliament is ready to cooperate further in this area.
now we come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have seven word messages. i would like to ask everyone to speak. but the condition is that you all please stick to the one minute. catch the eye
member of the commission. – madam president, i have very much appreciated this debate and the pertinent questions. this all shows that the question of resilience is central to our work and that parliament is very aware of this. in addition to what i said in my opening remarks, let me add some more information about our approach, which is in the joint communication. it deals not only with security, but also with economic and environmental resilience and, furthermore, the concept identifies state, societal and community resilience, which is closely linked to humanitarian and development aid. these means contribute to building democratic states and support societies. we look forward to continuing the debate with you after the adoption of the joint communication on 7 june.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i do not have much to add to what commissioner jourová said in her introductory remarks and just now in the concluding discussion. both of us have, of course, taken careful note of this very useful discussion today. the council, for its part, in its conclusions from october 2016, has already highlighted its support for action at eu level on resilience. we very much look forward to the forthcoming joint communication by the commission, and the high representative and i look forward to continuing discussions in the european parliament on that matter.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 1 june 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. i support this resolution because i welcome the fact that resilience is a priority of the eu's external action. we need a coherent policy framework for the resilience of our external action, in particular through the promotion of sustainable development, human rights, political dialogue and conflict resolution.
in writing. the european union's resilience is tested by the multitude of international crises and conflicts. in these times, the eu must not only react, it must act, acting together and with determination in an increasingly complex world. with the migration crisis, the continuing tensions in eastern ukraine, the war in syria and the unstable political situation in north africa, it is no longer enough to confine ourselves to ourselves. freedom, security, democracy and human rights are not ends in themselves and need to be anchored in our neighbouring regions. less developed countries and fragile states need to be supported and encouraged. more than ever, therefore, coordinated eu action is needed to meet these challenges. the european union's resilience strategy shows the right way to enable our partner countries to withstand future crises through effective reforms. it enables democratic governments to respond swiftly and unitedly to maintain stability, freedom and security, to help with the migration crisis and to tackle the causes of displacement. it is therefore necessary to use it to strengthen the responsible action of our partner countries and to accompany and support them on the path of long-term and sustainable development.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on combating anti-semitism (2017/2692 ((rsp)).
there are people who speak only for themselves and not for a parliament, i would say.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the initiators of the resolution. i would like to expressly support the proposed definition of anti-semitism. i distanced myself from the claim that this definition would make it impossible to criticize the policies of the state of israel - that is not true. i say this as someone who grew up in a city where the first synagogue was built in 1104. for several hundred years, my hometown of speyer, as a member of the schum, was a stronghold of jewish learning. in 1349, the community was exterminated. 1435 once again banished from the city forever. it was only after the french revolution that a jewish community was established in my homeland. in 1933, it had 269 members, of whom exactly one jew survived the nazi era. today we have the fourth synagogue in the city. anti-semitism has a long history, it has deep roots. we must continue to fight him.
the commission has already done so. it's about anti-semitism, and we have two kinds of anti-semitism that we have to fight. the first is found in many muslim immigrants and also in muslim minorities in our countries. last week i was in hungary. i could visit a synagogue and a jewish home no police anywhere. this is completely unthinkable in berlin, where every synagogue is guarded by police, seven days a week, twenty-four hours a day. roads are closed for jewish services. i would like to see hungary's conditions for germany and europe. and it has to do with islam. the second type of anti-semitism is found in this parliament. they have decided to make labelling compulsory for products of israeli settlers. this brand is contrary to the free trade idea and is also forgotten by history. let us fight anti-semitism and let us start right here in this house - not with empty words but with action. jewish life belongs to europe and it is our duty to protect it.
i have to say, madam president, an anti-semitism report by a commission of experts published in april this year shows that jews in germany increasingly feel threatened by muslims. social media is a key element in spreading hatred and incitement against jews. a 2013 eu study itself found that the majority of anti-semitic attacks are currently perpetrated by muslims, followed first by left-wing extremists and second by right-wing perpetrators. however, given the still small proportion of muslims in europe, this population group is far overrepresented in the perpetrators. this is not what is being called for in today's resolution. instead, it seeks to promote the multicultural society, offering diversity as a solution. i know you mean well, but it's naive. i still remember the stumbling blocks in the sidewalks of my hometown of hamburg - small brass plaques that were installed there - to jewish families who lost their possessions and, in most cases, their lives in world war ii. let us not allow misguided tolerance to lead us to tolerate the attacks on our fellow jews. only a clear analysis will allow us to defend our values. otherwise, the commitment to european values will be reduced to mere rhetoric. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must say that i am very much shocked and disgusted by some of the things i have heard here in this chamber. it is unheard of to hear that anti-semitism is being fought with anti-semitism against other religions. to play one religion against another is the worst thing you can do. this is the opposite of what our basic values in the european union mean, which is to create community, to create peace among people and to ensure that we can live well together. my grandmother always told me never point a finger at anyone, because at least three fingers will point at you. and those people should also look at these three fingers that are pointing at them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by emphasizing that i am in favour of additional trade concessions to ukraine. i do not want to hide the fact that i believe it is urgent for the commission to present an interim report on european aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to help the countries of eastern europe to achieve their goals. that is why it is of the utmost political importance that we continue to do everything possible to ensure that the minsk agreements are implemented. but i think we must also examine the economic and social impact of the implementation of the association agreement, and ask ourselves whether the measures taken so far have been successful, and have been particularly successful, in promoting development in ukraine, or whether there are other measures that could be taken in a meaningful way. i believe it is important that the support should not be limited to oligarchs but should also improve the living conditions of a large part of the population. that is why i believe we need an updated basis for answering the question of what further support is needed for ukraine.
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate is about sri lanka. as you know, we are now granting the generalised scheme of preferences plus (gsp+) to sri lanka and thereby we recognise and support the historic political change in sri lanka which began with the election of a new president and government two years ago. that resulted in a government that launched an ambitious reform agenda, including reconciliation and justice, after the end of a very painful civil war. a major political priority was to re-engage with the international community and the eu, so sri lanka reapplied for gsp+ preferences. an unprecedented achievement was also that sri lanka decided to co—sponsor the united nations human rights council resolution on promoting reconciliation, accountability and human rights. i welcome the vote here in plenary on 27 april on gsp+, which, i believe, signals parliament’s ambition actively to engage with sri lanka. but of course this gsp+ is not a blank cheque. just as with other gsp+ beneficiaries, the eu intends to hold sri lanka to its commitment to improve sustainable development, human rights and good governance. sri lanka will now be covered by one of the fundamental pillars of gsp+, the monitoring mechanism, which implies three things. firstly, it implies written questions, the so-called scorecards, where we ask the gsp countries to detail how they are addressing shortcomings in the implementation of the relevant 27 international conventions. secondly, we have regular dialogues with the authorities, as well as gsp missions and regular interaction with, for instance, the international labour organisation, the various monitoring bodies, business, trade unions and ngos in order to have a broad and deep understanding of the situation in the country. thirdly, we have a dialogue on human rights. with sri lanka we already have a well—functioning working group on democracy, good governance and human rights, and that is broader than the gsp+-related human rights conventions. the information gathered during the gsp+ monitoring process is reflected in our biannual reports to parliament and the council. the next one will come by the end of this year. the european parliament plays – you play – a very important role in this monitoring process because you submit relevant information to us and you use your political leverage to call for visible progress in gsp countries. so we will take the monitoring of sri lanka just as seriously as we take it for all the gsp+ beneficiaries. we are actually planning to do a first monitoring mission as early as next september to include sri lanka in the 2018 gsp+ implementation reports. the fact that we are now granting them gsp+ status does not mean that we are fully satisfied with the situation. we have been explicit that there are a number of shortcomings that need to be addressed. i have raised this with the relevant ministers personally and we expect movement and progress from the government on these issues. some have doubts about the ability of sri lanka’s government to implement tough reforms. however, it is undeniable that the human rights situation has improved with the new government. we have also seen that the government is resolved to act on controversial issues, for instance repealing and replacing the controversial prevention of terrorism act, and ensuring that persons arrested are not denied access to legal counsel. so i am confident that this measure, gsp+ for sri lanka, can help the country to develop its economy on sound foundations that respect human rights and labour rights, and that are environmentally sustainable. this is, of course, needed in a country which is struggling to find a way forward in a process of reconciliation after a very troublesome and difficult past.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is the country ready for the gsp+ programme? the epp says yes. it is not just about reducing customs duties and facilitating access to european markets. with almost a third of exports, the eu is sri lanka's largest market. the aim is also to support reforms, such as strengthening the rule of law and advancing human rights, through a timely agreement. as a member of the south asia delegation, i visited sri lanka on several occasions and was able to see firsthand the efforts being made to bring peace to the country. mine clearance, rebuilding destroyed villages, resettling people in their former homes. sri lanka is committed to the un human rights council and has committed itself to reconciliation. they have achieved most of their mdgs in education, gender equality and health. but there are still problems: the eu has to take action to combat terrorism, to ensure that it is in line with international human rights law, to strengthen the rights of women and children, and to investigate the many allegations against the security forces. there's an aps+ control system. it has to be used. the eu's trading partners must not just put human rights on paper, but make them a reality in everyday life for all sections of the population.
the commission has already done so. aps+ is a check for the future, not payment for a deed in the past. so it's right that we give aps+ to sri lanka, but with clear monitoring. cecilia malmström said that a monitoring delegation will be sent to sri lanka in september. i would simply say that we must take special care to ensure that the ilo conventions 87 and 98, which have been signed and ratified, and which allow trade union involvement and collective bargaining, are respected. and we have a lot of incidents in sri lanka where that's not exactly what's happening. i would therefore urge the monitoring group to pay particular attention to four points. the first is the question of the formation of trade unions in companies. the 40% threshold is too high and the registration process is too complicated. that needs to change. secondly, we must ensure that the minimum age for union membership is the same as the minimum age for employment. it cannot be that younger workers are not allowed to join a trade union. thirdly, we must make it clear that the responsibility for labour relations lies with the ministry of labour and not with the board of investment and others. fourthly, we must ensure that trade unions and workers have the right to assert their rights in court. take this and try to get it through to the sri lankan government.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not prepared to accept this. so here we are, and the multiannual programme for the fundamental rights agency. we have to ask ourselves, what does this agency do? she does surveys and she does statistics. eurostat does the same. the question is, what does this agency provide for the public? my conclusion is that it does not add anything, and it does not add any social value. first and foremost, this agency is the operator and the pioneer of gender ideology and it is the enforcer of the lgbtiq lobby. that's what we're working for. the eu wants to use this fundamental rights agency to control values and standards and to shape values and standards at the expense of the general public. this value-planning economy is then called the protection of fundamental rights. that is why i think that this fundamental rights agency can be dissolved without any major loss.
i have to say, madam president, i consider this council decision to be a sham. how do you intend to prevent discrimination, including discrimination on grounds of worldview, political or other beliefs, when at the same time you are witnessing the organization of party suppression proceedings in eu countries such as greece and slovakia, and the persecution and imprisonment of people for their political beliefs and the destruction of their professional lives? one of the biggest political trials in the history of my country, the federal republic of germany, was called off yesterday. the proceedings against the aktionsbüro mittelrhein initially involved 26 defendants and lasted five years. many of the defendants spent nearly two years in pretrial detention without being charged. a similar political procedure was instituted in the federal republic of germany against the lawyer horst mahler, formerly a member of the red army faction, then a defence counsel in the npd ban proceedings. in 2009, he was sentenced to a total of 12 years in prison for expressing his opinions. today, the 81-year-old, who had his left lower leg amputated in prison, is to be transported across half of europe to spend the remaining three and a half years behind bars. such political procedures are proof that you, dear colleagues of the christian democrats and socialists, who prey on the peoples of europe, seem to be primarily concerned with silencing opposition, despite resolutions and decisions. you're gonna have to get serious about the fra. let's finally treat all people equally in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. new york times journalist thomas friedman once said, "the country that gets the greenest, the fastest, with the smartest technologies, that is the country that will lead the 21st century". given the disruptive impact that digitisation is already having in many areas of industry, we may have to add: the development of these areas must be given at least as much importance. we are actually dealing with a fundamental industrial revolution here. the european countries have a good chance of doing so, with their historically large industrial base, know-how and research landscape, skilled workers and a large internal market. but whether we can make effective use of these conditions together, and whether we can join the various major economic regions in the race for technological leadership in this area of digitisation, is still to be seen. i think we need a common european vision. i think we need european coordination. we need the right framework for infrastructure, investment and innovation. we need to focus on cybersecurity as a specific profile of european development, and we need to take into account the societal dimension. an integrated strategy for the digitalisation of industry must take into account the competitiveness of profit such as material intensity or more efficient use of resources as well as the sustainability that can contribute to digitalisation, for example in the field of energy transformation or the circular economy and good working conditions. for example, it can be used to create new worker-friendly working time models and it can even help bring back jobs that have been displaced to other countries. we must be very careful - this has been a common concern of all the groups in this house - that the economic dynamics that are developing do not come at the expense of the social and regional cohesion of the union. five points are important in the eu's common industrial policy for the digitisation of industry. firstly, it is indeed part of a european industrial policy and does not stand alone; that we focus on sme benefits in infrastructure investment and innovation; that we emphasize in cybersecurity, in the safe flow of data, that this is the profile that we particularly want in europe; the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new competition rules. the social challenges, the disruptions that can come with this, we cannot ignore. the report therefore identifies these conditions, of which education, training, further learning and training are certainly the most strategically important.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the development of 5g and the road to a gigabit society are top priorities for us social democrats, because comprehensive, future-proof networks are a prerequisite for economic and social participation. to do this, we must above all invest more in fibre optics. this is particularly true for germany, because we are far behind in the oecd rankings. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's telecommunications infrastructure. three points are particularly important to me in the digitisation of industry. first, we need to support smes in the digital transformation, for example by better supporting clusters or providing advice. secondly, for social acceptance, the involvement of employees is essential also more commitment from the companies. third, it was not the wannacry attack that first brought the importance of cyber security to the fore. in summary: one: ensure connectivity for all. secondly, smes and employees. third, to ensure trust through cybersecurity. these are the cornerstones on which we should now concentrate our attention.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to concentrate my closing remarks on four brief points. first of all, i would like to reply to mr krasnodębski, who rightly pointed out that we must be careful that europe is not divided again over these technological changes. if we do not want that, mr krasnodębski, then we must not call for a carriage-town mentality in the individual countries, but we must develop a european strategy together. secondly, i am particularly grateful to mr sógor for having mentioned the subject of small and mediumsized enterprises again. i think that's the key. thirdly, mr ferrand raised the question of protecting european industry. i am in favour of such protection. but i am in favour of protection without protectionism. mr ferrand spoke of protection against competition. i would rather talk about protection against unfair competition. fourthly, the area which i think has been most under-reported in this debate has been the area of social implications. i am very grateful to my colleagues on the left, mrs lópez bermejo and mr ferreira, for at least once having brought this to the fore. i am also grateful to mr salini and mrs werner for pointing out the problems of the labour market. but the commission, commissioner vella, has disappointed me. you have produced two sentences on the social implications of this issue in two papers. that's not very good. you'll have to sit down and think it over.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european commission has therefore presented its reflection paper on the reform of the euro area. the commission wants a common budget, eurobonds and, of course, a euro-treasury by 2025. the paper opens with the words: 'the euro is more than a currency. yeah, that's the problem. the commission wants the euro more as a tool than as a currency. the euro is supposed to bring peace, and it is supposed to bring the eu on a par with the us and china, and of course, in addition, to create the eu central state. what is lost sight of is what a currency is really for. people need a currency in which they can pay in the present and save for the future. i've been out of savings for a long time. we have zero interest, and now we have negative interest. a currency that cannot be saved must and will fail.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr paksas, it is not true that what we are discussing today is done in all the member states. we are dealing with a unique construction, which is not found in any other eu country, thank god. i hope that everyone will also resist the possibility of such a construction occurring again. we're dealing with the media today, but that's just the tip, the visible tip of the iceberg. i am concerned about the czech republic, a wonderful country with great people whom i admire and respect. it's not about her today. it's not about the czech republic. it's about this unique system. since 2014, the budgetary control committee has been forced to deal with the conflict of interest of the former czech minister of finance. as a major recipient of eu funds, it is also required to certify to the eu that the funds are being used properly. the eu could not tolerate this conflict of interests nor could the czech republic. as it turns out, neither is the finance minister, he's now a former finance minister. it is regrettable that he has not reacted for so long or only halfheartedly - as is the case with the eu commission, commissioner malmström, who is still watching, because perhaps the commissioner responsible also has a conflict of interest. i'd have liked to hear from you about that, too. according to my calculations, since 2009, the conglomerate around mr babiš has received at least five billion czech crowns, or eur 200 million, from eu funds. it is a fine thing when an already powerful and influential industrialist becomes even bigger and more powerful thanks to eu funds. we know that there have been attempts to influence small and mediumsized enterprises to run out of money, but the big ones get the money. what if olaf and the czech authorities finally published the results of their investigations into the storks' nest? the european commission must act. the conflict of interest, the past and its possible consequences must be worked out, regardless of whether he was or is minister of finance.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. a uniform visa system has existed in europe since 1995. however, despite the introduction of the electronic visa information system, paper documents are still required. not all visa categories are recorded electronically and even without access to electronic devices, border guards must be able to verify the authenticity at any time. this is ensured by the common security features of the visa seals, which are the same in all the states participating in the regulation. however, the existing safety concept is more than 20 years old and has only been slightly improved twice. experts have made it clear that current safety standards are no longer up to date. in short, the visas currently issued are no longer sufficiently secure against forgery. in recent years, high-quality counterfeits have also appeared. so there's a security breach here that we're fixing. today's vote gives the green light to a new security design for european visa stamps, which member states must introduce. a group of experts from the european commission has been working on the technical adaptations in recent years. new printing methods and more and more elaborate details will make the craft more difficult for counterfeiters in the future. to give just one example, some security features have been cut out in the past, but this will no longer be possible in the future, as they will be anchored in the centre of the mark. the commission had submitted its proposal in june 2015. my report on this was adopted by the libe committee by a large majority in february 2016. in april of this year we were finally able to reach an agreement with the council in the trilogue negotiations. i am particularly pleased that we have found a legally secure solution to allow ireland to participate, even though it is not part of the schengen area. i would also like to say that i would have liked a shorter transitional period during which the member states could still use the old visa stamps. sure, it takes time to tender, produce and distribute the new brands in our embassies and consulates around the world. a transitional period is undoubtedly necessary. the maximum of 15 months now agreed is, however, quite long and is the most we could accept. it is hoped that member states will not make full use of this transitional period and will close the security gap as soon as possible by introducing the new visa stamps. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to thank very warmly the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for the good cooperation they have shown, including the commission and the maltese presidency, because the agreement reached shows that we want to increase the overall security in europe together and this is a good step.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank all the members who took part in the debate. so, all in all, it turns out that we have a very large majority in this house to change the visa stamps, to make them more secure and to introduce these new security standards. this is, as many of you have pointed out, important indeed, because it is about knowing who is entering our common europe, how long they are staying. and of course, it is a question of jointly controlling our external borders. i think this is an important step and i would like to thank all the members very warmly once again for the good cooperation on this dossier and to take the opportunity to speak again to call on the member states to support this trilogue result as soon as possible after we have voted today and above all to do everything possible to ensure that these 15 months, which in my view are clearly too long, are not exceeded and that we can then quickly use these new visa stamps together.
madam president, it is a little late, but i just wanted to say that today is the official global day of parents. today was proclaimed by the un general assembly 2012 and honours parents throughout the world. the global day provides an opportunity to appreciate all parents in all parts of the world for their selfless commitment to children and their lifelong sacrifice towards nurturing this relationship. so, madam president, as a sign of honour, and with your permission, i would kindly ask all in parliament who are parents to stand up on their special day.
madam president, i would like to ask you to censor this so-called colleague who is insulting the whole house.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me tell you about a man from franconia, franz-josef, aged 50, who is disabled and has been unemployed for more than 20 years. since last year he has been working as a sales assistant in a company near nuremberg. the esf has made this possible. 20 longterm unemployed in the region have found a new job through the esf. why am i telling you this? the european structural funds make a lot of things possible. they are close to people and can actually make life worth living again. they are creating jobs, they are helping to tackle climate change, they are investing in research, they are building infrastructure, they are doing cross-border projects. the structural funds are a driver of jobs and sustainable growth. we have to keep this engine running! the debate on this has begun. and i confess, i'm worried about you. there are voices calling for the reduction or even abolition of cohesion policy. i can only warn you strongly against that. structural policy is not just a growth engine. it is also an expression of solidarity. europe, this abstract entity in brussels, in strasbourg, is actually being experienced and experienced on the ground through the structural funds. we can't let them ruin that for us! i have therefore written this report with the shadow rapporteurs. i think it is a good report, which reflects reality and the value of cohesion policy in particular, but at the same time it puts the finger in the wound. because of course there is room for improvement. it starts with the bureaucracy. potential applicants cannot be beaten down by forms and forms and then give up in frustration and decide not to apply at all. it is not possible for the administrative authorities to suffer from a constant fear of making a mistake and being called out for it. we need to simplify the rules. and we need more flexible rules. we and the regions must be able to respond to new challenges. perhaps in 2024 we will face completely new challenges which we will have to meet and overcome with the european structural funds. that is why we are calling for a simple reprogramming in the report. i would like to conclude by saying something about the vote tomorrow. i have already mentioned that the future of the structural funds is indeed at stake. i hope that parliament will send a clear and strong signal here for the maintenance of cohesion policy. at the same time, my colleagues from regi, in particular, know: there are two points of disagreement in the committee where our groups have very, very different views. the first concerns macro-conditionality and the second the so-called 'golden rule'. i shall be tabling amendments to both these topics tomorrow. i understand the wishes of the greens as well as those of some members of my own group who are against macro-conditionality but do not want to mention it in the report. but i also know that macro-conditionality has advocates in this house who want to reinforce it. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, with all my heart, to let us fight this battle later. let us send a strong signal tomorrow to the member states and to the commission: we, the european parliament, want a modern, strongly financed, unbureaucratized cohesion policy. we want a cohesion policy for all regions, and we want a cohesion policy that is made for the people, with simpler procedures, with better results. if we get a strong signal, we'll find the ear.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr. president, cohesion policy is not just an exchange of money, it is a lived european solidarity. cohesion policy can change the livelihoods of millions of citizens in the european union, create a better life for the many, not just the few – if it is done well. cohesion policy can let this continent grow together much faster and closer than before, but it can also tear it apart and that’s why we need to make it better. first of all, we need to invest in the future. big money, big business will not solve the problems that europe is facing today. that is why we do not just need any investment but sensible investments to fight inequality, to create jobs, to revolutionise our energy systems and to create a sustainable economy. secondly, we should not punish those who actually need our support the most. sometimes in politics we hide behind technical terms to cover up problems and controversies. ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ is one of those terms. most europeans probably don’t even know what this means and there are some politicians who actually don’t want them to know what it means, because they can have a devastating effect on their lives. it is very often punishing those countries who are in most need of european support. and anyway, why should a local ngo supporting long-term unemployed people pay for the possible mistakes that their government have been making. macroeconomic conditionality is simply wrong, and this parliament has been opposed to macroeconomic conditionality in the past and we should keep up this fight even if the council and commission are pushing us to change our position. lastly, we need to gear up the fight against fraud and corruption. cohesion policy is not only about economic and social affairs, it goes deeply into questions of rule of law. we cannot have europeans losing trust in the whole system because of those who are undermining its credibility. that is why we need a functioning european public prosecutor and mechanisms to end corruption. yes, there are forces in the council who want to get rid of cohesion policy altogether, but instead of being afraid of them we should pick up this battle; we should stand up and tell them: ‘bring it on!’ we are ready to fight for cohesion policy for the future.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the report by mrs westphal is an attempt by parliament to express a strong position on the future of european cohesion policy. we need that to be able to play a strong role in the negotiations. but we also need it to support the commissioner in her commitment to a real, good cohesion policy, not a cohesion policy umbrella programme. we need this investment programme as a way of showing solidarity between all the regions, and in all directions. we must support the fight against unemployment, and above all against the much too high level of youth unemployment. we need investment in the fight against poverty. and to do that, of course, it makes the most sense to really promote sustainable modern economic development and thus to give support above all to small and mediumsized enterprises. let me make one more comment on this. we must also, above all, support start-ups which cannot raise the risk capital on their own, whereas the european union is the only one willing to invest here. i was in northern sweden last week and found some excellent examples of where this is being done. in a sparsely populated region, ideas for the future are supported and implemented, creating jobs and prospects for a region which may sometimes have thought it was a little far from brussels and a little out of touch. we must do this in all regions. and germany is also in favour of a cohesion policy which supports all regions. if there has been a misunderstanding, this is the current situation, and we are fighting and arguing for it in germany too. we need infrastructure, we need to fight climate change, we need research and innovation, we need good ideas. and that is why we, as members of parliament, as representatives of the electorate, must fight for this cohesion policy and stand up for what really has a positive impact on people's daily lives. let us vote for this report by a large majority tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let's not kid ourselves. it is not just the brexit negotiations that are being used to attack or to make a mockery of cohesion policy. i would like to say this again: cohesion policy, as the only instrument of solidarity for the harmonization of living conditions, is not negotiable for us. for it to build its solidary foundation beyond 2020, we need at least three maxims. firstly, the eu's structural funds are not suitable as a punitive and coercive instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, i would again ask the commission to finally remove the macroeconomic conditions which are still attached to the funds and which are in fact preventing their sustainability. thirdly, the excess of financial instruments in regional and structural support have so far been insufficient to launch projects and innovations in the local authorities.
the rapporteur. the commission is not commissioner, yes, we are on your side. today, in fact, only cohesion policy-makers have spoken in parliament about a 'yes' to cohesion policy. but the truth is that there are others, including those in the commission. you know that as well as i do, and all my colleagues know it. there are voices that say clearly and very clearly and very loudly: we do not need this kind of policy in the future, and that there should be no more great solidarity within the european union in the future. i would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that the commission's white paper on the five scenarios is also available. there is also a scenario which speaks of a reduction in regional aid, a reduction in cohesion policy, and perhaps even the abandonment of this cohesion policy in the end. and my request - or what i am imagining - is that tomorrow there will be a large, broad majority in favour of this cohesion policy, of our policy, of the people on the ground, so that we can concentrate on the essentials. we have to be able to see the essence of the matter. i very much hope that next year the commission will make a legislative proposal, because we need it, because we have to work quickly here. and then, ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved exactly what we need: we need a strong majority to be able to negotiate. we must decide on macroeconomic conditionality in a different place and at a different time. we now need majorities, strong majorities, a large majority, so that the european parliament - and we who are directly elected - can be heard.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also thank mr affronte for his report, because it is very important that we also deal with the mediterranean fisheries. we have the basic regulation, which cannot be applied everywhere to the full extent as we have decided. the mediterranean region requires special attention. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. everything is protected, whether it's seals, whether it's cormorants or whatever. but who is protecting the fisherman? this is always the central question when we go to these events, where small and artisanal fisheries, the boat people and the coastal fishermen ask their questions: what is our future? we have an interesting debate today on cohesion policy - a solidarity policy which exists in the european union, that is, the improvement of economic infrastructure. there are also many things that can be done for fisheries: the fleet can be renewed in a certain way through the emff, fishing ports can be made more attractive for tourism. this is the very interaction that plays a huge role. and then, when we've done these things, we just have to look at how we can improve the data on individual stocks, with scientific guidance, as we do in many other areas, and involving the fishermen. that is the most important question of all. we can't make decisions over their heads. the small-scale and artisanal fisheries in the mediterranean must have a future!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we have a certain error of judgment here. the point is, of course, that women generally earn about 20% less than men, and that is why there is a real imbalance. but if we talk about the one problem, that women have children and therefore have time off from work, then this is the problem, the central problem throughout europe, in all 28 member states - still 28 member states. so this is about not recognizing family work. if work is paid for in the crèche, in the kindergarten or in the children's home, and is provided free of charge in the family, then there is an imbalance, and there must be a balance: that there is an educational salary that is adapted to this other, that family work is recognized, that there is also a reintegration into working life and that there is a tax split of the family, that children are included and therefore this imbalance does not arise in tax terms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. statelessness, 135 million children - that's a problem that speaks for itself. no property rights, no health care. but we have another form of statelessness, and it's rooted in our colonial history. the island of new guinea is divided between papua new guinea and west papua. west papua was a dutch colony, and when indonesia declared independence, indonesia was advised to take over the peninsula from papua new guinea. in the meantime 54% of the population have been displaced, transferred to the islands, made homeless, and in this form stateless. there's only 46% of the original population left, which has a high level of languages and tribes, so it's unlikely to be hard to clean up there. i think that's a mission that we as former colonial powers have to clean up and say, people, this state of affairs cannot be maintained.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the energy label is a european success story. it is present in every household and is known to most consumers in the eu. more than 80% of citizens are familiar with the energy label and use it when buying a new appliance. electrical appliances such as washing machines, refrigerators and dishwashers have become more efficient in recent years due to technological progress, so that most of them now have the best, i.e. a+++ class. the average price of washing machines is 73% of the total price of washing machines, so that it is difficult to distinguish the best machines from the worst. in addition, we have an inconsistent classification of efficiency classes today. for vacuum cleaners, a is the best, for washing machines, it's the worst efficiency class. and that is totally misleading to consumers. the energy label reform was therefore necessary to end the great confusion in the market with misleading energy labels. the new energy label, with a uniform scale from a to g for all product groups, will once again enable consumers to save electricity and money. a meaningful energy label can save up to eur 500 in energy costs per household each year, and 19 terawatt hours of electricity can be saved annually across europe thanks to the energy label. that's about the power of four nuclear power plants. the regulation also contains measures to strengthen market surveillance in the member states. firstly, there will be a publicly accessible consumer information page in the future. on this website, consumers can find out more, compare appliances or find out what the symbols on the energy label actually mean. the regulation also facilitates market surveillance in the member states. the fact is that national market surveillance authorities are now always required to request technical documents from manufacturers before they receive them. in the future, they will have immediate access to all the documents they need to carry out their very important control tasks on a secure platform. for us social democrats, consumer protection was very important. we have also argued in the negotiations that consumers should be compensated for the purchase of electrical appliances with the wrong efficiency class. the member states have unfortunately shown themselves to be far from being able to compromise on this point. i think that - as my colleague mr tamburrano has just said - is very, very unfortunate in the light of the emissions scandals. the european commission must now give a full answer to this - in my view - gap in the law.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by welcoming the excellent agreement reached on the energy labelling regulation between parliament, the council and the commission at the last trilogue in march. we have on our table today a key file from the consumer perspective: the energy label is known and used by over 85% of consumers in europe when they consider buying new household goods. energy labelling brings concrete monetary and energy savings. as a result of different measures taken in the context of the european union’s ecodesign and energy labelling policy, european households can save up to eur 500 per year on their energy bills. whilst these measures bring benefits at the level of individual households, they also do so at macroeconomic level by reducing europe’s energy bill through energy savings and by contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. in this way, they represent a direct contribution to the implementation of the paris agreement. furthermore, our industries are encouraged to develop increasingly energy efficient products strengthening europe’s competitiveness and our leading role in driving product energy performance standards at global level. focusing on energy efficiency first – whether it is for buildings, products or in industry – is more important than ever in order to ensure security of supply and a successful energy transition while promoting investment, growth and jobs. the revision of the framework legislation on energy efficiency for products was one of the first legislative initiatives of the juncker commission in the field of energy, adopted already in july 2015. the agreement reached on the energy labelling regulation represents a good balance between the interests of different parties. let me briefly highlight what i consider are the key aspects of our agreement. a pragmatic approach prevailed regarding the use of delegated acts for laying down product-specific labelling requirements. we now have a clear process for re-scaling the existing labels and returning to the more effective a-to-g scale, providing far better information to the consumer. there will be a product registration database that will facilitate the work of national market surveillance authorities and will make it easier for consumers to compare the energy performance of many household appliances. moreover, we have also succeeded in future-proofing the legislation by introducing provisions on software updates and smart appliances, and explicitly banning the use of defeat devices. finally, the label will be able to show information about, for example, durability or reparability, thereby further helping consumers to save money and at the same time contributing to the objectives of the circular economy. with regard to the issue of consumer refunds in the case of non-compliant labels, and in response to the oral question tabled by ms werner, ms rivasi, mr tamburrano and mr sylikiotis, the commission fully supports the principle of providing for financial compensation to consumers in the event of wrongly labelled energy-related products. the commission made a statement to that effect at the last trilogue in march which will be attached to the minutes of today’s vote. in this context, it has to be clear that the liability for a non-compliant label, and thus for providing compensation, lies with manufacturers – which are responsible for providing the correct label with their products – and not with retailers. therefore, horizontal consumer protection legislation may not provide the right legal framework, given that it generally does not address producers and covers the interaction of customers with their contractual partners. however, the commission is currently developing legal proposals to strengthen enforcement of european union harmonisation legislation for products. in this context, possible provisions on consumer compensation should the products they bought not comply with european union harmonisation legislation, including energy labelling, are under close examination. the commission aims to come forward with a final legal proposal on this before the end of the year. now, let me conclude by saying that, in the commission’s view, today’s agreement will strengthen and future-proof the iconic european energy label. with the newly agreed rules for labelling, this framework will continue to deliver towards our 2030 energy efficiency objectives. on the basis of all these elements, i am confident that the vote in plenary later today will give a strong backing to this important agreement that we have achieved together.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it was a difficult task, and the project and the commission's proposal have changed along the way. mr turmes has already pointed this out, and i think it was a good thing that we made some corrections. we all want to save energy, and the way to do that is by informing the public, so that consumers can make their own judgement and then decide to buy the device that consumes less energy, i think is a very smart and correct way. the story has been a success story so far. it wasn't a yes or no question. the question was: what should the labelling look like? do we have to bet on a new picture? or can we just keep working in the same frame? we then agreed to change it, to make it simpler, to make it more accessible, because the opinion prevailed that the citizens understood this better than these ++ regulations. the second was that we also wanted to increase efficiency and that in the implementation the citizens, industry and traders could also deal with it, and that is why there were different timeframes. i think it's a wise decision. it's the right thing to do. we have tried to keep the burden on those who have to relabel and adjust to new situations within a manageable framework. i think that is a pragmatic solution. it is usually good to make such pragmatic proposals. but in the long run, it's going to be the right way. it makes no sense to change the heating system immediately after you have made such a label. so it's nonsense to decide today which device has what efficiency and then to decide tomorrow, the next day, again. so you can't do it that way. the most critical point for me is the database. i'm not quite satisfied with that. it's a compromise, in that i accept it. it's about making data accessible to consumers, but not to competitors of companies. so privacy is there, and not just when it suits us, but privacy is there for companies that make these products. they have a right to keep their industrial data private, too. thirdly, i have not understood until today why the commission needs this data - it does not need it at all! if anything, it is of interest to the public and to the control of those - this is the most important thing - who check whether the labelling is correct. i am sure that this is a good decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let's say i give a short talk, almost a++++. the commission has rightly pointed out that this would be a problem under the current system of european energy labelling. no consumer has anything like a label which gives an a to all machines, whether energy-intensive or energy-saving, and which can only be distinguished by the number of plus signs behind it. in the future, there will be the recognizable c, d, e offenders again, and that's a good thing. it is also good that, at the instigation of my group, we were able to avoid the directive's anti-small business effects, such as the subsequent relabelling of already delivered appliances. this would have been an enormous burden, especially for smaller electricity retailers. overall, we have achieved a new label that is consumer and retailer friendly, and that is a good thing.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr gerbrandy. he's worked hard, and i think we've come to a good compromise. we should send him the proper greeting tomorrow, in his difficult situation, by a good vote. i would also like to thank all those who have helped, in particular pilar ayuso, the epp's shadow rapporteur. mr bas eickhout, we will vote on this result tomorrow, immediately after the debate on trump. i think that is right, we need a little time to sort this out between today and tomorrow, but if we have a large majority for gerben-jan gerbrandy's report tomorrow, then that is just the right signal for the usa and the whole world. we are ambitious in our proposal. we agree that the start date will be 2018 - this is more ambitious than the commission's proposal. we also agree that - even if this is a challenge for some countries, but it is internationally important - that no country will have a base year value that is less ambitious than the 2020 target - that is the right answer. but we're not overambitious. some member states face challenges: i am referring to ireland, spain and italy, and we are addressing this with the flexibility in the alde, epp and ecr amendments, which are better and more appropriate than what the committee on the environment has decided. so i think being ambitious but realistic is the right response to trump, not overambitious, because then we won't be taken seriously either. that is why i am calling for a large majority for the report and the amendments by the epp, alde and ecr. then we give the right answer to trump.
before i give the floor to my colleague, mrs mcguinness, i would like to take this opportunity to wish her a happy birthday. she is speaking on her birthday, but still has just one and a half minutes. (applause)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. today we are responding to the american president: we are committed to the paris agreement on climate change and we are implementing it in a balanced way. we are doing this in particular with the three proposals: co2 reductions in our industry, now the proposal today for the reduction of greenhouse gases in transport, buildings, waste and agriculture and in the third proposal the co2 absorption capacity of our forests, the so-called lulucf sector. all sectors are closely linked by so-called flexibilities and make sense only as a whole. the role of agriculture and forestry is very important. she's part of the solution, not the problem. in order to realise the potential of co2 reduction - which was 9% of total emissions of all sectors in 2012, for example - the sector also needs to be valued and incentivised to produce carbon credits and thus produce more intake than output. and he can't be punished. that is why i am in favour of the negotiated compromise for the 280 million tonnes of flexibility and i believe that this is a very good compromise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. climate action is a moral and political obligation today more than ever. parliament may not have presented a perfect compromise with the proposal for a climate regulation by 2030, but we have very clear guidelines for more consistent co2 reductions, including a focus on a long-term strategy by 2050, and also options for recognising the efforts of countries and also for incorporating flexibility so that countries are not overburdened. we need the council now, we need the member states so that this package can be put into effect very soon. because by the time of the bonn climate conference, by the time of cop23, the eu should have its package ready: the emissions trading, this climate regulation and also lulucf. this is how we can show the world that we're not just talking about climate change globally, but we're taking it seriously at home. our climate diplomacy must succeed in creating a global consensus, even if trump is against it.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened carefully to the debate today. i am encouraged by the members’ engagement with the issues, and i appreciate the commitment to maintain the european union’s role as a path-breaker in the area of international climate action. on the two non-ets proposals, the discussions have progressed well in the council, the technical work is nearly finalised, and i would like to thank the members for taking this important step in parliament, which provides crucial political momentum for this proposal. i am convinced that the council, under the leadership of the incoming estonian presidency, will be able to move forward swiftly before the next climate conference in bonn in november. the european union, as a driving force behind the high-ambition coalition, cannot come to bonn empty handed. i would like to give answers on some other points raised, because it was hinted by someone that the european union was not implementing the paris agreement. we should be clear on two things. the first is that we really are implementing the paris agreement. out of the 140 nationally determined contributions, the european union has the most ambitious one, namely a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. this is the biggest, most ambitious target. but we have something that makes us different from the rest – in fact, two things. we have launched all the legislation needed to achieve our targets, and i can assure mr eickhout that, in all the legislation the commission is launching, nothing is being watered down, and incidentally that goes for the decarbonisation study too. we will get there –taking into account also that paris is not an agreement which stops in 2030, it is a dynamic agreement with a five-year ambition cycle, and i am sure we will work in such a way in the coming years that we will bring on board our international partners, including even the usa. this is one president, but there will come other presidents and other administrations, and we also have to understand that we have seen a movement in the usa in response to mr trump’s withdrawal: a massive one from states, big cities and major businesses who have announced that they will do their part to help fulfil the original us commitment of reducing emissions by between 26% and 28% in 2025 as against 2005. so, we are implementing the paris agreement. we are serious in the legislation we are introducing, and what we are discussing today is of the utmost importance. establishing binding targets for member states was not easy in the discussions with them. establishing such targets in agriculture, in transport and in the building sector will be a difficult exercise, and this parliament has improved our proposals. with regard to the agricultural sector, as many of you – mr lynch, mr caputo, mr flanagan, ms mcguinness and others – have pointed out, agriculture and forestry are part of the solution, and not of the problem. in the discussions, we will have to look further at future reform of the common agricultural policy, to see how we will ensure it contributes to the solution and to maintaining a dynamic and prosperous european agricultural sector. so, my message today is one of optimism because i have just come from bologna and, with the environment ministers of canada, france, germany, italy, japan and the united kingdom, the european commissioners are reaffirming their strong commitment to the swift and effective implementation of the paris agreement, which remains the global instrument for activity in tackling climate change and adapting to its effects. we are committed to its implementation, our partners are committed to its implementation, the european parliament is supporting the commission in having the most ambitious legislation possible. i would like to thank all of you who took part in this debate, and particularly to thank mr gerbrandy, whom i am missing today, for the work he has done and for the good work i am pretty sure we will do in the trilogues.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 14 june 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my group wants a strong eurozone. the euro is one of our greatest achievements, but it needs a creative environment. it needs political instruments, it needs a framework within which not only the currency but also the economy can develop. we congratulate the commission on the fact that it is moving in the right direction with its paper. we need more investment, we need better coordination of our economic policies, we need responsible institutions, and we need a process that will drive forward the modernisation of our economies, the modernisation of our societies - economic modernisation, ecological modernisation and social modernisation. yes, we want a semester that has binding goals. it is not possible to explain why the rules of budgetary discipline are binding, but why it is not binding to fight youth unemployment, or why those who are the fastest in modernizing their education systems, the fastest in ensuring that the jobs of the future come to us and that young people are qualified should not be rewarded. they are treated in our systems as those who put the money into a headless bureaucracy. we need to sharpen our tools so that they can distinguish between good and bad policy. this is what our common policy framework must do. we need a common budget to support these initiatives. and we need that budget fast. all this will only be possible if the european parliament is involved in a meaningful way. i understand the invitation from the commission. we want to accept this invitation and we look forward to a - hopefully - effective and rapid process of strengthening the european union and in particular the eurozone. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i listened carefully, and then the final statement came, so to speak: we need a budget. i assume that you mean a budget for the eurozone. where's this coming from? who fills this budget? who pays the taxes that go into this budget? should the european union be given a tax collection power which it does not have so far, or will this be done by the member states? i think that's a bit abstract and i'd appreciate a little concreteness.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr lambsdorff. in your present capacity, and in your potential future capacity, you can make a small contribution to making it work. my group has made sufficient proposals to that effect. we are the ones who have revealed how many billions of taxpayers in the european union are lost every year. we would like to raise this billion with your help. in this respect, we would also be very pleased if your group would no longer be making the proposals that were made yesterday, for example, in the vote on this matter, where the country-by-country principle is being undermined and we are no longer able to see where taxpayers' money is being hidden. so there is a lot you can do to help these initiatives, and we hope for your cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the reflection paper states that the euro is more than a currency. yes, that's right. it is also true that a monetary union which is wrongly constructed is damaging and dividing europe. you said it yourself. the preface reads: 'european monetary union is not yet sufficiently equipped to halt and reverse the social and economic drift of the euro countries resulting from the crisis.' that's a key phrase. what's the reason? we have a wrong relative exchange rate within the eurozone. the euro is too low for germany, too high for the countries of the south. in germany, we're going from record to record. in the countries of the south, unemployment remains at a sadly high level. now draghi has tried to keep it together with a zero-interest policy. but eventually, he's gonna have to go back to normal interest rates, and then it's gonna fall apart. what are you doing now? the next phase of the community. i say to you: you cannot eliminate differences in development capacity, in competitiveness, by pooling risks. and then your paper ends with a wonderful sentence: "it is time to put pragmatism over dogmatism". who is dogmatism? how about mrs. merkel? what does that mean? pragmatism means, in the end, that we no longer make clear-cut solutions. and with this policy you will not save europe, you will not save the eurozone, but you will destroy the european union. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european commission's reflection papers are a valuable contribution to the debate on the deepening of economic and monetary union. this is a debate which the european institutions must conduct together. we need a broad consensus on the direction of the impact and the order of the next steps. the only way we can do that is by building up the credibility of the system. this means that we must deliver on the basis of the instruments currently available to us. that is certainly the starting point, and the commission rightly acknowledges that. the european economic and monetary union has its own architecture. the european commission is right when it says that we should not copy national or international models. we want to build on our existing system by strengthening the application of rules, better linking national reforms with european controls and resources, seeking upward economic convergence and thus greater competitiveness, and strengthening the decision-making processes in the union, and above all making them more transparent. the completion of economic and monetary union must remain open to all eu member states. membership of the euro should not become a symbol of division but a symbol of prosperity and competitiveness. the commission is therefore right to stress that continuous transfers do not contribute to the stabilisation of economic and monetary union. i think we must avoid moral hazard and, as a key word, respect the contractual limits to which we are all bound. we believe that this is the basis for all further considerations. the commission is unfortunately not taking any chances. i am, for example, missing a proposal for a law on state insolvency. the exchange has just begun. i believe that we should all work constructively and actively towards the further development of economic and monetary union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, we believe that the commission has put forward good proposals here and that they point in the right direction. we need more of a common economic and financial policy in the eurozone there is no way around that if we want to keep the whole thing together. this means that the ball is now in the court of the member states. the member states must now finally - after years of dysfunctional cooperation behind closed doors in the eurogroup - get back on the ground of european democracy and come forward with strong proposals of their own, as we are now doing. the proposals you have put forward must now also produce results. the european central bank can no longer be solely responsible for holding the eurozone together. the damage that this creates is ever greater and irresponsible. the answer to that is that we must come to a common economic and financial policy in europe, rather than insulting mario draghi. i also think it is right that you have not introduced a common procedure for the insolvency of member states, as mr balz has suggested, without at the same time allowing any transfers. why would you do that? this would again split the eurozone, because of course the weaker countries would have to bear correspondingly higher burdens for their public debt. we are thus tearing the euro apart instead of holding it together. the point now is that these reforms must not be implemented intergovernmentally - around a deepening of the european stability mechanism, as mr schäuble would like - but within the framework of the european treaties: a common budget, a euro-finance minister, an eu commissioner who also chairs the eurogroup, and more social responsibility and investment. we can do all this within the framework of the treaties. let's get to it.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, many thanks to the commission. it is an important debate that is being held here. it is a good debate with different ideas, and we are returning to the starting point of monetary union, namely convergence, and to the question of how we are going to achieve convergence, that is to say, the growth of the economies in this single currency area. the question that arises, and which is often asked with regard to germany, is whether we can achieve greater convergence by weakening the stronger members of monetary union. i think this is the wrong way. we must ensure that weaker members can be included, and this requires a determined policy of reform. i am optimistic about france. i am not so optimistic about italy, which worries me greatly. the second point is stabilization. there can be innocent shocks, asymmetric shocks. that is why it is right to upgrade the european stability mechanism. but, and this is the third point: rules are only obeyed if the incentive systems are right. it is therefore impossible to build such a system without state insolvency law. because without that, there's a lack of incentive for bad policy, as far as sound public finances are concerned. but we need sound public budgets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the problem is indeed convergence in the eurozone convergence that is not taking place. we have no convergence, count lambsdorff, we have divergence in the eurozone. over the last decade, several countries in the eurozone that are poor have become poorer. the euro area has seen an increase in income inequality. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken the necessary steps. but this is a symptom-cure, it doesn't address the cause. the reason is that productivity trends differ from one country to another. we cannot simply wish for them to experience the same productivity developments everywhere, but we must recognize that they are different and that either wages will develop very differently, which will lead to severe tensions in the eu or at least in the eurozone, or we will have to abolish the euro so that the devaluations that led to convergence in the eurozone in the past can resume. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr lucke, i agree with you on many points. italy is the best example: there has been no productivity growth for 20 years. it is because of labour market policy, it is because of education policy, it is because of the refusal to reform, it is because of a social democratic understanding of politics in general, including the social partnership. i agree with you on all of these points. but if the commission had now said on its own: 'we must settle this whole thing with a transfer union', i would have criticised it as strongly as you have just done. the commission has not done that, but has started a debate on how we can ensure that convergence finally takes place through democratic control. do you agree?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr lambsdorff. i do not agree with you that democratic control will lead to convergence. i am in full agreement with the criticism you have made in your speech. but i don't think that we can get through structural reforms to the point where the countries that are having difficulties in the eurozone now become like germany or denmark or the netherlands. it is a false approach to think that we can simply transfer what we have of structures in the advanced countries of the eurozone one by one to other countries and that they will become like us in the long run. i do not think we can continue with this approach. we must respect and accept the heterogeneity and diversity of the countries in the euro zone.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would point out that after intensive discussion this parliament took a position on glyphosate and adopted that position by a large majority. this is in contrast to the council, where many member states, including my own, have shunned it. for political reasons, there was no position. and i think we should build on that and the commission should listen more closely than it has to what parliament has said on this subject. glyphosate is a problematic substance. if at the beginning of the debate on the commission's proposal some of the commission representatives said: 'you can drink it like water', then that was certainly wrong. you have to be very careful with it. but if it's used carefully and if it's only used in certain areas, then glyphosate is acceptable for a limited time. the european parliament has decided this, and the fact that there are few alternatives at present has certainly played a part in this. i therefore agree with mrs delahaye when she says that we must do research and bring new alternatives to the market. but this takes time, and we cannot convert europe completely to organic farming in the short term. so, for a limited time, but that doesn't mean 15 years, that doesn't mean 10 years. parliament says seven years maximum. and we are more than the commission has proposed for many restrictions. it's particularly important to me that the pre-harvest treatment be stopped. there is still the practice of killing the crop with glyphosate before harvesting to make the harvesting process easier. this is certainly not what we can represent to our citizens in good conscience. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. and, commissioner, do not wait for the council; it will not help you in this matter. you can find out from parliament.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the same subject, similar debate have we really learned anything new? echa has confirmed that glyphosate is not carcinogenic not a new finding for me. i am confident in the work of efsa and also of echa. it is therefore right that the commission now proposes a modified act. in my view, the commission should take another close look at the european parliament's 2016 resolution. it was passed by a large majority in this house. we have voted in favour of allowing glyphosate for another seven years, but with clear limits on its use. i think that this will allow for more biodiversity, especially if we limit it to pre-harvest treatment and do not use it in kindergartens or public places. i think that farmers still need glyphosate, the active ingredient and the appropriate mixtures, because there are no real alternatives. i think that the policy would be well advised to rely less on emotions and more on scientific evidence. but i also think it's right to do more research on this, so that we can have alternatives at the end. i would like the member states not to repeat the theatre they have been playing in the council last year. i would also like my own country to take a clear position on this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i thought we still had the precautionary principle. there are still unresolved doubts about glyphosate, and you are consistently ignoring them. they also ignore the fact that in the studies, certain studies were not included in the review process at all, but only studies prepared by industry. we must seriously consider whether our testing method is still up to the new standards. and you have no doubt. if you've read the monsanto papers from the us, you might also have some doubts that the process was manipulated a little bit by monsanto, to put it mildly. and your consequence of that is not a limitation at all for glyphosate, not even in pre-harvest application. you completely ignore the threats to biodiversity, and you say, business as usual, it can go on. it can't be! they also ignore the fact that almost a million people are collecting signatures to get a debate here in the european parliament again. you are completely ignoring that too, and that is not a good democratic measure.
the commission has already done so. in march 2015, the iarc concluded that glyphosate could be carcinogenic. only six months later, efsa concluded that a carcinogenic risk to humans from glyphosate was unlikely. so there are two different assessments of the health risks. this has led to uncertainty and a justified distrust among the population. in addition, the individual investigations carried out by efsa and the background to this study are not fully available to the public and to us. it has rightly been suspected that monsanto may have had a hand in this. the commissioner, in order to regain confidence, needs only complete transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i appeal to your conscience to apply the precautionary principle.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we've exchanged many arguments. i can't support all of them, but i can follow many. i thank you, commissioner, above all for your very detailed reply at the beginning of this debate in parliament. i think we have to take a very hard line on one criticism, and that criticism concerns our european agencies, namely echa and efsa. it says that monsanto's self-interested studies were brought into this. this reproach must be cleared up, also and above all in the interests of our own european agencies. that is why we have to discuss this, and that is why we have to argue with each other and see that we can do this much better in the future. this includes - as frédérique ries has already mentioned - a good equipment for the agencies we have in europe.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the draft resolution before this house identifies a number of key issues which i would like to endorse. first, the need to address urgently a serious upsurge in violence and human rights abuses; second, the need to implement in full the political agreement of 31 december 2016, and to create the right political atmosphere for credible, transparent and competitive elections; third, the importance of working closely with the african union and regional organisations; and fourth, the importance of support to the united nations. regarding the united nations, i share the deep regret of this house at the assassination of the two members of the united nations group of experts and their congolese colleagues in kasai in march this year. i express my sincere condolences to their families, friends and colleagues. but let me repeat once again that the agreement of december 2016 is the only pathway to a democratic and peaceful transition of power. the catholic bishops’ conference provided leadership in facilitating this agreement and they deserve our particular recognition. but for that agreement to succeed, actors on all sides of the political spectrum have to act in the national interest. this is the only way to deliver elections before the end of 2017, and it is the only way to restore full constitutional legitimacy to drc. regrettably, it is clear that the inclusivity required for a successful transition has not yet been achieved – this is the reality – in particular as regards the composition of the current government and on the leadership of the national council for the monitoring of the agreement. the intimidation and arbitrary arrests of opponents and activists, and politically motivated prosecutions, do not contribute to such an environment. i agree with the call made in the resolution for the need to ensure that investigations of violence and killings take place quickly and that they are demonstrably independent and transparent. this is an issue that we will be pursuing bilaterally with drc, but also at multilateral level, and particularly in the current session of the united nations human rights council in geneva. freedom of expression, including for the independent media, and freedom of association and assembly, must be guaranteed by the authorities. now, unfortunately, we see too many restrictions. as you know, my own responsibility covers humanitarian affairs. we cannot ignore the human impact of the outbreaks of violence in all three kasai provinces, and the ongoing threats in other parts of the country where armed groups are active. the violence affecting civilian populations has already resulted in over 3.7 million refugees and internally displaced people, including 1.1 million in the kasai region. we are in constant contact with the humanitarian actors on the ground, msf and the red cross. echo flight, the eu’s humanitarian air services, stands ready to intervene and provide them both with support when needed. we are also in contact with other donors to coordinate the next steps of the response to the growing needs in kasai. this comes on top of our presence in the rest of the country, where we mobilise eur 23 million this year for a wide range of humanitarian activities. in responding to the political crisis and the violence and human rights abuses that it has generated, on 29 may the eu adopted individual restrictive measures against nine individuals. i want to be very clear about the use and context of these sanctions. they are not intended to replace justice – they are a tool intended to encourage a change in policy or in behaviour. sanctions are reversible – we would be open to lifting them if those concerned were to demonstrate that they had turned away from violence. and sanctions are adaptable: the european union would consider further listings for those – at any level, including the political level – who would obstruct the way to a peaceful and consensual end of the crisis. i would like to end on a positive note. we believe there is potential for an african-led solution, in line with un security council resolution 2348. we are encouraged by the interest shown by the african union, and by regional organisations such as the southern african development community. we will support them as we also continue to definitely support monusco, insisting on an energetic execution of its mandate. resolution 2348 must be implemented in full and the drc authorities should allow monusco to fulfil its entire mandate with the necessary resources. this includes the protection of civilians in the areas most affected by violence. we must also not forget the risks presented to drc’s neighbours and the need for contingency planning. we will also maintain support to drc and its people through projects and programmes. and we are, of course, if requested, ready to support the preparation of elections if progress is achieved, such as the successful completion of the voter roll, and a realistic calendar and budget. once again, please remain assured that despite the difficult situation, the european union is ready and willing to take part in political and policy dialogue to the benefit of the rights and aspirations of all congolese citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner very much for his statement, and i can say for my group that we share his viewpoints and demands. the situation in the drc is indeed terrible and it has been this way for quite a while, and i am deeply concerned about the handling of the current issue with regard to the kasai province. you have rightly said that we have got 3.7 million internally displaced people, including the ones in the province of kasai. just three weeks ago, i had the privilege to speak as chair of the delegation for relations with the pan—african parliament (dpap) in the pan—african parliament in midrand, and i referred specifically to the situation in kasai. after me, there were two other speakers from the drc, and not a single one had the feeling that they would have to address this burning issue. that shows, in my mind, the attitude of those who are in charge there. as we speak, we’ve had a minister from the drc, liyota ndjoli, who was contacting different meps here today, and i’m sure we have all given him the same message: fulfil the agreement of 31 december; prepare the elections properly. there is no way out, and if he says ‘well, perhaps a month or two later’, i will not accept; i think we should not accept anything unless there’s really a broad consensus with all political stakeholders. when it’s about one month more at the end i wouldn’t bother, but i have the feeling rather that mr kabila does not, in real terms, have a true intention to leave his office and his position, where he still sits, so we must keep up our pressure and also apply the sanctions that have been referred to and make it very clear that there is no alternative to fulfilling what has been agreed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. since the escalation of the armed conflict in yemen in 2015, the humanitarian catastrophe has worsened dramatically. seven million people are in acute danger of starvation. more than two million children suffer from malnutrition. there's an epidemic of cholera going around. in view of this escalating disaster, i very much welcome the decision of the european union at the yemen donors' conference to provide additional aid of 116 million. the famine in yemen is a war-related famine. but humanitarian aid is not enough. the eu must act more decisively to end the armed conflict. in concrete terms, this means that there can be no arms supplies to the parties to the conflict, including saudi arabia. the european parliament already voted in favour of an arms embargo against saudi arabia in february 2016. nevertheless, many eu countries continue to supply arms to the gulf state. this has to stop! anyone who supplies weapons to warring parties risks complicity in war crimes. the eu must support a political solution led by the un. you, commissioner, have mentioned many such initiatives. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of the 10 journalists held captive by houthi fighters for two years.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is good that we are discussing today in the plenary the implementation of the guidelines on freedom of expression, and it would also be good if the council and the eeas were to look at the results of the implementation of all the thematic guidelines on human rights and also the guideline on international humanitarian law on a regular basis. the right to freedom of expression is violated in all regions of the world. criticism of government actions in public is often met with defamation, persecution, and threats by government officials. i was able to get a clear picture of this during my recent trip to singapore, bangkok and cambodia. paragraph 50 of the guidelines states that arbitrary restrictions on freedom of expression and violence against journalists and other media workers are to be assessed when suspending eu cooperation or financial aid. i ask you now: how often and in which countries has this paragraph 50 been applied? and i ask you, commissioner hahn, on a specific country example: how is it possible that in egypt, where local journalists cannot work freely and independently without being threatened and persecuted, the financial aid has been increased and eu cooperation has been intensified - in stark contrast to the guidelines on freedom of expression?
i have to say, madam president, freedom of expression: this morning my friend horst mahler, aged 81, was handed over by the hungarian authorities to german police officers in hungary so that he could be returned to prison, the brandenburg penitentiary. what was his crime? he was sentenced to 12 years in prison in 2009 for his opinions. in prison, his left foot was amputated in 2015. and he didn't want to die in prison, he wanted to die in freedom that's why he went to hungary. do you know, commissioner, that in germany there are 12 000 investigations per year into freedom of expression? that there are currently about 400 right-wing citizens on the run and escaping punishment simply because they expressed their free opinion? please make sure that these human rights guidelines on free speech apply to all eu citizens, online and offline.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has been a very useful exchange and i would like to thank the honourable members for the interventions. i wanted to answer ms schaake but she is no longer there, so maybe we will have another opportunity to clarify this. frau lochbihler, sie haben mich wegen ägypten gefragt. also ich kann ihnen nur sagen: ich weiß nicht, woher sie die annahme haben, dass ägypten mehr geld bekommt. fakt ist, dass wir mit ägypten sehr intensive gespräche wegen der menschenrechtssituation haben, wegen der situation der zivilgesellschaft. es gibt eine spezielle budgetlinie, die sich zusätzlich zu den üblichen zahlungen an ägypten mit der unterstützung in migrationsfragen beschäftigt. das ist aber etwas, das teil der generellen finanziellen unterstützung nordafrikanischer staaten ist. umgekehrt kann ich berichten, dass es verschiedene programme gibt, etwa open media hub oder medmedia-programme. das sind programme, die auch dazu dienen, etwa in ägypten unabhängigen journalisten und media outlets zu helfen, ihrer arbeit nachzukommen und sich auch persönlich professionell zu qualifizieren. finally, let me stress that cohom is committed to ensuring the effectiveness of the guidelines and will hence continue its yearly evaluation of guidelines. we remain committed to continuing to engage and work with the european parliament on the implementation of this guideline. it was not the last, and it will not be the last, discussion on human rights guidelines on freedom of expression online and offline; this is something which will stay with us, unfortunately. i think we all should be sensitive and alert on this subject, and should have a regular exchange about the state of play in this area.
rapporteur. – madam president, after the united kingdom decided to leave the european union, people not only in europe but throughout the whole world have heard and read a lot about article 50, which sets out the précis of how a member state may withdraw from the european union. i believe that we should scroll back one paragraph and focus on article 49, which provides the legal basis for any european state to join the european union. that said, the message of our debate tonight on the european parliament’s report on serbia should be clear: serbia doesn’t only have a european perspective; serbia has a european future. this country is clearly moving towards the european union – so far, eight chapters have already been opened in the negotiation process, while two have already been provisionally closed. i strongly welcome that commissioner hahn – who i would once again like to thank for his outstanding commitment and engagement in the region – announced this week in belgrade that two more chapters will be opened this month. there are three points which are of utmost importance on serbia’s path towards the european union that i would like to mention. firstly, the rule of law: i would like to use this opportunity to recall that serbia’s progress on the rule of law chapters 23 and 24 remains essential for the overall pace of the negotiation process. judicial independence has to be assured in practice, because corruption and organised crime still remain an obstacle – not only to serbia, but to all western balkan countries’ democratic, social and economic development. on another point, i agree with the european commission and the council that, to guarantee unhindered exercise of the freedom of expression and media, shortcomings in this area should be addressed as a matter of priority. secondly, serbia’s economy. the criteria for membership are intended to help serbia to stand on its own feet and become fit for our common market and for the global economy in general. serbia made progress with regards to the budget deficit and restructuring of publicly owned enterprises. the government in belgrade is implementing an impressive economic and structural reforms agenda which has already yielded results in terms of growth prospects and the reduction of domestic and external imbalances. moreover, this country has demonstrated its commitment to the eu connectivity agenda, which we aim to enhance further at the trieste summit in july. thirdly, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations: the government in belgrade has made very important symbolic, but also substantial, steps to contribute to a better understanding and cooperation in the region. we all know that serbia’s eu accession process is closely linked to the normalisation of relations with kosovo. it is not only about concluding agreements; it is more about implementing them. as soon as serbia has a new prime minister, and as soon as kosovo has a stable government, both parties should continue to move forward with the full implementation of all the already reached agreements, and that in good faith and in a timely manner. both sides, pristina and belgrade, should now take clear steps to show their commitment and credibility. a final remark: i am convinced that this resolution is able to find the right balance between praising serbia for adopting important reforms and pointing out what remains to be done. as we are having our political discourse, we should not forget that we are talking about changes that demand a lot from the serbian citizens. i am well aware that this process goes far beyond the purely economic transformation – it is a truly social transformation – but i am convinced that this reform process is worth every effort.
ladies and gentlemen, that was the last regular speaker. the president may, in accordance with rule 162 (6), use a 'catch-the-eye' procedure. we are well beyond our speaking time, and we have far too many messages. i shall therefore give the floor to one speaker only, who could not be present for logistical reasons: igor šoltes has the floor for one minute. catch the eye
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this very interesting debate, which reflects the importance of the enlargement process and of our relations with serbia as a driving force in the region. i fully understand the sensitivity of bilateral issues. clearly further efforts will be needed to overcome the legacy of the past. at the same time, we should ensure that bilateral issues do not hamper the firm prospect of eu membership, which continues to drive transformation and anchor stability and security in serbia and elsewhere in the region. this is more important than ever at a time when our eu’s commitment to serbia and the region's eu path are questioned by some people. at the same time, of course, we should focus on good neighbourly relations, democratic values and the respect of the rule of law, protection of national minorities, freedom of expression and of the media, ability to address the legacy of the past and war crimes issues. those are core european values and are simply not negotiable. this is why they are key conditions on serbia's eu path and i can reassure you that the commission is committed to continue monitoring serbia’s focus in this respect under our chapter 23 negotiations and to continue supporting serbia's efforts.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, i wish to thank you for the very useful debate. i have listened carefully to the views expressed and we look forward to continuing this constructive dialogue and engagement. i would like to assure you that when moving ahead on the accession process with serbia, we will closely monitor its progress, paying particular attention to the areas of the rule of law, the belgrade-pristina dialogue and other important issues mentioned here today. in this regard the presidency hopes to hold an accession conference this coming week on 20 june.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank all the speakers in the debate this evening. i think that was a good, very critical, but at the same time constructive debate on the political situation in serbia. the serbian ambassador to the european union, mrs ana hrustonavic, whom i also warmly welcome in the gallery, certainly listened very carefully to all the arguments. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs of the various political groups for their once again good and trusting cooperation. i believe that we have succeeded together in presenting to this european parliament a report which paints a realistic picture of serbia. and i think the message of the debate tonight was - despite some differences of opinion on the details of serbian domestic politics - the vast majority here in parliament support serbia on its way to our community of nations in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 14 june 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report of ms ulrike lunacek, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's 2016 report on kosovo (2016/2314 (ini)) (a8-0062/2017).
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. i would like to begin by thanking mrs ulrike lunacek for her dedicated work. i think we should already acknowledge that this country has managed to hold the third free and fair elections since independence in 2008 once again. the result must not lead to a political deadlock. and that is something which worries me, given the election result and the composition of this parliament. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the new government in pristina should be pro-european in the interests of all kosovars and have a robust strategy for the future of the country. i believe that there are three areas in which particular progress is needed. firstly, as has already been pointed out, kosovo is the only country in the western balkans which still does not enjoy visa-free travel. this, of course, leads to frustration among people. the new government in pristina and the parliament should finally meet the criteria for visa-free travel. this includes first of all the ratification of the border agreement with montenegro. secondly, the new government should adopt important economic reforms as well as reforms to strengthen the rule of law. progress in the fight against corruption, bribery and organised crime is of course a logical and important condition for joining the european union, but it is also the basic condition for further investment from other countries, for example from germany. thirdly, the dialogue with serbia should be continued and deepened, and the agreements already reached must be implemented. this includes the establishment of a serbian association of municipalities in northern kosovo. relations with serbia play a key role both in the relationship with the eu and in stability in the region as a whole.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commitment made at thessaloniki in 2003 to grant the western balkan countries access to membership of the european union is certainly still valid. and at the same time, the principle is that they have to meet the conditions. we know that we are considering this in some respects because of new influences coming from the islamic world, because of russian activity in the balkans and because of the need for a high degree of patience for geostrategic reasons. but this must not be a reason for not making the necessary progress. i thank ulrike lunacek for once again doing her bit for kosovo in this committed way, but we always say: progress must be made in the fight against corruption, in the rule of law and so on and so forth. that means, in translation, that there is still corruption, there is still no full rule of law, and so on and so forth. we have become accustomed to a language which, in terms of the real situation in these countries, is unsurpassed in beauty, and then you can understand that some people lose patience with what is going on there. i would therefore like to stress that there are risks of explosion throughout the region and concerns that we have not had in this way in the past, but that we should nevertheless ensure that certain principles are respected. visa facilitation can only be granted if the conditions are met. i would therefore ask the future government and any coalition partners of the government of the strongest party to only conclude coalition agreements accepting the border agreement with montenegro and otherwise not to enter into any coalition-building deals. the conditions for this are that the integration talks with serbia and the serbian community should be held, otherwise nothing will happen.
member of the commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i hope that the fact that most members of parliament left the chamber after they had spoken is not a symbol of the attitude towards kosovo. he deserves all the attention. i am grateful, however, for the critical but mostly positive comments on the situation in the country. the elections have shown - and this has been discussed enough today - that the result is unlikely to lead to the formation of a government quickly. the opposite is to be feared. i hope it doesn't take another nine months. but the rhetoric in advance has led to the fact that there are now cemented positions again and it will be difficult to find coalitions here. i hope that you learn from this and understand that democracy is also about finding compromises and not thinking and acting in black and white categories. i can only say that the european commission is committed to the european perspective of kosovo. we are doing everything we could, we delivered last year, not only the stabilisation and association agreement, but also the european reform agenda. it is really up to the authorities in the country to take advantage of these opportunities. the citizens of kosovo want this. 75% - a whopping three-quarters - are in favour of european integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not the task of the european union or anyone else here to produce the results, the decisions. it's an internal matter. as i said, we stand with kosovo and its citizens. they deserve to have this european perspective. we also expect the new government to make a clear commitment to the european perspective, and i say quite frankly: not just in words but also in deeds.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, i wish to express my sincere gratitude for the excellent work and commitment of the rapporteur of the european parliament on kosovo, my friend ulrike lunacek. the eu will continue to assist kosovo, including through its strengthened presence on the ground. however, the primary responsibility for progress lies with kosovo: its leaders, institutions and civil society. reforms are crucial and will require the political leaders to live up to their responsibilities for the good of kosovo and of its citizens. key eu-related reforms are essential: not to please the eu but because they are in the interest of kosovo itself.
as a statement to the commissioner, most of the members have groups of visitors from the constituencies who expect to see their members in the evening to explain european policy to the citizens. i suspect that's the reason, not the attitude towards kosovo. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 14 june 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, president juncker, commissioner, honourable members, the 28 heads of state and government will be meeting in brussels next week. they have a very dense agenda which will be spread over two days. the first item on the agenda is migration. the eastern mediterranean route and the western balkans route are largely under control. the most pressing issue today is the central mediterranean route. in february, leaders agreed on a list of measures to address the situation. member states and institutions have followed up on this guidance and significantly increased their engagement. still, the magnitude of the crisis and the harrowing numbers of lives lost at sea remind us every day that more is needed – more efforts and more coordination to implement what has been decided. the european council will review the state of play and look at how to improve the effectiveness of our action. leaders will also revert to the reform of the common european asylum system. the european council is expected to give a steer for further work to continue under the estonian presidency. second on the agenda is security and defence. in the light of recent tragic attacks, notably in manchester and london, leaders will again speak out firmly against terrorism, hatred and violent extremism and will look at what more the eu can do. as concerns external security and defence, leaders established a comprehensive work programme in december. since then more progress has been achieved than in the last ten years. building on this new momentum, leaders will discuss further steps on some issues, for instance, permanent structured cooperation, eu battle groups or the industrial dimension of eu defence. turning now to jobs, growth and competitiveness, which is the third item on the agenda, a year ago leaders set the deadline of 2018 to complete the single market in all its dimensions. they will therefore look at what has been achieved, and where we are lagging behind. this deadline should remain a strong driver to make headway at all levels, including in interinstitutional negotiations. furthermore, in the light of recent developments, the european council will return to trade policy. leaders are expected to reaffirm the eu strong commitment to our trade policy. they will also discuss how the eu can make sure trade remains free and fair for all. to conclude, i would like to mention two other important topics. first, leaders will show their strong and continued support to the paris agreement on climate change. this is an important point, and we will discuss this here later on in the morning and i think that we should expect some strong language on this issue. second, in preparation for the estonian presidency, leaders will encourage a broader outlook on the digital dimension of europe. as demonstrated by recent cyber attacks, digital issues go beyond the digital single market. they have a bearing on many if not all other eu policies. so for now, i thank you for your attention.
president of the commission. – mr president, minister, honourable members, since we last met here one month ago, europe has again seen its way of life attacked through cowardly acts of terrorism. in europe, determination will always triumph over fear. these attacks will not undermine our resilience. they do, however, bring into sharper focus the discussions on defence and security that we will have at this month’s european council. europeans expect their union to keep them safe from threats, whether they be from within or without, and whatever their nature. that was recognised by eu leaders in bratislava and in rome when they pledged to step up their defence cooperation. they highlighted defence as one of the key issues for our union when moving forward. to support that, and faithful to what i told this parliament last september in the state of the european union speech, the commission last week published a reflection paper on the future of european defence, showing how far we can go depending on the level of ambition and political will of our member states. we have all the tools we need in the treaties to make it happen, including permanent structured cooperation, the sleeping beauty of the lisbon treaty. but now is the time to decide, and this house must play a full role in that debate. whichever road we go down, our ever closer partnership with nato will remain the cornerstone of europe’s defence and security. on defence, the european union and nato are like twins. we are part of the same family, and rivalry is not an option. within nato there is a great deal the european union can do to improve its own cooperation. the simple truth is that no european country alone can tackle the scale and complexity of the challenges we face, nor can we rely on any foreign power to do it for us. we cannot outsource our own security. that starts with the need to invest in a more efficient way. the united states already spends twice as much as all european countries combined, while russia and china have dramatically stepped up their defence budgets in recent years. and 90% of the money we invest in defence, research and technology in europe is spent without any kind of coordination at all. that leads to inefficiencies and duplication that could easily be avoided. that is why the european defence fund that the commission proposed last week will support member states’ budgets and facilitate cooperation on joint research and purchasing of equipment and technology. we have earmarked eur 590 million to support defence by 2020, and have proposed to allocate at least eur 1.5 billion each year after that. the fund is both an investment boost to our industry and a statement of intent to our citizens, who expect us to do more to protect them. i was encouraged to see already vocal support for our proposals at last week’s high-level conference on security and defence which i hosted with prime minister sobotka in prague, but also the franco-german announcement for the development of a european drone programme and the joint training of officers. we are not talking about the militarisation of the european continent. it is about doing more together for the stability and peace of our continent. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, il est normal que l’union européenne s’implique fortement dans tout ce qui relève de la sécurité et de la défense. mais la sécurité mondiale exige bien plus que les seuls efforts en matière de dépenses militaires. la stabilité européenne comme la stabilité mondiale dépendent aussi de nos efforts dans les domaines de la coopération au développement et de la lutte contre les changements climatiques, dont nous savons à quel point ils redessinent notre planète et sont source d’instabilité. notre terre et tous ses peuples en subiront les effets. la montée des eaux n’a jamais été aussi rapide: elle menacera la côte du bengale, comme la côte de floride et certaines côtes européennes. tous les peuples ne sont pas égaux face aux conséquences des changements climatiques. la partie la plus pauvre du monde, qui n’est responsable que de 7 % des émissions de co2, est la plus vulnérable. cette fois-ci, nous ne pourrons pas prétendre que nous ne savions pas. à travers le monde, le nombre des catastrophes naturelles liées au climat a plus que triplé depuis le début des années 60. chaque année, ces catastrophes ont provoqué plus de 60 000 décès, principalement, mais non exclusivement, dans les pays en développement. les épisodes de sécheresse deviennent de plus en plus nombreux et de plus en plus graves, provoquant de véritables situations de famine, comme c’est actuellement le cas en afrique de l’est. réduire les budgets de l’aide au développement ou remettre en cause les engagements pris à la cop 21, c’est porter une lourde responsabilité en nuisant gravement à la stabilité mondiale. ce message, l’union européenne doit continuer et continuera à le porter. vous pouvez compter sur moi et le monde comptera sur nous. nous avons connu, ces dernières années, le plus important afflux de réfugiés depuis la deuxième guerre mondiale, mais nous devons aujourd’hui prévenir une crise bien plus grave encore. agissons sans perdre un seul instant, car ne pas tenir aujourd’hui les engagements de l’accord de paris, c’est risquer de jeter, d’ici à 2050, jusqu’à 250 millions de réfugiés climatiques sur les routes de l’exil. herr präsident, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! wir haben eigentlich jetzt schon eine vorreiterrolle bei der reform des europäischen asyl- und migrationssystems eingenommen. auch wenn die öffentliche und die veröffentlichte meinung oft behaupten, die europäische union komme in der flüchtlingskrise nicht voran, entspricht dies nicht ganz der wirklichkeit. das belegt unser aktuelles migrationspaket, das die kommission gestern an den europäischen rat geschickt hat. wir sehen mehr solidarität als zuvor, aber wir sehen noch nicht genug solidarität. und wir sehen, dass unsere außengrenzen besser geschützt sind als je zuvor. die union und die mitgliedstaaten unterstützen griechenland und italien; wir haben 20 000 flüchtlinge aus diesen beiden ländern umverteilt. das zeigt: wo ein wille ist, ist auch ein weg. und wir haben vor ort zentrale aufnahmestellen eingerichtet, für die wir eu-beamte, mitarbeiter von eu-agenturen und experten aus allen mitgliedstaaten entsandt haben. gleichzeitig haben wir den schutz unserer gemeinsamen außengrenzen in unser aller verantwortung überführt. dank der europäischen grenz- und küstenwache können wir heute die am stärksten gefährdeten grenzabschnitte besser absichern. zurzeit sind bereits – aber niemand sagt das – 1 600 europäische grenzschützer im einsatz, die die nationalen grenzbeamten unterstützen: 967 in griechenland, 402 in italien, 168 in bulgarien und 65 in spanien. zusätzlich steht ein pool von 1 500 grenzschutzbeamten sofort einsatzbereit. wir zeigen solidarität nicht nur innerhalb der union, sondern auch denjenigen staaten gegenüber, die einen großteil der flüchtlinge aufnehmen. dazu gehört die türkei. bei meinem jüngsten treffen mit präsident erdoğan ende mai haben wir beide bekräftigt, dass wir weiterhin an der erfolgreichen umsetzung der eu-türkei-flüchtlingsvereinbarung arbeiten wollen. die eu steht zu ihrem wort, und auch die türkei steht zu ihrem wort. denn heute kommen 98 % weniger flüchtlinge von der türkei nach griechenland, als dies vor dem abkommen der fall war. aber natürlich werden wir uns nicht auf dem erreichten ausruhen. unsere berichte zeigen deutlich, wo noch mängel bestehen und wo die mitgliedstaaten sich noch weiter anstrengen müssen. hier geht es um ganz praktische fragen, wie zum beispiel die noch fehlende ausrüstung für den europäischen grenz- und küstenschutz. es geht aber auch um grundlegende fragen, nämlich wie mitgliedstaaten eu-recht umsetzen. nach ganzen zwölf berichten, in denen wir immer wieder angemahnt haben, dass einige länder mehr tun müssen, um ihren verpflichtungen bei der umverteilung nachzukommen, gibt es immer noch drei länder – polen, ungarn, tschechische republik –, die entweder keinen einzigen flüchtling aus italien und griechenland aufgenommen haben oder aber seit über einem jahr niemanden mehr aufnehmen. das lässt uns keine andere wahl, als heute deshalb die vertragsverletzungsverfahren gegen diese länder einzuleiten. ich möchte dies unterstreichen: hierbei geht es nicht um sanktionen, sondern es geht darum, deutlich zu machen, dass getroffene entscheidungen geltendes recht sind, selbst wenn man dagegen gestimmt hat. die kommission ist hüterin der verträge, und wir müssen unserer pflicht nachkommen, so wie wir es heute in 137 weiteren vertragsverletzungsfällen gegen insgesamt 27 mitgliedstaaten tun. man soll aufhören, zu behaupten, die einleitung von vertragsverletzungsverfahren sei mit sanktionen gleichzusetzen. es geht hier um die einhaltung des europäischen rechts, und wer darauf drängt, dass europäisches recht eingehalten wird, der sanktioniert nicht. (beifall) die europäische solidarität darf keine einbahnstraße sein; der verkehr muss sich in beide richtungen bewegen. ich gebe die hoffnung nicht auf, dass sich der europäische geist, die europäische vernunft und unsere europäischen werte am ende durchsetzen werden und wir diese frage der solidarität nicht vor dem gerichtshof lösen müssen. europäische solidaritätsfragen müssen nicht vor gericht gelöst werden, sondern schreien nach einer sofortigen politischen antwort. solidarität kann man allerdings nicht mit der brechstange erzwingen; sie muss von herzen kommen, vor allem, wenn es um menschenleben geht. ich werde die mitgliedstaaten anlässlich des nächsten europäischen rates intensiv daran erinnern. (beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i want to start with a topic which is not officially on the agenda next week, but which will surely overshadow the whole debate – namely, the general election in the uk. let me start with a frank analysis from our side: i do not think it is a good result, because we were asking london for clear orientation and stability, and what we see today is a situation of disorientation – some are calling it a chaotic situation – in london. theresa may gambled and she lost, and the country is deeply divided. twelve months after the brexit result, when we look at the political landscape all over europe, we now see clear leadership in france, spain is stable, italy is stable, germany is stable, and so is dublin. so europe is united, but we are seeing a lot of problems on the table in london. so the main message for people in the european union is that it is better to reform the european union, if needed, than to destroy it or to leave it. (applause) one inspiring element of this election is that the youth is back. they abstained in the brexit decision, and now they have gone to vote and have taken their destiny into their own hands. that is a very promising thing, because they are in favour of partnership and in favour of europe. a hard brexit was what theresa may offered, and i have to say that there is no majority for this option. in great britain, people are rethinking their priorities, and today they are mainly discussing jobs: that is what we should also focus on. let us talk about jobs, let us talk about the economy, and about people’s daily lives. that is one thing. the second thing is the official agenda: there, the most important thing is that we have had enough papers on the table and we have had enough talks on the issues. it is now time to act. that is what people all over europe expect from our leaders. on defence, it is obvious we have the commission’s very good papers – jean—claude juncker’s papers – on the table, and we have the bratislava decision on the table. so let us now start with cyber war, with drones, and with action in the sahel zone. it is now up to us simply to do it, and that is what we expect from the council. on migration, for the epp group, the precondition for all further measures was always that we need strong border control. we have to protect our borders. when we listen to our commission president, this is now much better organised and works much better than it has done in recent years. now we can go a step further. i want to underline that on the question of solidarity it is not europe which is failing, because brussels – i should say the commission – is offering a clear proposal, and we in parliament have a clear majority in favour of practicing solidarity in the european union. it is not europe that is failing, but for the moment it is national egoism which is failing and not bringing results. that is why we should move. let us go on and let us show leadership. with brexit in mind, the most convincing thing that our leaders can do now is act. (applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i believe that there are three very topical issues which must certainly be addressed at the council meeting, both formally and informally: the first is the migration crisis, which i will come back to in a moment, brexit, but also the situation in greece. i would ask you to ask the council to make a statement in view of the forthcoming meeting of creditors and the eurozone finance ministers, to make it clear that the blackmail must finally end. now we have to pay. but now we must finally start negotiating a debt reduction. how can you talk about jobs and growth on the radio if you just let parts of the european union fall apart and do not make sure that the conditions that make jobs and growth possible are created there again? that's the one point. i would like to make one comment on brexit, because a lot has already been said: theresa may is getting the support of the dup. i would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that this alone violates the mandate's requirement that the good friday agreement be upheld in all its parts. the british government is committed to neutrality between the two ruling forces in northern ireland and also to impartiality. i'm gonna need your attention, please. i would like to remind you once again, when it comes to addressing the migration crisis, to ensure that legal and safe routes are opened. the dead in the mediterranean will not allow us to continue to push back against this decision. i think they are also not going to allow us as the european union to organise deals with sudan and with libya. both are regimes, both are failing states. we are financing directly in sudan forces which were among those who have taken massive action against migrants from other regions, from other african countries, who are deporting them or are responsible for inhuman treatment, torture, theft, all kinds of things. we know that the libyan coast guard is on the move to interfere with, for example, sea rescue. we know the letter that sea-watch and doctors without borders have written to the federal chancellor, asking her to stop this, to ensure that we send these funds - for example, the 140 million to sudan to finance the sudanese forces to hold back the refugees - to the countries from which the refugees come. we must finally help all those countries in africa in a concrete and long-term way. and if that's not enough, the demands for closed borders are just inhumane, because they lead us to put people back over and over again. you, mr juncker - and this is my last request here today - spoke of the union helping greece and italy: please go to the hotspots! yes, there is help, but on the other hand there are also efforts to prevent, for example, family reunification and to return migrants to greece and italy. we can't let that happen. solidarity is not voluntary in the european union. you are right about that, and we support you. breach of contract lawsuits against those who don't comply are right. sanctions in the sense of cutting funds - that is not the way to go. it is really about making solidarity a mandatory part of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i share the calls of some of our colleagues for more solidarity on the refugee issue. i think it is super disappointing that the council has dropped any progress on the issue of solidarity from the agenda, and i am afraid that if you cannot even solve that task, then i really have a hard time imagining how there can be progress in other areas – at least not in a way that will be satisfactory. i think the reason for that is that for solving problems you would actually need to tackle their root causes. you would have to look at the root cause for why people have to flee, and do something about that. you would have to look at the root causes for conflict and not just spend more money, and also look at the root causes of radicalisation and terror. your answer to conflicts and violence worldwide is just to push for more military spending. you want to actually take money away from sme funding and from structural funds and put it into the weapons industry. but i do not really think that that particular industry really needs that extra bit of help, but what we are actually doing here – or what we would be doing here – is actually to make a 29th or 28th sort of defence policy. but rather than doing that and wasting a lot of money, we should make pooling and sharing the rule, and not the exception. this sort of cooperation could actually save us something like eur 100 billion every year: money that is actually urgently needed to tackle all the root causes of conflicts, for example, in the world. on terrorism we also urgently need answers, but i do not think that your recipe of simply collecting more and more data is going to do it. rather, we need more policewomen and policemen on the ground. we need to strengthen the exchange of data on actual suspects and unknown risk persons, so that the tools that we already have today actually serve the security of our citizens. and yes, of course we need to prosecute those who pose a real threat to us and our way of life – absolutely – but we also need to look further into the root causes of radicalisation so that fewer people become a threat to our security and to our freedom. i wish the presidency good luck with their discussions, and i hope that it will defy my low expectations and actually dare to look into the root causes and come up with solutions that actually solve something.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we just heard another one of those proverbial brexit-y-bits. the result of brexit is simple: here we have a government that is no longer able to negotiate, people are sliding into an uncertain future, and in the rest of europe there is more enthusiasm for europe again. that's the truth, that's the result. i think we need to take the outcome for ourselves now and seize the opportunity. the council is also called upon - which in recent years has not always been as active as we would have liked - to take the opportunity to make the best of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if you don't follow them, you're gonna get criticised. that's the way it is. if i park wrong, i'll get in trouble too. rules are there to be followed, in all matters, in all matters, including public debt. the second point is that if the council is meeting now and wants to take advantage of the opportunity, then i think the commission's proposal is extremely interesting and good, particularly in the area of security and defence. just take two or three things out of it, you don't have to do everything, take two or three things out of it, and make a first point and show it to the people in europe who are now going back out on the streets and saying, 'europe is great, it is valuable': we can solve this, we are taking care of the problems that are at stake, and we are also creating very concrete concepts. more cooperation doing something concrete, not generic, but practical in the area of cybercrime, doing something in the area of drones, implementing, delivering realities. that's the best part. and in that respect, president juncker has just made an important statement. maybe we're not explaining this enough. of course, mrs keller, the refugee issue is not settled. who would believe that? but at least we can say that we have a lot of work to do, but we have also done a lot. it is true that these agreements with turkey have been successful, even if i do not like everything that is happening in turkey. but the results aren't that bad. the numbers have decreased, relocations are not working out well enough, but to some extent. it's not going to work with all the states participating, yes. i can tell you all the things that don't work. but would it not be smart to report on the achievements now, at a time when people in europe are having fun, hope and interest in europe again? i invite you to join me.
president of the marshall islands. – mr president, i bring warm greetings from the people and government of the republic of the marshall islands. it is indeed a great honour and privilege to address you today. i come from a country whose beauty is as breathtaking as its vulnerability. our ancestors refer to our islands as ‘jolet jen anij’ or ‘gifts from god’. midway between australia and the united states, the marshall islands comprises more than 1 000 islands dotted within 29 different atoll chains, often no wider than a road. while our territory, mostly ocean, is vast, our population is about 50 000 – far smaller than this beautiful city. it would seem that my country and yours could hardly be further apart or more different but there is much that we have in common. on a personal level, some of my ancestry is european, german to be specific. on a national level, we are strongly committed to liberal democracy, to human rights and the rule of law. like the european union, my country also believes deeply in a multilateral approach to solving global problems. the gravest of these is the battle against climate change. we are all vulnerable to climate impact. no one can escape, but the marshall islands is on the front-line. wherever you stand in my country you see the ocean. with an average elevation of two metres above sea level, we have nowhere to run and nowhere to hide. king tides and droughts have become more regular and frequent with disaster often hitting us in different ways in different parts of the country at the same time. one of my first acts as president was to declare a state of disaster because of an unseasonal and prolonged drought. we had less than three weeks of fresh water left. at the very same time we were on high alert for widespread inundation. the drought lasted seven months and cost us nearly eur 3.5 million. the year before that, a typhoon wiped away more than 3% of our economy and the year before, that many of our people were left homeless by a single king tide. climate change is not a hoax. this is what the everyday struggle against climate change looks like. for us and our pacific island cousins the ocean that has been our lifeblood risks becoming the cause of our nightmares and through no fault of ours. unless the world keeps its promise to pursue efforts to limit global temperature rise to no more than 1.5 degrees celsius my country and others like tuvalu and kiribati risk becoming completely uninhabitable before the century ends. but the current geopolitical situation would seem to make achieving the 1.5°c limit more challenging than this time last year. in the 18 months or so since the historic paris agreement was reached the world seems to have been turned upside-down more than once. the leader of the world’s largest historical contributor to climate change has announced that he wants to leave the paris agreement. in my view, that decision was, at best, misguided. it was also disappointing and confusing for those of us that have long believed in the importance of us global leadership. this is particularly so for my country, a long-time committed ally and friend. in the coming three years before the us can legally withdraw, we all have a duty to work together to convince president trump of the importance of climate action. we have compelling arguments and evidence to help change hearts and minds. because of that, i am cautiously optimistic and so are my people. i have come here today to explain why and to ask for your help. the paris agreement that we all fought so hard to achieve is a balanced, fair and durable agreement. it is a ringing endorsement of multilateralism. it will stand the test of time. the agreement gives countries flexibility to determine their own contributions towards fighting climate change in the context of collective science-based goals. the agreement will bring countries together every five years to take stock of progress towards achieving those goals with a view to raising ambition. the agreement provides for transparency and accountability and sets out provisions relating to means of implementation, adaptation, and loss and damage. importantly, the agreement recognises that the national circumstances of countries must be considered in its implementation. it took us well over 20 years to achieve the paris agreement. we cannot do better and we do not have the luxury of more time. the agreement is not open to renegotiation. almost 150 countries have now joined the agreement; some 50, including more than a quarter of the g20 since the us election. no one else is walking away. in fact, they are doing the opposite. some have joined in the last few days. i have been overwhelmed in recent weeks by the widespread global support and commitment to the paris agreement, including leaders, governments, cities, regions and business community and individuals. i commend italy for its climate leadership in the g7 and expect no less of germany in the g20. such collective acts of leadership are critical and must not fall by the wayside. apart from the moral case for climate action, the economic case is undeniable. a recent oecd report highlights in no uncertain terms that any delay in climate action is bad for the economy. growing numbers of decision-makers at all levels see this. real world climate action is accelerating and exceeding national targets. who could have predicted only a few years ago that renewable energy would increasingly be the cheapest option? climate action simply makes sense at every level. this realisation is resulting in new countries emerging as climate champions, including india and china. we are also seeing countries coming together to find new ways to push the boundaries of climate ambition. the high ambition coalition, which my country established with the european union and others, was key to reaching the deal in paris. that coalition, which bridges traditional economic and geo-political divides is now working towards the full implementation of the paris agreement and the creation of the political space needed for deeper and faster climate action. in september next year my country will take over leadership of the climate vulnerable forum – a group of 48 developing countries that has pledged to go 100% renewable by 2050. if we can do that, so can you! at the sub-national level we are seeing an unstoppable groundswell of collective commitment to climate action. initiatives include the under2 coalition, the 2050 platform, mission 2020, the c40 group of cities and the we mean business coalition. statements of commitment from us states, cities and businesses in the last week is to be welcomed and so is the direct engagement of european nations with them. as the un secretary-general recently said, the climate action train has truly left the station. but for a country like mine, there is an urgent time imperative. a cost effective path to achieving the 1.5°c limit requires peaking global emissions before 2020 and a rapid acceleration of climate action before 2020 so as to set the world towards net-zero emissions in the second half of this century. the international energy agency (iea) has confirmed this rapid decarbonisation is possible but requires unprecedented levels of leadership. so once again the world is looking to europe. thankfully you have a good track record. from the kyoto protocol and delivering on its implementation to securing the durban mandate that led to the paris agreement, and ensuring the success of paris itself, including bringing it into force in record time, europe has been at the centre of it all. indeed, in paris, it was the marshall islands and the european union that marched arm-in-arm with others into the historic or final plenary. with that in mind, i pay tribute to president juncker, commissioner arias cañete and other european leaders and ministers over the years for their commitment. they are true climate warriors, as are many of you who grace this chamber and others around the world. domestically, europe is demonstrating that economic growth and reducing emissions of greenhouse gases are both possible and mutually reinforcing. your ground-breaking legislation and policies are being emulated by others around the world. leadership must increasingly be about implementation. you are turning rhetoric into reality and beginning to put in place what is needed to deliver on your paris promises. the eu and its member states together provide about 40% of all global public climate finance. the eu is also the biggest provider of technical climate assistance to developing countries. an important example is the mpc partnership. in my country eu support has on its own helped solarise more than 90% of our outer islands. every penny is being put to good use. for all of this, i say thank you for your leadership and for your example. going forwards, what must climate leadership from europe look like? first, europe must urgently communicate a 2050 strategy to reduce emissions, consistent with the 1.5°c limit and net-zero emissions in the second half of this century. i have already committed my country to doing so. second, in 2018 the world will come together to consider progress and inform countries in coming forward with new or revised nationally determined contributions in 2020. the eu must approach this dialogue open to the possibility of raising its ambition as a result. we will not stay within 1.5°c unless europe and others move before 2020 to raise ambition. so i am pleased to see president macron has already committed france to doing even more and i welcome similar statements by prime minister modi of india and others. this is exactly the race to the top we need. the 2018 dialogue, together with the climate action summit which california plans to host next september and the un secretary-general’s climate summit of world leaders in 2019 are the three biggest political moments we have before the end of this decade to push the cause of increased climate ambition. europe must be at the centre of these, working with countries and others around the world to ensure further and faster climate action by all. third, i urge you to move to five-year international targets. ten-year targets risk lacking in low ambition and are less responsive to the latest science and technological developments. fourth, the european union must continue to push ambitious climate action in all relevant fora and sectors, including on shipping emissions and ensuring environmental integrity in reducing aviation emissions. it will also be important to push for the kigali amendment on hfcs to enter into force as soon as possible. my country has already ratified the amendment. i acknowledge the sustained leadership of the federative states of micronesia to this important cause. the eu must also lead the world in mainstreaming climate action to deliver the sustainable development goals including in relation to oceans. i pay tribute to our pacific cousins from fiji, as well as to sweden for their leadership. all pacific islands are also extremely proud that fiji will represent us when it leads the world at cop 23, the first island climate summit. finally, ongoing leadership of the eu on climate finance, in particular for the most vulnerable countries, will be critical. support for implementation by developing countries is a crucial part of the paris agreement. sadly, the us decision to stop green climate fund (gcf) funding presents a problem and one we hope the eu and its allies can address. bilateral assistance will also continue to be viable for countries like mine. an even greater focus by the eu on the pacific region is urgently needed. in concluding, i note that some people, maybe even some in this room, think that it is impossible to achieve the goals we agreed in paris; that is to say that my country cannot be saved. it is impossible to explain how it feels as the leader of my people to see reports or commentaries that apparently forecasts the oblivion of our home land, our ‘jolet jen anij’. i have seen and experienced the forced relocation and migration of my fellow citizens to other parts of the marshall islands and beyond as a consequence of the testing of nuclear weapons. so, the responsibility my generation has to leave to our children, and to their children and grandchildren, the marshall islands as a secure place to call home weighs heavily. failure is not an option. as our young climate warriors eloquently put it ‘we are not drowning, we are fighting’. i think i speak for all of my pacific sisters and brothers when i say that. by working together, the marshall islands, the european union and many others have achieved the impossible before and we will achieve it again because we must. for your leadership, past, present and future, i say ‘kommooltata’ – thank you very much! (sustained applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the recent announcement by president donald trump to withdraw the united states from the paris agreement on climate is a highly regrettable step. the announcement is in line with previous actions on environmental regulation by the new us administration, such as the rolling-back of existing climate programmes and the weakening of international climate commitments. the decision to withdraw has been taken in the face of many convincing arguments in support of the new international framework and its architecture that have been voiced by the international community, businesses and other stakeholders. unfortunately, at this point the details of the us approach are still unclear. however, what has become evident now is the fact that the us withdrawal adds to the global responsibility held by the european union as the key supporter of a rules-based multilateral system. let me stress here that the eu is committed to leading with ambitious climate policies and through our committed support for the poor and the vulnerable. the paris agreement is fit for purpose. it is ambitious, yet not prescriptive. with its flexible architecture it constitutes an international framework which encourages countries to widen the array of options contributing to the goals of preventing climate change, which threatens global development, peace and stability. therefore the council is committed to ensuring that the eu significantly contributes to the optimalisation of the paris agreement and to the design of all the elements of the paris outcome. our goal should be to minimise the consequences of the us decision on the effectiveness and credibility of the climate framework. the eu will also continue to support the convergence between intergovernmental negotiations and the implementation agenda. this includes conversion of countries’ nationally determined contributions goals into concrete policies and actions. the council is continuing its work on the completion of the internal legislative and regulatory framework of the union, which is necessary to deliver our paris target of reducing economy—wide emissions by at least 40% by 2030. on 19 june the environmental council will hold an exchange of views on the effort-sharing and the land-use change and forestry emissions proposals. we hope to swiftly finalise the council’s position and to start our interinstitutional negotiations as soon as possible. the eu position following president trump’s decision to withdraw the us from the cop 21 climate agreement will also be discussed during the foreign affairs council meeting on 19 june.
president of the commission. – mr president, when i addressed the paris conference in november 2015 i saw the world united around a simple goal: to hand over to future generations a healthier planet, more stable and fairer societies, and more prosperous and modern economies. thanks to the negotiations, and in particular to the chief negotiator of the european union, my good friend miguel cañete, a historic deal was made. the world agreed to save its one and only home. doing justice to its traditional name, ‘gifts from god’, the marshall islands took action, becoming one of the first to ratify the paris agreement. the testimony of president heine is a reminder of the need for action. it is a matter of survival. here is a fact: every morning, international datelines set that the day begins at the marshall islands. president heine, we will work to help your country continue to mark the beginning of our days. we will not allow the denial of the very few to be the end of the days of the marshall islands. unfortunately, not everyone in the world sees the truth of the facts. the withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement is more than a sad event; it is a sign of abdication from common action in dealing with the fate of our planet. we are disappointed and we regret that decision, but the abandonment of paris by the us administration will not mean the end of the agreement. i am convinced that it will make the rest of the world more united and determined to work towards the full implementation of the paris agreement. the european union will not renegotiate the paris agreement. (applause) the 29 articles of the agreement must be implemented and not renegotiated. climate action does not need more distractions. we have spent 20 years negotiating; now is the time for action and now is the time for implementation. i see a strengthened resolve from all those who care about the future of the planet and who see the opportunities of a modern economy. this includes partners within the united states, such as the states of california, washington, new york, which, taken together, would be the world’s fourth economy. as the european union, we will step up our climate diplomacy and collaboration with other partners. for example, climate action was a key topic of the eu-china summit on 2 june. in september, miguel cañete will co-host a major gathering with his chinese and canadian counterparts to implement the paris agreement and accelerate the clean energy transition. we are also reaching out to our partners in the african union and the acp countries. we adopted joint statements expressing our common resolve and we will work hard to have a clear message coming out of the g20 summit, or at least from 19 of its members, in july. in paris, the world committed to helping vulnerable countries adapt to the consequences of climate change. the decision of the us to go back on its pledge to the green climate fund leaves a major void. from our side, we stand firm to our commitments and we will work with third countries to mobilise the right public and private investments. you can count on the efforts of the commission to keep the momentum going on the implementation of the paris agreement. in return, we hope to count on your support to make the european union’s commitments a reality and make swift progress on all commission proposals related to that goal. when we ratified the paris agreement in record time, this house showed its commitment to climate action. we need to keep the same spirit, more than ever.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by saying how honored we are by your presence and by your speech. you are most welcome. so, when we talk about how we're going to deal with the decisions of donald trump, first of all, there's a very trivial question in the room, which is the question: how do we deal with facts, how do we deal with facts? the major american universities - harvard, stanford, georgetown, yale - and even 82 percent of the american people express that they are clear that climate change is a reality. we are equally clear that change is coming, it is coming in a big way, it is coming in a dramatic way, and the only question is how much we can limit it with collective efforts. we europeans can be proud that we were the driving force, the forerunners and the first to make the paris agreement possible. the europeans will therefore not accept and follow america's withdrawal. the emotional question in the room is, how do you respond to that? first, of course, with some frustration at the development in the united states. but then, if you think about it for a few seconds, even with all the more determination that comes out of the responsibility for the next generation and also the knowledge that the issue of climate change will also trigger a modernization push for our economy. even american companies like exxon are advocating for not giving up on climate goals because they recognize that there is a huge opportunity in that, too, if we engage with the economy to drive that change. donald trump is denying the facts, donald trump is making decisions against the will of his own american citizens, donald trump is not going to create new jobs with these developments, with this decision. and that's why donald trump is making a big, historic mistake with this decision. "america first" is selfish. "america first" is about breaking up relationships. perhaps we should counter this with a 'europe first'. 'europe first' is the approach of partnership, of working together, of wanting to solve problems together. in this sense, europe needs less 'america first' and more 'europe first'.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you very much, madam president, for being here today, for showing us again what it really means, what the effects of climate change mean for people in the most affected areas. i can assure you that we greens will continue to push for more action on climate change, and i am very pleased that many of the colleagues who have spoken today have also said that they support the paris agreement and that they think that trump's decision is wrong. but it's not enough to criticize trump and then see us on moral high ground and say, "we're better off". i'm not going to. the objectives we have set so far, which have been adopted by the commission here, are based on an optimistic scenario. they're not going to guarantee that we won't even meet two degrees. but for islands like that of mrs heine, that is not enough. we need to keep it below two degrees. we should aim for 1.5 degrees maximum. only then will these many islands have a chance to survive. we must therefore do more now - we europeans. we are the third largest emitter of co2 emissions, but we as the european union also have the power and the technology to do something about climate change. we are not one of the poorest nations in the world. we have the means, and we must go forward. we can really show leadership here, we can take the lead, and we can help make this climate go forward. and just when trump is leaving, we can't say: well, the us is not doing anything now, we are not doing anything now, but we have to compensate for this loss of the us. because when future generations ask us, "why didn't you do more?" then we can't say, "yes, trump didn't want to do it anymore". we must increase our own share - we in parliament, but also the governments. when i see how, for example, the german federal government, while always standing up for a family image in front of the glacier, is at the same time going after the biggest polluters by issuing co2 certificates or getting in the way of the strict co2 standards for cars, it just doesn't add up. this is not in line with europe's leadership role, and it is not in line with the fight against climate change. we have a real chance to create good new jobs with real future prospects, with the fight, with energy efficiency and with renewable energy. it is only political courage we must muster. the planet is not waiting for us, it can do without us but we can't do without it and we can't do without a suitable climate. we can do it. we just have to want to, i think.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on his television show, businessman trump usually said to his candidates, "you are fired". now he thinks he's gonna have to run his country like a corporation. as someone who's spent his life in industry, i can tell you, he's not running his country the way you should run your business. instead of developing new products, he relies on old technology. instead of listening to the advice of his own researchers, he relies on alternative facts. instead of looking at the long-term health of his company, he risks it for short-term goals. if i were the chairman of the board of this company, i would say to mr. trump tomorrow, "you are fired".
i have to say, madam president, i had the great honour of being part of the european parliament delegation to the marrakesh climate conference. and there was, of course, a shock when it was announced that president trump had won the election, because of course we had to take into account the current developments. but it was clear in marrakesh that the rest of the world would not be fooled and would stick to paris. i thank jean-claude juncker and miguel arias cañete for their clear statements in this respect. and parliament will not only talk, but act. i'm afraid bas eickhout is going out now. he was talking about loopholes. but he should not forget that we are voting this afternoon on the sharing of efforts, and the epp agrees with the compromise which envisages an ambitious implementation of paris - realistic but ambitious at the same time. and i am glad that after discussions with my group we are reaching this agreement. climate change is an opportunity for the economy, and trump will cause the most pain to the united states because he is missing the future.
i have to say, madam president, climate action is not only a political but also a moral duty - as the president of the marshall islands' speech showed. it would be totally irresponsible for entire countries to disappear from the scene if we cannot limit global warming. protecting the climate will be the biggest transformation of the economy since the first industrial revolution. the move away from fossil fuels and towards renewable energy also creates entirely new opportunities. we in europe must be careful not only to buy the new products, but also to produce them ourselves. most photovoltaic systems are produced in china. most electric cars will soon be produced in china. green cities and green buildings are produced in china. europe must make an effort to keep us in touch. commissioner, i regretted that the eu-china summit did not produce a declaration on climate action and mutual cooperation, because global climate action needs leadership. and that has to be europe in relation to china.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. just two points. first: i believe that mr. trump wants to build a wall against migration to mexico and the number of migrants will increase by preventing the fight against climate change. for us, it's also an existential question that if we want to secure the living conditions in africa, we have to stop climate change, because otherwise there will be migration. and that's why climate change is an important issue in this sense as well. and the second point i want to make is that if you want to put your economy on coal and cement, you have to see that the innovative companies in your country are against it. that's why we should keep our nerve. american companies will not accept this backward policy in the long run. trump is about to lead his own country into economic disaster.
in writing. president trump has decided to withdraw the united states from the paris climate agreement. he's using it to maneuver his country into the climate-policy aisle. at the same time, it indirectly increases the pressure on europe and the other signatory states to honour their commitments and set even more ambitious targets for the future. as a global economic power, the eu has a duty more than ever to take a leading role in international climate action. we need a european climate diplomacy strategy to do this. the european parliament can and must provide important impetus in the development of this strategy. i have been campaigning for a year for an own-initiative report on climate diplomacy to be tabled in the committee on foreign affairs. for example, i call for our parliamentary committees and delegations to systematically ask their interlocutors about the implementation of the un sustainable development goals (sdgs) and their national climate targets at cop21 when travelling around the world. this also applies to our eu missions in the world. the european external action service in brussels must be financially and personally empowered to strengthen europe as a key player in climate diplomacy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to rule 31 of the rules of procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budget is properly managed. this report is in front of many newspapers - not just us members. i don't want to say that i'm against the demolition of the building, but i think that as a member of this house, we have a right to see this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is of course important and right that the european parliament should commit itself to the paris agreement and to the reduction of greenhouse gases, especially at a time when the united states is clearly moving away from that agreement. i have not yet had the opportunity to vote in favour of the report, but i have at least three wishes which remain unfulfilled. the first wish: i would ask everyone to see european agriculture not as a problem but as a solution to the problem. secondly, i would like to see a global approach to all our decisions. it is no use at all if we make a lot of improvements in the european union and then the bad things happen in the rest of the world. and the third wish: of course, in all the things we do, we should make sure that it is feasible and also unbureaucratic, because ultimately it must be able to be applied by people and small and medium-sized businesses.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on a topical subject (article 153a of the treaty on european union) entitled 'rebuilding a europe based on values, anchored in effective democratic institutions and promoting a prosperous economy in a fair and cohesive society' (2017/2706 ((rsp)). i would like to inform everyone in advance that there is no catch-the-eye procedure or blue cards in a debate under article 153a.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is more than a large market. it is a political community, and it is based on the values of europe, which have been won over the centuries. it is time for the eu to make its political profile more visible and more presentable. and that is why, mr vice-president, it is right that we fight for these values and intervene when democracy, freedom of expression or solidarity are denied. we support you in bringing legal proceedings against member states; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu must of course use and protect, and it often seemed to be powerless and helpless. that is true of tax dumping, it is true of unfair competition, it is true of cross-border crime. we have many policies that we really need to sharpen now, and i hope that the five scenarios in the white paper will come together at the end of the year to form a unified programme for the next stages of european unification.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is a key player in the world of economic and monetary union, and it is the only country in the world which has a strong and stable monetary policy. the very fact that we are here today to talk about the need for reconstruction to lead to these results is an admission of failure. important elements of the eu and the eurozone are not functioning; our societies are at the edge on the euro, on migration and on multicultural society; infringements at the highest eu level are not the exception, but the rule for example in the dublin treaties or the eurosystem. instead of stopping at one point, many of the representatives of this eu are calling for 'this path which has been taken so far to be deepened even further' - more centralisation, more state economic planning, more communalisation, more authorities, more bureaucracy and paternalism; there is less responsibility, less performance, less tradition, less diversity, less creativity. is this really the way we should go?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate today is entitled 'rebuilding a europe based on values and promoting a society based on cohesion'. rebuilding is assuming that something has collapsed. this self-knowledge is definitely a good thing. we need to rebuild something. mr timmermans spoke of the values of europe: democracy and the rule of law. nobody in this house is against democracy or the rule of law. the problem is that you - right, now you laugh, of course - think that those who stand for national sovereignty are anti-democratic and advocates of a state of injustice. and that's exactly the absurdity that's driving this country apart. and then we have to remember: democracy and the rule of law must be infused with the values that underlie them. i would remind you that in the charter of fundamental rights, the constitutional treaty and the treaty of lisbon we do not expressly refer to the christian heritage of europe. these are the values on which europe is built. we must be aware of this and come to our senses. these are values. democracy and the rule of law are technology; we all say yes to that. but we need to get the readings back.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the follow-up to the panama papers and the rule of law in malta (2017/2694 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, (inaudible few words) presidency of the council. as you know, the fight against tax evasion, fraud and avoidance is a common eu goal that has been constantly highlighted by the european parliament, the european council, the council and the commission. our presidency has placed this issue amongst our top priorities for the council’s agenda. to summarise our achievements in a nutshell, let me mention the following: the council has completed work on anti-tax avoidance directive 2, as well as on defining criteria to establish a list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. agreement has also been reached on double taxation dispute resolution mechanisms. all these lost years represent important cornerstones of eu action in the area of fighting tax evasion, fraud and avoidance. going into more detail as regards the particular pieces of legislation, let me stress that anti-tax avoidance directives 1 and 2 provide for a comprehensive framework of anti-abuse measures aimed at ensuring that taxation will occur where value is created. as a result, the anti-base erosion and profit-shifting measures which have also been given an impulse by the g20 and the oecd are now translated in the eu into a binding instrument. in several aspects the council went even further than the basic oecd recommendations. furthermore, the work of the code of conduct group on business taxation is continuing at considerable pace. one of its current main tasks is to finalise the process of establishing the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. we also reached an agreement last month on the directive on double taxation dispute resolution mechanisms, which will considerably enhanced tax certainty by making alternative dispute resolution mechanisms binding, faster and more efficient. finally, transparency and exchange of information have also been considerably improved. within just one year the council revised the directive on administrative cooperation twice. these revisions are aimed to ensure the obligation for multinational companies to report key tax information on the amount of revenue, on profit before income tax and on income tax paid in each country where they do business. they also now allow tax authorities to access the information in relation to money laundering. i thank you very much for your attention.
prime minister of malta. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing my government’s solidarity with the british people on this morning’s fire and also our solidarity with our american colleagues following the shootings in virginia just some time ago. thank you for being so kind to invite me over to this debate. i will structure my intervention two-fold: i will start by, at the start of this debate, making some points on the progress on the rule of law which has been achieved in malta over the past few years, then i will be looking forward into devoting most of the time later on into answering questions that colleagues will be putting over. let me refer to a few points on the rule of law at the beginning of this debate. to brief you on the improvements that have been made in my country over the past few years, one of the first bills which we presented as a government was that which removed the time-barring that existed on acts of corruption by politicians and those holding public office. we were the first government in malta that introduced such legislation, which will hold all politicians and public officers to account, not only today but throughout our whole life-time, should any shred of evidence crop up linking any politician – past, present or future – to acts of corruption. as such, no politician will be able to escape the long arm of justice throughout their life-time. i believe that is a unique piece of legislation at eu level. another piece of legislation we put forward and enacted was the whistleblowers protection act. this has been deemed by a number of members of this house, like benedek jávor and julia reda – champions in the fight to protect whistleblowers – as a benchmark for other european union member states and a good basis for a future european whistleblowers directive. since the law came into force in 2013, we had no less than 29 reports that have been lodged under the protection of the maltese whistleblowers act. also, after years of damning reports by the council of europe’s group of states against corruption (greco) putting malta on the blacklist of political party financing, we introduced an act regulating party financing, which was not only important but necessary and in our national interest. our law was introduced in 2015 and led greco to certify that malta shifted from a country contravening the institution’s recommendations on fighting corruption to one of those in line with its main recommendations. in 2016 we also change the method of appointment of members of the judiciary, becoming the first government to forgo such powers. the executive is now bound to make appointments to the bench from a pool of lawyers that have been previously approved by a judicial appointments committee, rather than having government appoint magistrates and judges directly, without the need of any prior consultation. the judicial appointments committee is made of eminent persons, including the chief justice, the attorney general and the president of the chamber of advocates, amongst others. mr president, we did all this in just four years, but we intend to do even more. in fact, one of our pledges over the next five years is that of discussing the removal of any parliamentary immunity in malta, introducing a transparency register at national level – following our work as presidency – to introduce a european transparency register, and the introduction of a new code of conduct for all those holding public office. as i said in the beginning, i am not going to make a long introductory speech; i am interested in listening to the criticism and the points raised by the members of this house – my former colleagues – and then i will answer accordingly.
member of the commission. mr president, madam president-in-office, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the panama papers were added to the previous scandals and confirmed the existence of a worldwide offshore tax evasion system. these revelations have rightly provoked public outrage and political condemnation. at the time, the commission and i made a promise to you, which was to use the momentum created by these revelations to roll back tax evasion. i kept my word, the commission kept its word, the council went along with us. president juncker said to you two weeks ago that we have made unprecedented progress on this front in record time. we did it with your constant, demanding support, and so these successes are also yours. recent revelations concerning tax systems in several member states only confirm the absolute necessity of the action we have taken and continue to take to make taxation in the european union and worldwide more transparent, fairer and more efficient. the landscape that emerges today from these two years of tax activism is profoundly reshaped. automatic cooperation between member states on tax returns and tax information of multinational companies is now the rule. bank secrecy has disappeared in europe, including in our neighbours outside the european union. we have created a tax avoidance safety net with the adoption of the directives on the fight against tax evasion (atad 1 and atad 2). we now have binding measures to tackle the most common forms of tax optimisation and aggressive tax planning, and a new external strategy to ensure that good tax governance is also respected beyond our single market. the distance travelled, as you can see, is absolutely considerable. in just one year, we proposed to strengthen the rules on anti-money laundering, relaunched the draft common consolidated corporate tax base, secured council agreement on tax dispute settlement procedures - thanks to the maltese presidency - and launched the process to create a european list of tax havens - we also worked well with the minister for finance, edward scicluna. transparency of beneficial ownership information is a key priority in the fight against money laundering, corruption and tax evasion. we have proposed to improve access to information on beneciaries in europe and we are pushing this priority internationally. with your vital support, europe should also soon have a country-by-country disclosure mechanism, with the idea that multinationals would make their activities, earnings and taxes paid publicly in europe, country by country. ladies and gentlemen, madam president-in-office of the council, mr prime minister, these advances must now be consolidated and deepened. it's time to move on to the next step. what is it? first, i will propose to strengthen our defence against tax abuse: this will be the subject of my proposal on intermediaries, which i know this house is eagerly awaiting. some of these intermediaries, banks, lawyers, counsellors, consultants - it is not a question of accusing these professions - encourage, profit from or facilitate abuse in some of their activities. the panama papers highlighted the central role of tax optimisation. the pana committee, which is working remarkably well here in the european parliament, also stresses this point. to curb tax evasion means shedding light on this sector. my proposal will be based on the simple principles of transparency, cooperation and exchange of information that we have put forward in our previous proposals. you know them well now. with this initiative, cross-border tax optimisation arrangements will have to be brought to the attention of member states well before they can affect their tax revenues, and thus tax administrations will be in a position to detect or block any possible abuse. on the other hand, although this is not the case in malta, many recent tax evasion and other scandals have been exposed thanks to the courage of whistleblowers. they've risked their careers, their way of life, their freedom at times. they need to be protected. the commission is studying possible courses of action for an initiative in this area. i know that this is what the european parliament wants. the second initiative i will take will be to tackle vat fraud: it is a major issue. this fraud represents, for crossborder vat, €50 billion in losses per year for our public treasuries. the task is not finished, we have made efforts over the last two years. this parliament is well aware of this. a recent study by the pana commission reveals that europol has identified 388 files in the panama papers that are connected to vat fraud operations. this is a massive fraud, carried out by criminal networks and possibly used to finance terrorism. today, vat fraud is, so to speak, child's play, it is called carousel fraud. the shortcomings of the vat system, combined with the disconcerting ease with which money diverted to bank accounts outside the european union can be drained, make this tax resource extremely vulnerable to fraud, and this is particularly the case, as i said, for crossborder transactions. the solution we are going to propose is to move towards a definitive vat regime, letting intra-eu transactions be treated exactly like domestic transactions in the member state of destination through a single window, which will drastically reduce cross-border fraud but also simplify vat obligations for businesses, because, of course, this is a simplification measure that allows businesses to work more efficiently. in this context, i would also like to announce that important actions are being prepared to combat vat fraud, thus in the field of european criminal justice, after the finalisation of the new directive on offences against the financial interests of the european union, which also criminalises vat fraud. on 8 june we reached a political agreement in the council on the establishment - and this is a major one - of the european public prosecutor's office in enhanced cooperation, supported by 20 member states and which others may join later. i hope that i can once again count on the european parliament's full support for this initiative. i am used to saying that we are really on the same side in this fight, which i know is very broadly cross-party and divided across all the benches of this assembly. these initiatives complement the instruments we have put in place together over the past two years to reduce tax fraud and evasion, which remains a shared objective. this will help ensure that the union and its member states remain at the forefront of the fight for fairer taxation, which is a global battle being waged within the framework of the g20 and the oecd. finally - and i'll end here - it is important that the judiciary can do its work in complete calm and independence, and you will understand that i cannot comment on ongoing investigations, which are the responsibility of the judiciary. that is what i wanted to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, mr prime minister, and madam president-in-office of the council, about our constantly renewed fight against all kinds of tax abuse. i thank parliament again for its support, which is indispensable at all times in this very difficult but very important matter.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome you, prime minister muscat, and first of all as a democrat i want to congratulate you on your re-election. there was strong, tough, democratic competition in malta, you won, and i wish you all the best in the interest of the country and in the interest of our european union. in the interest of the european union you showed that you are from time to time ready for change, ready to rethink your own position. i bring to our mind again that you were not previously in favour of malta becoming a member of the european union. today you know that membership is important for malta and contributes to the interests of malta. malta is benefiting from this and today it is obvious that this is a success story. this example shows that you are ready to rethink your position from time to time. but in today’s debate, whose subject is the panama papers linked to malta, the question is not so much what we are doing against fraud and what we are doing for the rule of law; the most important question is: why is there still a minister in your cabinet, the only minister in the european union, who is named on the panama list? that is the substance of the debate today. that is what we want to ask you, because we have a lot of discussion points where can really work together for the future of europe, but that is the substance of the debate. you won the election, but the questions are still on the table and what we ask from you, in your capacity as today’s president of the european council, as the presidency of the council of the european union, is clarification of this open question. you said a lot about what you did on paper on legislation to guarantee the rule of law in malta. i was hoping that you would come back today to strasbourg to the european parliament and could show us what the result of this legislation is, what are you doing to create really strong and independent structures, and what the outcome of this is. legislation, what is on paper, is one thing, but implementation is something else. what does this mean in reality? what is the outcome of these activities? i did not think that you showed a real readiness to give us an opening, an inside look into what is happening in your party, in your government. i would ask you to do so. i think that is a chance for you, in your second approach here in the parliament, to clarify these points. democracy means that people must have full trust in their institutions. that is the base for democracy, and that is what we fight for. (applause from the ppe group)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have indeed many questions about the allegations made against malta and the maltese government. but there are also questions we must ask the european parliament, for example why this debate is taking place now after the elections. the panama committee has proposed that the prime minister of malta be invited before the elections. and what could be more democratic than to give the people who express their political opinion in elections the opportunity to take note of the facts and to question the maltese government before they form their own judgments? the question to be asked of the conference of presidents is: why has this proposal from the panama committee not been followed up? why, in my view, have we violated basic democratic principles by holding a debate only after the elections? i think that we have not set a good example of democracy here, and perhaps we should also be self-critical.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the maltese government and thus the current eu presidency are unfortunately associated with criminal energy in the public mind. cabinet members are in the panama papers, eu visas are being smuggled to chinese businessmen, the rebate system allows companies to squeeze tax rates to five percent of profits. in my home city of hamburg, cruise ships even use the maltese flag and german tax law to reduce taxes to zero. malta is a haven for italian mafia money laundering. without the diplomatic jargon: the money that protects malta is therefore also covered in blood. the maltese have nevertheless confirmed the social democratic government. this is not surprising, as there was no realistic alternative the conservatives in malta also have their record of sin. pointing the finger at malta in the election campaign, but avoiding tax fraud and money laundering in brussels, would be too cheap, however, as the conservatives and liberals did, recently, by making exceptions to country-by-country reporting to prevent companies from reporting profits and taxes paid country by country. the eu must deliver now, even against malta. the council and the commission must help us to close loopholes in the money laundering directive, for example for pseudo directors of letterbox companies. the blacklist of tax havens must be extended to include eu countries such as malta. we need withholding taxes for uncooperative states. europe needs credibility, not lazy deals with the tax mafia. and i would like to ask you, mr muscat: will you work to get us to the majority principle in the code-of-conduct group? and will you appear before the panama papers investigation committee, of which i am vice-chairman? you have an invitation from the chairman. will you make up for it?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, our group asked for this debate because we are seriously concerned with the state of the rule of law in malta. we have found that the financial intelligence unit has investigated several cases of serious wrong-doing in the field of money laundering, as well as in the field of bank licensing and doubtful procedures in banks. these have unfortunately not led to the opening of prosecution processes. these three known reports of the financial intelligence unit have leaked to the media, but still prosecution processes seem not to be on the way and therefore, we call on the police commissioner to immediately open respective prosecution procedures. secondly, for the financial institutions involved, there should be consequences. there is a financial supervisor and there is something peculiar in malta because the head of the financial supervisor mfsa, joseph bannister, is at the same time the vice president of malta finance. there is a strong conflict of interest between the role of supervisor and that of the development authority which brings financial investment to malta. we think the supervisor should take action against pilatus bank and next year bt, to look at their licenses after the findings in the panama papers as well as in the reports of the fiu. furthermore, we believe that the key persons who were involved in the panama papers, including mr schembri as well as brian tonna and kazimi as well as mr zammit who was found in the swiss leagues, should appear before the panama papers committee; so far they have failed to do so. reuters and der spiegel have revealed lax supervision in the online gaming sector. lastly, it is imperative that a thorough investigation be started. we have written today to the commission to start investigations regarding treaty violation procedures concerning money laundering legislation and bank licensing practices. it is high time for malta to defend its reputation. your island needs to be based on the thorough rule of law; and you can do it, you have in your hands to really reveal to the public the truth about all these things and have fair and tough investigations. these are not replaced by elections.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the taxe reports have clearly shown: the source of tax loopholes has been known for many years: the combination of over-complex national tax systems. they couldn't be closed. the finance ministers, the heads of government, have known about this problem for many years, but they could not agree. with panama, it is now becoming clear that there may be a very different reason: because representatives of the entertainment industry, including high-profile athletes and in some cases perhaps even politicians, are involved in these deals. anyway, suspicion is in the air, and that's why it doesn't matter what's in these panama papers. that is why we in parliament want to clarify this, because we are passing laws against tax avoidance and evasion and, above all, against money laundering - that is eu law. and then you get the impression that they're not being implemented. what is the commission doing? well, it's going to the national governments. but then, if ministers are mentioned in the panama papers, then the public suspects that the government is not acting because some of the people involved can benefit from it. this is a terrible situation. it needs to be cleaned up. it's like the beagle boys, the tank-breaking boys, are basically tasked with protecting you from burglars. the citizens therefore have a right to know: are members of the government in malta really affected? when will there be an independent inquiry? is the rule of law being enforced here if the names are mentioned? what if even the prime minister's wife is the last person to be named in public? it is therefore urgent that we either show that the allegations are unfounded - and then it is cleared up - or that the rule of law is put into effect. and the commission, mr president, is also called upon to do so, because otherwise it will be complicit. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not no, i have a question for my colleague theurer. it has to do with the european public prosecutor. is it true - and i am asking this as a member of the committee of inquiry - that malta has not submitted to the european public prosecutor, and how do you assess this? why is it that the maltese government is apparently unable or unwilling to provide support to the authorities in areas where the financial interests of the european union are being violated? is this a serious problem, and if so, what should be done?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr lambsdorff. the european parliament has for many years called for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, so that fraud committed by the european union can be punished across borders in the member states. there is now a first step by some member states in the context of enhanced cooperation. the information i have is that malta has not yet agreed to support and implement the european public prosecutor's office. but then the prime minister would have to explain why malta does not support this european prosecutor, which the european parliament has been calling for for many years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr prime minister, you have spoken about the progress you have made in the last four years in the rule of law. what good is this progress on paper if the democratic process of self-cleansing in your government is not working, if you have reappointed mr mizzi as minister without drawing the consequences, without an inquiry? i can only say that i am sorry that you, as a former colleague, are also responsible for the fact that parliament, the committee of inquiry - i shall remove the finance minister, but the others whose names have come up - have been ignored to an extreme degree. we have not received any answer to our questions from november. we have not received a response to our invitation. mr schembri had an envelope from the prime minister's office handed to him on the street in malta. this is a treatment of parliament which i would not have thought possible from a former member of parliament! and you are the president of the council this year - i have never seen such ignorance of the council towards the freely elected european parliament. you'll have to clean up in your own country! we'll stick with it, we'll insist that your own case be solved. you can laugh. we will insist that this does not pass, and the panama committee of inquiry will - if nothing happens, if you continue as you have been doing - also investigate whether votes were bought in this election, as is publicly alleged in malta. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. we have also discussed the blacklist with the president of the commission. he said that it would be submitted by the end of the year, but he hoped that not a single member state or jurisdiction within the eu would be on it. we will not accept that statement. there are 33 tax havens within the european union. and some member states have made it a point to keep them out of the picture, and have excluded other countries, like uruguay. we will review this system and i believe that malta's tax refund system for foreign companies should be included in this list.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have had the particular pleasure of being a member of the taxe-1, taxe-2 and the panama committee of inquiry, but i must say that it is very, very difficult to shed light on and obtain information in this cartel of silence which the council has unfortunately set up with the help of the commission. firstly, commissioner, you wrote me a letter saying that there are no tax havens in the european union. this letter has been given a place of honour in my office, and i am very happy to look at it again and again, because the daily work of the committee of inquiry shows that the opposite is true. and, mr prime minister, it is interesting that a country like yours can really bring the who's who of the european economy into its own country without large-scale production taking place there. and these are also interesting things that we've worked out in taxe-1 and taxe-2. in panama, the issue is how individual taxpayers protect their assets from taxation. and the fact that even maltese citizens in high positions of responsibility fear maltese tax rates is a clear example of what is going on. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union. we have now learned what possibilities there are for denigrating documents when we wanted to look at the documents. some pages are black, some paragraphs are black, some words are black. but we don't get any information, we only get black pages. mr president, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so, even after reading the panama papers, the name orbán has not been found. that's why i can't ask him the questions.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i can return this thanks to josé manuel fernandes, my co-rapporteur, to all the shadow rapporteurs, and to the many industrious hands and heads in the staff who are involved in our work. we have been very quick to pass legislation on the efsi. we are now engaged in a legislative consultation on the new commission proposal - we will do this efficiently and quickly. but we must also, of course, take this opportunity to sum up, to draw a conclusion: what have we achieved? what remains to be done? first of all, why this strategic investment fund in the first place? the commission tells us that 200 to 300 billion a year is missing from european investment policy. we have a lack of investment, particularly in transport, particularly in broadband networks and in renewable energy. we, the european parliament, the groups behind this resolution that we have adopted, do not want to accept it. we believe in the future of the european economy. we want to give a chance to the young people who are far too often and far too frequently unemployed in many countries. there has to be sustainable growth. we want to create the conversion into the future of the economy. that is why we must close these investment gaps. yes, we are in favour of this programme. yes, we support the program. but let 's see: what are the remaining deficits? what areas of improvement are still needed? we must ask ourselves: what has been achieved? yeah, the volumes are flowing, the numbers are good. but are we really funding the projects we want to fund? or is it not too often the case that projects are financed which are already receiving capital - whether from private or public funders? why are there still so few partnerships - partnerships that support small and medium-sized projects, partnerships with regional development banks, with national development banks that have the know-how that we urgently need? is the money really going to the regions where we need it most? or are we not favouring regions which already have an intact infrastructure - a consultancy infrastructure, a project planning infrastructure - and therefore perhaps less dependent on our money? is the positive dynamic we want already emerging in the sectors of modernisation? or do we spend money primarily to get money spent? these are critical issues that we must not ignore, and that is why our report highlights the benefits that have been achieved. but it also makes clear where the shortcomings are. we want to arrive at a clearer definition of additionality. we want the instruments for selecting projects to be strengthened and, please, also applied as they are enshrined in the first legislation. we want more transparency. we want more cooperation. and we feel that the weight of the european parliament is needed to achieve these objectives better. we are counting on cooperation, of course, particularly with the commission, which we support, but also with the preferred partner, the european investment bank - here too we want to make cooperation even better. and we want to convince the council that important steps must be taken in this regard.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank the members for what i consider to be a very engaging discussion. the rapporteur has listened to us and we will take the suggestions. but i can also say: we feel confirmed in the direction we want to go in making efsi better. i ask the commission - which i feel does not see the problems very differently from us - to be sympathetic. i ask the council to understand that we praise efsi where good has been achieved, but also identify the problems where we see them. and one more thing: of course, we don't just want to name the problems, we want to fix them. and that is why we are counting on good cooperation with both institutions so that we can also quickly finish the current legislation to make efsi-2 even better. i would like to turn to the council again because this is one of the issues we are discussing at the moment. i think commissioner moscovici is absolutely right when he talks about efsi-3 the great challenge we face is to think now beyond the phase we are currently planning. of course, it is an ongoing task to make ourselves internationally competitive in the context of a sustainable economy. but we must discuss this idea. and i would ask you to look very closely - to name just one major competitor - at what the chinese state funds are doing in the mediterranean region right now or what they are doing with their great silk road project. is it really - and i am addressing this to the council - that our member states do not understand what time it is and that we must finally agree, also with regard to medium-term financial planning, to set the course now? i hope we can find the strength to do it. the european parliament will do everything necessary to move in this direction.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, my intervention will be brief, given that the subject of foreign investment in strategic sectors has not been discussed as such in the council yet. consequently, there is no council position. indeed, there is not even a commission proposal on the table. that being said, i would like to underline that europe is open for business and that foreign investment remains a key principle for the eu. we need investment as an engine for growth and job creation. we encourage others to invest in the european union and our investors are very successful abroad. but clearly in the last year some reasons for concern have emerged and these are related to the sharp increase in foreign acquisitions of significant value in key eu economic sectors. i am thinking of industrial machinery and equipment, ict, utilities, infrastructure or energy. the surge in foreign investment appears less as a result of market forces and more as a consequence of strategic industrial policies by other states. this could compromise fair competitive conditions across the eu and put into question our access to technological know—how. as such, these acquisitions could be deemed not to be in the eu’s long-term interest. in this regard, we welcome the debate launched in february by the economic ministers of germany, france and italy, who in their joint letter to eu commissioner for trade, cecilia malmström, outlined their concern that partner countries do not match the eu level of market openness when it comes to investment and public procurement. they pointed out that the eu was losing its advantage in technological expertise due to mass acquisitions from non-eu investors. the three countries asked for more scope to investigate individual takeovers and, where applicable, to block them. we have also noted with interest the proposal for a union act on the screening of foreign investment in strategic sectors, which was tabled by mr weber, mr caspary and eight other epp members in march this year, calling for intervention at eu level when direct investments by third countries do not comply with market rules or are facilitated by state subsidies, resulting in a likely market disturbance. finally, the commission, in its reflection paper on harnessing globalisation, also noted the concerns recently voiced about foreign investors, notably state-owned enterprises, taking over european companies with key technologies for strategic reasons. in its reflection paper the commission further underscored that eu investors often do not enjoy the same rights to invest in the country from which the investment originated. it is very clear that the way we address investments in strategic sectors will require necessary attention in the future. in the council we will follow the developments on this subject with interest and remain ready to carefully examine any proposal the commission puts on the table.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by stating the obvious: investment is a major source of growth in the eu and a contributor to economic and social prosperity. we have always welcomed foreign direct investment and openness to investment has always been a key principle of our trade policy. as a consequence, the us is the most favourable framework for investment in the world and is a major promoter of open, transparent and predictable conditions for investment worldwide. this policy has positioned the eu as the biggest source destination of foreign direct investment in the world. the commission however, is also well aware of the growing concerns regarding the perceived rapid increase of acquisitions of european strategic and high-tech companies by companies originating from countries that do not share the same open framework for investments as we do, which maintain important restrictions on foreign investment. the commission in its recent reflection paper that you mentioned, madam president, on harnessing globalisation, noted that concerns have recently been voiced about foreign investors, notably state-owned enterprises, taking over european companies with key technologies for strategic reasons. eu investors often do not enjoy the same rights to invest in the country from which the investment originates. these concerns need careful analysis and appropriate action. we are therefore assessing the real scope of this phenomenon, and trying to be clear about what the real issues are. this may represent a new challenge to eu policy and we need to assess whether we have the appropriate tools to respond to it. this may be particularly relevant at a time when the commission is proposing a reflection on foreign investment in sensitive defence-related technologies and the opportunity to introduce some control. the commission is convinced that an important part of the solution to some of the concerns related to the lack of a level playing field for eu investments abroad should come from our trade agenda, which aims at securing the best possible market access and transparent and non-discriminatory conditions for new investors operating in third countries; but the nature of the concerns requires also to look wider and deeper. therefore, we are currently analysing the effectiveness of eu policies on foreign direct investment in close coordination with member states, which are maintaining their own foreign investments screening measures to see if the current framework provides sufficient flexibility to respond to the challenges we are facing. in taking this word forward, we should avoid as much as possible to introduce unnecessary barriers to trade and investment, bearing in mind that the eu economy continues to need more investment, both domestic—that’s the previous debate—and foreign. the commission is ready to engage in further discussions with parliament on these important issues. it goes without saying that such a discussion will need to take due account of the legal framework established under the eu treaties and under the eu and member state international commitments.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. china will keep its door wide open and not close it, chinese president xi jinping said in davos earlier this year. the reality is unfortunately different. european investment in china is falling from €10 billion in 2015 to just €8 billion in 2016. we have big problems there. and china is investing more and more in the european union -- 35 billion euros last year, almost half of it in our key technologies. and they are ruthlessly executing their china manufacturing 2025 strategy. on the other hand, there are many problems for european investors in china: the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the community's policy on the environment. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment. we want to change that, and we need to play harder. we believe that open markets are needed, but they also need clear rules. we want, through our initiative, which we have tabled, that we as the european union identify key industries in which we want to protect ourselves and that we then have a way of preventing targeted acquisitions there. we must give our industry a chance for the future, and that is why i call on the chinese president to create fair conditions, otherwise we must act! and so that he understands that, in chinese: [chinese language played on tape].
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, we do need investment in europe - we just discussed this in the previous item on the agenda - and of course investment from all possible partner countries on earth - as we are investing in other countries. and that is why we must emphasize the principle of reciprocity, of equal treatment, in our negotiations. i have no problem at all in saying that if there are restrictions on our investments in one country, we will also be tackling the same restrictions in europe. but i cannot imagine that we are going in the direction of protectionism and questioning investment activities in general, because ultimately it depends on how investors behave. do they adhere to reasonable conditions? do they adhere to workers' rights? do they adhere to environmental standards? that must be the criterion for approving or not approving investment. i therefore believe that we should be guided by the principle of the equality of the rules and be able to respond to restrictions on our investments abroad with the same restrictions, so that we can have a level playing field here without going in the direction of protectionism from the outset.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. let me start with the facts. the fact is that foreign state-owned companies are investing in strategically important sectors here in europe because they are fed at home to a degree with subsidies that are illegal for european companies here in europe. the fact is that our open investment landscapes are being exploited by countries which are increasingly closing certain markets at home to european investment. the fact is that we do not look closely enough when crown jewels of european high-tech development are bought up, developed with research funds from taxpayers, and the fact is that many of these investments are much less economic than geostrategic. we need a european industrial policy that says: we want to protect european industry without being protectionist. and for that we need a plan from the commission by the end of this year. mr moscovici, it is not enough to be willing to discuss. you must be willing to act!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i am glad that we have the opportunity to speak about this subject tonight, and i am extremely grateful to mr caspary and the other members for taking the initiative to speak to the commission here in the house on this important subject. i think it's important to point out first that this issue goes far beyond china. it is a matter of principle how we will succeed in the long term in putting our companies in the european single market in a situation where they are actually uniformly subject to the same rules for investing in this single market as we have today within the european union, namely the european aid law, the european competition law and many other rules. we are creating an unequal competitive situation for european companies that want to buy european companies, compared to companies from outside. that can't be in our best interest. we want to ensure that the single market grows together, that businesses in europe join forces to compete globally, and that third parties do not make difficult decisions from the outside against our interests. the question remains, however, whether the commission can come forward in the future with a definition of what we so commonly call the 'crown jewels of europe' without knowing exactly what that means. because often one country defines a crown jewel quite differently from another. this will not succeed if we want a uniform european approach. and that's what we need. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to ensure that the commission actually comes up with concrete proposals.
i have to say, madam president, child poverty is parental poverty. children are the future of society. but while pensions have been socialized, the cost of raising children is largely borne by the parents. this puts parents at a disadvantage from child-rearing to retirement, especially mothers. child rearing and child care, that is family work work which is equivalent to work in professional life. the solution is to pay a taxable and social security education allowance. we need not only a pension fund, but also a family fund, where the money is taxed as a percentage of the salary. the level of educational content in 28 countries was based on the salaries for crèche and kindergarten and childcare as a recommendation. that would mean more children, more women and single parents are financially secure, no child is in poverty, welfare systems remain affordable, and we would have no abortion for social reasons. malta, i want to see another leap forward against parental poverty.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. online platforms have great economic potential and are growing dynamically. they provide opportunities for new jobs, and that is precisely why we need to ensure that the competitive advantages of the platform economy over the traditional economy are not based on wage or social dumping. we need to ensure that minimum wages and collective agreements are also applied here and that online workers are included in social security systems. this requires clarification at european level. all work in the platform economy is done either by employees or by the self-employed. and whether they are employees must be established on the basis of facts. on this basis, the same social and labour rights must then apply as in the traditional economy. we also need to make greater efforts to combat false self-employment and to continue to give the self-employed in the platform economy the opportunity to organise in trade unions and to conclude collective agreements. the commission is invited to take initiatives in this respect.
member of the commission. – madam president, the digital economy and society of today is marked by a revolutionary set-up, new services which have changed everyone’s life. almost every part of our lives has been transformed by these new technologies: the way we communicate, access information and media, the way we book a hotel, navigate around a city or order our dinner. almost exactly one year ago, the commission set out its thoughts on online platforms in general and on the collaborative economy more specifically. i welcome the opportunity given today to respond to parliament’s report by meps mr danti, mr juvin and ms virkkunen in response to our communications shaping the debate at eu level. first on a collaborative economy: the commission welcomes mep danti’s report. it provides a balanced view on current developments in the collaborative economy. we agree with mr danti that to facilitate the development of the collaborative economy, we need legal clarity and we should avoid regulatory fermentation in the single market. we need to ensure that the collaborative economy is not unduly restricted. i would like also to recall that the commission adopted a communication in june 2016 providing legal guidance and policy recommendations on how to ensure the balanced development of the collaborative economy. the commission will continue working with member states and stakeholders on this matter. we also agree with you that peers offering services on a private and occasional basis are different from professional services providers’ thresholds, although precisely defining them is difficult. identifying peers can contribute to establishing a clear and proportionate regulatory framework. the commission takes note of your call for a level playing field. we think that it is for consumers, not regulators, to choose which service they prefer. eu law requires that national regulation is justified and proportionate. this means taking into consideration the specificities of the collaborative economy whilst not favouring one business model over another. i want to acknowledge the need to ensure social protection for the self-employed, as you do, under the european pillar of social rights. this topic will be subject to consultation with social partners. finally, i wish to call upon parliament, member states and stakeholders to work together to enable users and consumers to choose the service they want and to seize the opportunities that the collaborative economy offers. secondly, on platforms. the platform economy is now a major feature of the digital transformation across the entire world. more than two billion people are using social networks, a number expected to reach three billion by 2020. the report by meps mr juvin and ms virkkunen rightly acknowledges the positive impact of online platforms and reaffirms the need to further promote the emergence of new online platforms in europe. the report supports the commission approach – that is how i read it – of first looking at better enforcement of existing instruments before resorting to designing new rules, which should be targeted to specific problems. as part of the digital single market strategy, the commission undertook to carry out an in-depth assessment of the role of online platforms. the commission’s communication on the digital single market mid-term review, adopted recently on 10 may, announces a number of actions that will tackle some of the main issues raised in your report. we need to safeguard a fair, predictable, trusted business environment in the online economy. sellers should benefit fully from platforms and at the same time, platform businesses should be able to start up and grow in europe. this is why i warmly welcome your strong support for the commission’s ongoing work on platform-to-business (‘ptob’) trading practices, impact assessment for action still to be proposed in 2017 and intermediary liability. the commission will make sure that any possible policy intervention is first targeted, i.e. specific to online platform ecosystems; secondly, problem—driven, that means addressing clearly identified problems; and thirdly, with a light touch i.e. without laying down detailed sector-specific rules in eu legislation. finally, the commission can echo your conclusion that the intermediary liability regime is a crucial pillar for the eu’s digital economy. the commission remains committed to keeping a balanced and predictable liability regime and it is currently working on guidance to eliminate certain flaws in its enforcement, including to allow online platforms to comply with their responsibilities, and the rules on liability enhance legal certainty and increase user confidence.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – madam president, i am speaking on behalf of ms constance le grip, who was the rapporteur for the opinion in the committee on legal affairs for online platforms. online platforms are key players for the future of the global economy. they offer great opportunities by fostering access and relationships, but pose a lot of economic and legal challenges as well. as rapporteur for the opinion, constance le grip welcomes the result of the report voted in the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the fact that the contribution from the opinion on the committee on legal affairs was very much valued within the text, which will be voted in plenary tomorrow. the report states key aspects fully in line with our opinion about the way europe should deal with platforms: clarify platforms’ responsibility so that no regulatory frameworks are bypassed because of the digital nature of their activities, and further enforce and protect copyright and intellectual property rights online. this should be translated in encouraging the transfer of value towards rights holders for the exploitation of the works online, and in proceeding to a revision of the intellectual property rights enforcement (ipre) directive to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting online, ensure fair competition and practices in the platform economy, both for b2b and b2c, and promote the emergence of european players in the field.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to these reports, because the results of this cooperation, which goes beyond the boundaries of the committees, are very satisfactory. first of all, we must say that we are experiencing massive changes that we all understand only very partially, and that we can agree that digital capabilities have already significantly changed our habits and simplified our lives in many places. secondly, however, many of the rules that have been created for analogue markets are not all suitable for achieving the desired effects in the digital domain in the same way. i would like to focus my remarks on those platforms which have a so-called gatekeeper function and are therefore a necessary condition for all companies to enter the single market. but so far, these gatekeeper platforms are only following their own rules and self-imposed principles, which makes it difficult for many start-ups in europe to grow as they could, to use the innovations as they invented them. this is why we need to urgently tighten up competition law in this area, because we need to ensure that the principles of the social market economy apply in the digital age as they did in the analogue age.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you for your introduction. it's actually like this: what lasts long finally becomes good. we have been talking for a long time, for several years, about the package of services for ports in europe and about the so-called port package 3, which we have just completed. and it is true that one of the conditions laid down by parliament was that we should introduce the regulation on group exemptions. the ports must be liberalised - anything else would be bad for our competitiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. the first three speakers, all from the netherlands, make it almost seem as if we were talking about the netherlands, which of course has many ports, of course, but we have many ports in germany too. i think that what has now happened has been very successful - i am speaking quite deliberately not about taxes but about the block exemption regulation, which we have now really sought. i think it is good that we now know exactly what the public sector can invest in infrastructure without having to obtain any concessions and that is fixed: 150 million euros per year can be in seaports and 50 million in inland ports - these are also included, which makes things much easier and is really a piece of bureaucracy reduction. i also think it is good that there is no longer any distinction between initial dredging and maintenance dredging. of course, the fact that waterways are no longer punished and are also exempted from being dug into or out of ports also plays a major role - or is important and welcome - as does investment in the beginning of the port's hinterland connection, namely, for example, railways and motorways leading directly out of the ports. i also welcome the fact that in this case the infrastructure for alternative fuels and investments that are to be made there for ships, for shore-side electricity for example or for lng, are also covered by the exemption. i am sorry that in this case the distinction between public and general infrastructure has not yet been made in the aid. that's still unclear, that would make it even easier. but overall, the competitiveness of our ports has been considerably improved.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank parliament for this debate. at the core, it is clear that we agree that ports are of crucial importance in the european union. the commission will continue to do what is necessary to facilitate investment and to ensure fair and transparent competition in this sector. as i said earlier, the commission is committed to informing parliament as soon as it has completed the ongoing investigations in the area of corporate tax exemptions for ports. it also committed to explain to parliament how it facilitates investment in ports, as it did in the general block exemption regulation in many state aid cases. i think you will agree that there is substantial progress. i have heard your various remarks. i want to assure you that the commission is not in the pay of anyone and that it does its work in complete independence. as for transparency, you can ask the states for information. it turns out that the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the commission covers the situation, but there is a question of trust between the states and the commission. i therefore think you can address these directly. there is a second question that has been raised, namely the hiatus between france and belgium on the one hand and the netherlands on the other, which is due to the fact, as i have tried to explain, that the information was not available at the same time. they were available in the netherlands well before, in the 2000s. finally, the question of royal commissions was raised. i want there to be no ambiguity on this point. in this respect, the states do what they want: royal missions are not subject to the state aid regime. i think that we must continue to talk about this and clarify the matter, within the limits of the trust agreement i was talking about, which is also part of our rules and operating methods.
member of the commission. madam president, i welcome once again the opportunity we have today to debate the question of european political parties and foundations. the commission has taken note of the points raised in our debate on this in march. at that time we expressed our willingness to work with you to see how the new rules worked in practice. as we pointed out then, the 2014 regulation makes use of important innovations, including enhanced safeguards to ensure that all parties registered in the system respect fundamental european values. but even good rules can be improved. the commission has taken note of the suggestions for further amendments to the rules of procedure made by some of the existing parties, by certain foundations and by this house. she believes that the experience of the current system's operation over the past few months requires further improvements even before the next elections in 2019. this is an ambitious objective which can only be achieved if the changes are carefully targeted and if the political ground is well prepared to garner sufficient support from both your assembly and the council. some of the amendments we are considering today, such as the reduction of the co-financing rate, have already been put forward by the commission in the past but have not been supported by the member states. it will be important for all those who advocate change to advocate it in national capitals too, because that is where, as you know, the key to many decisions or decision blocks lies. today's debate and the resolution you intend to adopt at its conclusion will be useful for the commission's thinking. the commission would welcome any opportunity offered by the european parliament to continue to gather the views of external experts, in particular through hearings. i cannot prejudge today what the college might decide on specific proposals for change, but i can assure you that we are actively working on these issues. the commission has already expressed its position on your specific suggestions in the march plenary, and i just want to stress again that it is a strong supporter of energetic and dynamic political parties, representative at european level, and that it is actively looking at the best options to continue to refine the system further, to give it more ways of meeting the fervour of the citizens. i look forward to voting on your resolution in the same spirit.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. in my country, parties receive campaign contributions in proportion to their success in elections. and when parties get donations, the state puts in a little extra. the federal constitutional court has said: yes, functioning democracies also need functioning parties. but there are strict limits to that. and they were set in my country, which doesn't mean they're not occasionally violated. but then it's punished severely. we need european parties and we are glad that a first step has been taken through the existing rules. but we have seen that these regulations are not enough. we obviously did not realize the energy with which some people are looking for loopholes. we consider it a mistake that members elected on lists of parties which have no european party family set up structures one by one, apply for funds, then obviously spend them incorrectly, and when we check and recover the funds, the parties are insolvent or no longer exist. we must put a stop to these practices. i would also like to say that i would not object to the fact that not only the damage has to be compensated, but that penalties have to be introduced. in any case, we must close loopholes and not take the time until 2018 that we originally planned to do, but must act now.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. we have already had this debate three months ago and there have been no new developments since then. the only thing that remains is the intention to keep up the pressure on the commission. i can therefore repeat what i have already said: we adopted a regulation in 2014 that addresses the changed responsibilities of european political parties and presents and defines improved regulations. we have given the parties a clear legal status, defined their rights and obligations and created a much better financial framework. the question arises as to why members of some parties have been pushing for months to revise this regulation, since the regulation itself has not yet been fully implemented. and it was these parties that determined its present concrete orientation. at the same time, the public is not told what it is about. why should the prohibition of profit be definitively relaxed? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. why not say how you want to compensate for this gap? and we are in favour of implementing it first and starting from mid-2018 - that is, tomorrow - looking more closely at what may not be sustainable in the long term, including the loopholes.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this interesting debate. i have noted the points of view that have been expressed. the commission, i repeat, believes very strongly in the need for active and strong political parties at european level and we are quite willing to cooperate with you to this end. many suggestions, comments and proposals have been made in this direction. the resolution which your assembly plans to adopt tomorrow will be an important and very welcome contribution to our reflection on the best options for further refining the framework governing political parties at european level. i therefore think that this debate is going in the same direction as we would like it to go. this is the right direction for european democracy.
in writing. i support the resolution because i am in favour of a revision of the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have always felt that we have always been talking past each other in our dialogue with the european commission. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take account of the fact that the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. instead, an eu industrial strategy should define objectives and identify actions to achieve them. the commission's mainstream approach is reaching its limits at a time when challenges are testing the stability of european industry. these are the enormous pressures of international competition and digitisation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in the first case we must link industrial policy much more closely with trade policy. the americans benefit from exchanges with the eu - trump will understand this eventually - and the chinese still depend on foreign know-how. we should use those levers. we must take the chinese rhetoric of free trade at its word and push for reciprocity in market access and intellectual property protection. when we look at europe, it is particularly important to me that competition, environmental, social and trade policies should be better integrated. but greater integration of policy areas also means that we must pay much more attention to social acceptance, and that can only be achieved through dialogue with trade unions and employers. in germany, for example, the future of industry alliance is working successfully, and i am sure that similar forums exist in other member states. a european dialogue can lead to an industrial strategy that makes sense of the intersectoral and sectoral elements. it must find answers to questions such as: how do we keep the value added and know-how in europe, and which areas are really crucial for the future? and only then does it make sense to adapt the legal framework or, for example, to define the priorities for research and infrastructure funding after 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased about this discussion and would like to thank the colleagues who initiated it. mrs bieńkowska, if you have been listening carefully, you should learn a lesson from this discussion: stop patting yourself on the back as if you are doing everything right! in a time of revolution, you have to have great design ambition if you don't want to end up in a dead end. i don't see that kind of design ambition in you. i believe that six principles are necessary for this industrial policy initiative. firstly, we need a european strategy, not just an aggregation of national strategies. secondly, innovation must be at the centre. that's what everyone says. thirdly, we need a policy that is cross-cutting rather than adding up failed attempts. fourthly, we need inclusiveness, and inclusiveness applies both to the workers whom mrs werner has mentioned and to the regions on which we cannot depend. fifthly, we need a holistic approach, as mrs toia said. the holistic approach also means, in my view, that we must combine competitiveness and sustainability, as this parliament has already decided. you, mrs bieńkowska, do not use that word. the only time you ever go in that direction is when you talk about climate, but only about investment climate. there's a big hole in your vision! they fail to see what the basis for a successful european industrial policy of the future is, namely the combination of competitiveness and sustainability, the combination of digitalisation and eco-efficiency strategies. and sixthly, we also need a framework. we discussed yesterday the question of foreign direct investment in sensitive areas. we need to discuss competition law. it all adds up. i'm looking forward to it.
the commission has already done so. industry is important for the prosperity and well-being of the people of europe. obviously it's not going well. that's the stock. the share of industry in the world is declining, the european share is declining. so something has to be done. that doesn't mean it was all right. and now there's a dispute about what's right. some say, "another dialogue, another conversation; some have even said: more laws; others said more money. i think this is all wrong. i believe - as some of my colleagues have said - that industry in europe has a chance if we help where we can help, but also give industry the opportunity to develop itself. the key is innovation yes, of course! what are we doing at horizon? we cut. that's great. that's great. implementing structural reforms in the countries: this is the responsibility of the member states. where member states are not making good progress, we help, we apply pressure half-heartedly. the commission is not always halfhearted in taking advantage of the opportunities that are available. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. we are arguing about whether ceta is right, whether ttip is right half the people in this room don't want that. yes, and then there is the question: does industry, do companies have room to develop, within the limits of the regulations that have been set? and then we happily decide to continue regulation. the truth is, we are deciding on a lot of the burdens that european industry has to bear, if you look at the whole range of industry, climate change, energy policy and so on. it's not about the principle, it's about the scale. and we are exaggerating. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr reul. since you have just been so sharply critical of the fact that we are constantly adding burdens to industry, i would ask you to list: what burdens have this parliament decided on on the initiative of the juncker commission since 2014 that you are so sharply criticising?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'd like that. you know that i think the issue of emissions trading is being exaggerated. we have tried to correct that in parliament. i'm curious to see what comes out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that drives up the cost. these are just two small examples. i'd like to have a few more, but i can't talk any more.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, we have asked you five relatively specific questions. i didn't hear any answers. the most common thing you said in your speech is 'we should' or 'we should' and that is not an answer to a question because in fact we expect us to react to development. if you look at this, there's a fast train going, driven by globalization, driven by digitalization, and we're looking at what the old steam locomotive is doing, and we're trying to turn one or the other of the gears. this is not a solution! we need, as mrs toia said, an integrated strategy within the eu and across the different sectors. so we need answers to the question of how you want to stay ahead in innovation, how you want to ensure the participation of workers, how you want to ensure that the european part in global value chains is strengthened. so it's not "you have to" but "when" and "what".
i have to say, madam president, the region's industry orders and exports bring in income. it creates jobs and purchasing power, it creates tax revenue, it funds social achievements. this is part of social europe - perhaps the most important part. we should therefore guard industry like our eyeballs and take warning signs seriously. first, investment in domestic energy-intensive industries is less than depreciation - that is, creeping deindustrialization. we are the champions of the climate and the environment. if we continue to turn this screw, other regions will be our business. the losers are the climate and jobs. that is why our climate policy must finally take account of the competitiveness of the economy. secondly, the big data companies are not european - from the car industry to the shops. but whoever knows the data on customer behavior today will determine the products of tomorrow. that is why we must rely on digitisation and broadband. but that is also why data is more a raw material than a source of danger. we need to make this a matter of policy.
a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr tannock has described the situation very well. the most shocking thing about this case of journalist afqan muxtarlı is that the injustice is obviously not only in azerbaijan, but that the arm of injustice extends from azerbaijan to georgia. and it is very important to us that this case is clarified in its entirety and that independent investigations are carried out not only in azerbaijan, but also in georgia. i very much hope that our resolution will help afqan muxtarlı. i am sure that commissioner hahn, who will be in baku tomorrow, will negotiate this. and i hope that all other cases of injustice will also be the subject of relations between the european institutions and azerbaijan. our resolution calls not only for the immediate release of afqan muxtarlı but also for the release of dozens of other journalists and human rights defenders who are unjustly imprisoned and tortured in azerbaijan.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to express my support for the postponement of the vote on the resolution on the afqan muxtarlı case as it is being discussed. we have to make a balanced effort between the expectations of those whose rights have been violated and the search for a suitable way of helping to achieve universal rights. dialogue - at whatever level it is conducted - is a thousand times better than a confrontation which is essentially silent. a few days ago, i was able to observe for myself in the south caucasus how complex the processes of social transformation in the region are, how great the need for joint social learning processes and dating processes. the human rights demands of our resolution are clearly set out here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. the obvious abduction of a refugee from persecution and his transfer to the country from which he fled is wrong. we also demand: the country that pretended to be a safe haven must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that it had nothing to do with the kidnapping. azerbaijan has developed contradictorily in terms of human rights. we are learning again that our demands can only be met in a sustainable way if the systems of power are changed. the criminalisation of criticism and critics will continue, but in the end they will not be punished and prosecuted. equal arms in conflicts between the state and the individual cannot exist either, it is not guaranteed by law. we are already in the phase of intensive preparations for the next summit on the eastern neighbourhood. i would like to invite the commission, in the context of this discussion, to consider how the eu is developing its instruments in this area. the european parliament is interested in producing fewer thursday resolutions and much more in bringing about real change in our partner countries.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. would you make the same proposal if commissioner hahn were a social democrat?
a writer. the commission is not homosexuality is not illegal in indonesia. however, since january 2016, the constitutional court has been examining a petition that intends to criminalize homosexual sexual relations as well as any consensual sexual relations outside of marriage. last year saw an unprecedented rise in discrimination, intimidation and verbal attacks against lgbti people, a trend that continued in 2017. it was therefore very positive that president joko widodo publicly spoke out against this discrimination last october. it is now necessary to take concrete measures to protect lgbti persons from intolerance and human rights violations. the independent province of aceh is governed by sharia law. in fact, the punishment for homosexual relations is still flogging - a punishment that amounts to torture. this humiliating and inhumane practice must be stopped immediately. finally, homosexuality should be legalized in aceh.
member of the commission. – mr president, as many members noted, the european union has friendly and close relations with indonesia based on the solid framework of our eu-indonesia partnership and cooperation agreement. we value our close partnership with this country. the eu has always had the highest regard for indonesia’s tradition as a pluralist, diverse and tolerant society but we acknowledge incidents that might call this tradition into question now. members of this house have raised a number of human rights issues in indonesia, including the situation of the lgbti community, media freedom, the application of the blasphemy law, the rights of the minorities, women’s rights and christians’ rights. the eu has established a constructive and cooperative engagement on human rights in the form of a regular human rights dialogue with indonesia, which allows for an exchange also on very sensitive subjects. we had the sixth human rights dialogue last june and we are planning for the next meeting later in this year. we also use other available opportunities to discuss human rights issues, through traditional diplomatic tools. the eu has encouraged indonesia to abide by its international human rights commitments under the international covenant on civil and political rights (iccpr) and to ensure that national and regional laws, both in their formulation and implementation, do not discriminate against any of its citizens. in regard to lgbti persons, we welcome the statement by president joko widodo last october, when he said the police must act, that there should be no discrimination against anyone and that protection should be ensured. the right to freedom of religion or belief is guaranteed in indonesia’s constitution. the european union has consistently stated that laws that criminalise blasphemy can, when applied in a discriminatory manner, have a serious inhibiting effect on freedom of expression and on freedom of religion or belief. we note that the constitutional court reviewed the blasphemy law in 2010 but found it not to be in violation of the constitution. we note renewed debate about the law in indonesia, where the eu has made its voice very hard. let me add that several projects are funded under the european initiative on democracy and human rights, on freedom of religion and belief and protection of minority groups. be assured that the eu will continue to use every opportunity, including the next eu-indonesia human rights dialogue, to continue to raise the relevant issues with our indonesian counterparts.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. most of you will know: yesterday, a serious attack on members of the american congress took place in washington. on the eve of a benefit at a sports stadium, the majority leader of the us congress has been shot in the stomach. other members of parliament have also been shot and wounded. police officers prevented the worst, saved their lives and were themselves injured. i believe it is an expression of our transatlantic solidarity and our good relations with the american congress that we send our best wishes to the seriously injured and that we condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms and thank the police officers who saved the lives of the members of parliament in order to guarantee parliamentary freedom and security.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged question under rule 130b of the rules of procedure by beatrix von storch, daniela aiuto, kristina winberg and joëlle bergeron, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the celebration of the international day of the family 2017: promoting the role of parents in ensuring quality education for their children (o-000030/2017/rév.1 - b8-0315/2017) (2017/2736(rsp)).
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the occasion for this debate today is the international day of families, and the united nations has issued a handshake to mark it. second, the united nations says, mother and father are the most important reference points in the lives of children, especially infants. the united nations says that the best place for socializing young children is within the family - within the family rather than outside the family. and the more fathers and mothers take care of their children, the better off the children are, says the united nations. parental education is a measurable, economically and socially relevant service that must be promoted, says the united nations. in summary, the un says: the most important thing for children in their lives is their father and mother - their parents - not a full-time kindergarten or out-of-home care. you see, this is the exact opposite of what religion seems to be in this house. the european union prefers to support crèches like those in the eastern bloc and the gdr. mothers should not be looking after their babies, but they should be working on the bench, because that is the only true achievement and career. and in the noichl report we actually decided that marriage - of course only traditional marriage and not gay marriage and the role of father and mother - is a health hazard. that is probably why we have the commissioner for health here today, not the commissioner responsible, mrs jourová. family is a health risk. the eu simply does not want to recognise the importance of the family and the role of father and mother, even though they are the most important in a child's life. but there are member states which are on the right track. for example, hungary recently held a demographic summit under the orbán government. they had previously launched a series of family policies that do just that - supporting fathers and mothers for their children and for early childhood education. so there are those member states which have taken the right path, and i would like for germany and also for the european union, but especially, of course, for my country germany, that we take this hungarian path in family policy. and that means that we have to completely move away from the path that is being taken in this house and move towards the path that the united nations describes: that the most important thing in a child's life is a father and a mother and a family, and not the state as the supreme authority; that's the faith here, that's the basic traffic. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. of course, that's not the case, not at all. the families should be free from state interference and in particular from the european union. it is not at all the responsibility of the european union to interfere. but what we do from this house is we get involved, we do awareness campaigns and campaigns for all kinds of life forms and so on, against fathers, against mothers. that's exactly what we're not supposed to do. so, first we interfere, and then we interfere in the wrong way. no interference, national responsibility - that is a very clear message.
i'm not going to say anything. i had it checked again. your group has two minutes in total - one minute for you and one minute for mrs d'ornano. please, mrs. d'ornano, you have the floor.
thank you, commissioner. let me also get something personal out of the way: my parents were both always working people, and i grew up in a very happy family. and for that, i am very, very grateful. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau's request under rule 130b of the rules of procedure, tabled by mr curzio maltese, martina michels, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on video platforms and editorial responsibility (o-000035/2017 - b8-0318/2017) (2017/2737(rsp)).
i know that a minute is a stretch on some subjects. but your group has given you only one minute. that's why i can't just let time go by. i'm sorry about that. catch the eye
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 3.55 p.m.)
mr president, i want to remind all my colleagues that the german bundestag took an absolutely historic decision last friday. finally, germany joined those eu member states which have open marriage for same-sex couples. this is a historic moment, and as a german citizen and a member of the lgbti community, i want to thank every single member of this parliament who has fought in recent years to make this possible. were it not a member state of the european union, germany probably would not be at that this stage right now. so thank you very much – for equality and for diversity. love is unstoppable! (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mr sorin moisă and the committee on international trade for their valuable work, and also the committee on foreign affairs and committee on budgets for their support. as you know, the european commission submitted its proposal for a macro-financial assistance operation to moldova in the context of difficult political and economic transition. following the banking fraud scandal of 2014 the new moldovan government was appointed in february 2016, adopting a package of key reforms in areas like public governance and anti-corruption. in support of this new reformed path, the eu and moldova agreed on the roadmap for priority reforms at the beginning of 2016 and with the foreign affairs council conclusions of 16 february 2016. moldova, which is one of the poorest countries in the european neighbourhood needs macro-financial assistance to cover its external financing needs and underpin its slow recovery from the recession in 2015. this macro-financial assistance complements the assistance of the international monetary fund, which resumed its assistance and approved a new, extended fund facility agreement on 7 november last year. therefore, it is crucial that the eu, together with other international donors, uses this window of opportunity for reforms in moldova and supports the new moldovan government in its efforts to implement key reforms and bring back economic recovery. however, the commission shares the concerns of parliament with regard to important areas like corruption, money laundering, independent judiciary, independent media, and the implementation of the eu-moldova association agreement. therefore, the commission supports the five amendments to the recitals of its proposals to address these concerns. let me also reassure you that the commission will entirely be guided by these new recitals when implementing this assistance and, in particular, when designing the conditionality of this operation of the memorandum of understanding between the eu and moldova. the commission also shares the concerns of parliament regarding the recent initiatives in moldova to introduce a new electoral system. therefore we support the joint statement of the three institutions, recalling that the precondition for granting macro-financial assistance is that the beneficiary country respects effective democratic mechanisms, including a multi-party parliamentary system and the rule of law, and guarantees respect for human rights. the commission and the european external action service will closely monitor the fulfilment of this pre-condition throughout the lifecycle of this operation and will pay utmost attention to how moldova follows up on the recommendations of international partners, in particular the recommendations of the venice commission and of the office for democratic institutions and human rights of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe related to the proposed changes in the electoral system. before closing my remarks i would like to underline again that no disbursement of macro-financial assistance for moldova will take place if the political preconditions as well as specific economic and financial conditions are not fulfilled. i hope we can count on parliament’s support for moldova on its path to reform and i would like to underline that the council, in a letter of 15 june this year, from coreper, confirmed the approval of the commission’s proposal as agreed in the trilogue, subject the approval of the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was using the blue card to report to mr mureşan when he began to speak, as is customary. i did not want to ask mr auštrevičius a question, but i would like to ask mr mureşan a question. i was present during his speech, which was at the very beginning of his speech. i ask that you take this into account as you always do.
mr president, it is not your obligation to judge what i knew or did not know. i want to pose a question please.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr mureşan, you have spoken very politically. i would like to ask you a question about moldova's ability to repay its debts. is there a debt sustainability analysis for moldova? who did this debt sustainability analysis? what has been the outcome of this debt sustainability analysis?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not for us in the group of the european people's party, the people of moldova are at the centre. we all know that the situation in moldova is very borderline for many, many people and moldova is one of the poorest countries in our europe. nevertheless, it is important to us that certain conditions be met. i am therefore very, very grateful to the commission for having once again referred to many conditions which are very close to our hearts, namely the question of the rule of law and democracy in moldova, the question of the fight against corruption, the question of the responsible use of the funds which we hope to be able to make available tomorrow as a parliament. but it is intolerable what the government seems to be intending at the moment on the question of the right to vote. it is therefore very good that the institutions have agreed on the joint declaration, in which we all explicitly refer to the conditions of the venice commission. but i would like to make it very clear, mr commissioner, that the commission really wants to make it clear once again that this electoral law cannot be changed in the way that the government in moldova seems to be planning, but that we can only release the money if the conditions of the venice commission are really implemented one by one. and i would be very, very grateful if the commission would make that very clear, either in your final statement, mr commissioner, or tomorrow before the vote. you 'll see this: every speech so far has addressed this issue. we cannot allow the democratic situation in moldova to deteriorate and then pay money to reward it. i would also like to thank mr winkler, who has been the lead rapporteur on this dossier for our group. we would be glad if tomorrow, when we make the money available, we could really agree on what our conditions are and if the commission could then really make sure that these conditions are met without any back door. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! if i have not been clear or if the translation is not clear enough, thank you very much for asking. we are all agreed that we want moldova to develop towards the european union and towards freedom, democracy and the rule of law. that is why we are concerned, because we want a democratic moldova with the rule of law close by, and that is why we attach great importance to providing assistance - that is not in question for us in the group. but we want to make sure that the democratic situation in moldova continues to improve and not deteriorate in the coming months and years, and that is what many - like the venice commission or many political actors in moldova - are unfortunately worried about at the moment.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. we have been sending money to moldova for many years now, in the hope that reforms will take place, that conditions for the people will improve. that has often not been the case in the past. it is a disaster what has happened there in part, involving all sorts of so-called democratic parties one of the prime ministers is in prison, others are under indictment. it is therefore perfectly right for us to say: we do not want to go on this way. the result has not only been that we have felt more and more critical, the result has also been that the people of moldova have turned more and more away, not only from their respective governments, but also from those who support them namely us. that is why it is right: this cannot continue. now we have a new government that has really not just talked about this or that, but delivered it. the international monetary fund has confirmed this and has taken positive action accordingly. we expect that to continue, that it not only be talked about, but delivered. i would like to make it quite clear, so that there is no misunderstanding, that it is not our business what voting rights moldova grants itself. that's out of the question! because they're not under our patronage. whether they take over english or german or any other right to vote is their business. but how they introduce it, who they discuss it with, whether they seek consensus, whether they involve the ngos - that's what we're interested in, in order to arrive at a result. i am in any case in favour of saying a clear yes to macrofinancing tomorrow, under the conditions which have been mentioned here several times.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the international covenant on civil and political rights. we have always said as a group that macrofinancial assistance should not be used to create new debt prospects but should be used to provide large-scale grants instead of loans. however, in its just-released report on the implementation of financial assistance, the eu commission considers that the economic and political situation in the country in 2016 is increasingly difficult. i therefore ask you, commissioner, whether the recent developments in moldova are in your view the characteristics of a reliable partner acting in accordance with the rule of law. the country's population continues to suffer from the influence of oligarch vlad plahotniuc on government and economy. you know that, and we know that. i have therefore advocated strict conditions for the payment of each instalment. this includes explicitly respect for human rights and fundamental democratic rights and an independent judiciary committed to the rule of law. the opposite has happened in the past week. grigore petrenco and seven other young people were sentenced to three to four and a half years in prison on june 28 for organizing and participating in a demonstration for social justice after a trial that was unanimously considered "doubtful" by all international observers. the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, the german and us governments refer to the men as political prisoners. is this to set the political tone for the next elections? we were just talking about voting rights. i would also like to ask you, commissioner, to give a very specific assessment of the situation before any money is sent to the government. the commission has said that 'macro-financial assistance requires respect for human rights and effective democratic mechanisms in the recipient country'.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank mrs mizzi for her excellent work and for having taken all the suggestions of the itre committee into account. as someone who has spent my entire professional life in this industry, i know that it is important that we need standards in information and communication technology to really achieve the digital single market. but in this discussion - not with you, but with some other colleagues - i have repeatedly stated that we still need to catch up, including on the subject of prejudice. i have noticed that american companies are often demonized on this issue. we should stop doing that because we also need cooperation with the americans, especially when it comes to this issue of information and communication technology. secondly, we should stop demonizing big business. it is important that we support small and mediumsized enterprises. but why are corporations a bad thing? we all know that corporations - even the big ones - need many thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises and vice versa. thirdly, i would point out that standards are not to be confused with harmonization. we need standards to create competition, because competition between small units always leads to a stronger whole. but if we are also harmonizing in europe at the same time - and we do this at every opportunity - then we are disturbing and destroying competition. it's like running a marathon: of course, you have to know that you can run 26 miles and 195 yards, and that applies to everyone. but imagine if the runners were to hold hands at the start of the race and promise that they would all arrive at the finish line at the same time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think the report presented by mrs mizzi and drawn up with our shadow rapporteurs is a good one. he may be better than the debate today. i would therefore like to add only three points. firstly, i believe that standards are the result of private law cooperation between the bodies associated in the standardization organizations. that is why there is no connection with public legislation, and that is something that may have to be said to the european court of justice at one point or another. private standards have nothing to do with legislation. secondly: ....mrs parker is leaving now it would be a pity, because i could have explained to her how big ...companies from the uk like vodafone came to the european continent by taking over some parts of the market because european standards allowed them to participate. i think it is outrageous that this economic coincidence is neglected here, and i think they will pay a high price for this, because without these common standards for the whole internal market, companies that operate in a smaller marketplace will be cut off. these standards allow big companies and small companies, all over europe, to take the part of the market they want to have, and therefore i think they are also in the interest of companies from the country from which ms parker comes and which is leaving the european union. i would like to add one more point. i think mrs gáll-pelcz has raised this point: one of the current issues in the field of standardization is the so-called frand standard, which allows all parties to have access to standard-essential patents on fair terms. i also believe that this process should be strengthened so that we can maintain a level playing field for all market participants in the future. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr szanyi, thank you very much for your question. in fact, we have a great interest in making rural areas digitally accessible throughout the european union - whether in your country or in my country. and i think we need to not only have the infrastructure to do that, but we need to provide standards that can be used by businesses of all sizes. it is therefore good that we have not defined in this report a definition of open standards that goes beyond the definition given in regulation 1025/2012. i think this is a good way to enable rural areas to connect to the digital infrastructure. i hope that answers your question.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. your commitment has shown that you are really trying everything - and you are also a doctor of the field - to assist us and support us in our resolution. it's actually like this: i'm from germany, and you might think that -- if you look at the public -- aids is not so bad anymore. because the only thing i see left of aids are these certain large posters that say, "don't give aids a chance, use condoms!" you get so used to it, you think it's okay to have aids. it is still a disease that is slow to die, but it is deadly. and she's still being discriminated against. i'm from lower saxony, and i heard just a few years ago that if someone died of aids, and in order to improve the memory of the deceased and the reputation of the family, it had to be said that he died of cancer, not aids. so it's still discriminatory to have this disease. and that's why it's important to educate and do everything and also focus in research on whether there's something that can be done to really cure this disease in general. it has already been pointed out by my colleagues that the link between aids, tuberculosis and hepatitis c is indeed deadly and very difficult. and that is why it is important to work together between the different member states. tuberculosis, as the commissioner said, is a social disease, it affects poor people. that's right, i did. in the rich countries or in the rich classes in europe, it's not really there. but in eastern european countries, or in poor households in particular, it is still very much alive and can be deadly. and that's why it's so important to focus on this and think about what we can do. and then also - as has already been said - the link with multi-drug resistant germs, where we have a strategy at eu level: that should also be given very strong focus. the question is whether the g20 will deal with this as we would like. finally, hepatitis c is often not detected early enough, but it can be cured. and that's why it's so important to watch how these diseases develop. i think we're on the right track if we all do what we say here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we regularly receive images of horrific war crimes from all over the world. the eu must continue to help prevent such atrocities and bring perpetrators to justice including through support for the international criminal court. in each member state it must be possible to prosecute alleged war criminals in accordance with the principle of international law. we must clearly state where war crimes are being committed. we have done this recently in parliament for yemen. but we also have to say who's responsible. unfortunately, there was no majority to condemn clearly and decisively the criminal warfare of the saudi-led coalition. in this report, parliament reiterates its call on you, high representative mogherini, to establish an annual list of those who are allegedly responsible for violations of international humanitarian law.
in writing. zero-hour contracts, sham self-employment and involuntary part-time work are on the rise. only 59% of workers in europe are now on fulltime contracts. this is partly due to the lack of ambition on the part of the european commission and some member states to commit themselves to a strong european social model. equal value for money, equal rights and fair competition are the conditions for a well-functioning internal market. this is the only way to protect workers and small and mediumsized enterprises. in the owninitiative report we therefore call on the commission and the member states to enshrine the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place' in the revision of the posting of workers directive. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. they must be adapted to the current occupational health and safety regulations.
rapporteur. – mr president, covered bonds have been a very successful debt instrument for more than 200 years in europe. they are convenient and efficient for the issuing institutions and they are reliable assets for investors, in particular for financial institutions. this success relies on basically two factors. factor one is economic: economically the success relies on the existence of high-quality collateral on long-lasting assets which are easily valued and repossessed. the second factor is institutional: institutionally the success relies on the existence of a legal and supervisory framework, such as dual recourse, segregation of cover pools and special public supervision. given the success of covered bonds, eu law has granted preferential treatment to covered bonds over other assets in various pieces of european legislation, in particular in the capital requirements regulation (crr), in the bank recovery and resolution directive (brrd) and in the liquidity coverage requirement (lcr) delegated act. this preferential treatment is only justified if the collateral quality is high, so the first factor that i have mentioned is indeed satisfied. however, the problem is that union law lacks a clear definition of covered bonds. the undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) directive definition is silent on precisely this first factor, on the quality of assets, relying merely on the institutional characteristics of covered bonds. this is not enough to warrant preferential treatment. on the other hand, if we look at the second factor – the institutional environment – this suggests that the institutional environment might be expanded to other types of assets, perhaps more risky and less liquid types of assets and covered pools, such as sme credits, infrastructure projects which are not guaranteed by government, or consumer credits, and possibly to shipping finance. the european parliament is suggesting drawing a distinction between three different categories of assets, with the third and final class not called ‘covered bond’ but ‘european secured note’. we would like to distinguish between premium covered bonds and ordinary covered bonds, where the premium covered bonds are those which satisfy the higher criteria on the quality of assets that are specified in the crr, whereas the ordinary covered bonds are merely ucits compatible. parliament is also appealing to national lawmakers to distinguish clearly higher-risk or lower-liquidity assets from those assets which are eligible for ucits-type covered bonds, leaving sme credits, infrastructure investments and consumer credits to a new instrument which, as i have said, would be called european secured notes. expanding the institutional environment to these riskier or less liquid classes of assets would be growth-enhancing, we believe, and would serve the objectives of the capital markets union. moreover, the european union’s covered bond framework could then be a sort of gold standard for developing covered bond markets world-wide and could open up the eu capital market for issuers in third countries which make use of this efficient debt instrument, provided they have developed a comparable institutional framework. however, we insist that eu legislation be principles-based. one of the principles which should not be compromised is financial stability, and we therefore advise that soft bullet and conditional pass-through structures, which shift issuer risk to investors, may play an important role in preventing fire sales in the event of defaulter resolution, but they should be used only in these cases and only with approval of the supervisory authority. to conclude, what remains to be done, and what this report is silent on, is to remove the market distortions which set cbs at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis government bonds. zero-risk weights for government bonds strongly influence buyers’ market demand by banks in favour of government bonds and are a great impediment in disentangling sovereign debt crisis from banking crisis. it would be preferable to have all risk weights reflect market assessments of risk, and thereby remove a market distortion which disfavours cbs and involves great systemic risk. it would be good if the legislative proposal which the commission will present to parliament also addresses this issue.
i have to say, madam president, the maltese presidency of the council gave me the idea of reviewing the relationship between small and large states. we celebrated helmut kohl here last saturday as a great european. helmut kohl said that we must always treat small countries with dignity and respect. what's it like now? the last council presidencies were lithuania, estonia, slovakia, malta - so small states are now running europe. let us see: each country has a commissioner. and it's not that the big countries have the big commissioners. i'm not going to. it's different. mr juncker has chosen a vice-president from a small state. not from a big state. the ecb is a single-member institution with one vote for each country, no matter how small. germany too has a method of conducting monetary policy that is sensational in the world. let us look at the situation - mr juncker, you are looking at me now - the country of luxembourg has put forward three presidents: you, gaston thorn and pierre werner, germany has put forward only one: hallstein. we must now be careful to remember helmut kohl's words on the relationship between large and small states, who might now say: dear countries, dear members of the european union, do not forget the interests of the large states either.
i have to say, madam president, it has just been said: small states, big states. it has often been said that malta is the smallest state - and it is absolutely true. but i think that what makes the european union special is that everyone contributes, the small and the big states. and i find from my personal work perspective that malta has done a very good job there. i would now like to express my gratitude to the maltese presidency for three reasons - three reasons which have not yet been addressed: one is - all things i have experienced - an interministerial conference in malta, at the invitation of your commissioner, karmenu vella, on blue growth and at the same time on the further development of economic power in the mediterranean and on maritime tourism. it was very successful, in a very good atmosphere and with good decisions. another point on which i would like to thank you very much is that this is something that your president, mrs coleiro preca, is very much involved in, and this is also in line with migration policy and refugee flows. it is a matter of concern to the commission, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the measures taken by the member states are effective and that the commission is able to take action in the field of health and safety at work. i mean, i saw it: it is a small country, it cannot move everything, it cannot, of course, simply get out of the way, demand the solidarity that we urgently need in europe or even create the distribution key, but you are doing something very concrete to help these minorities, and maternal health, especially of pregnant refugee women, is an enormously important issue. a third point: you have successfully negotiated various points, various laws in the maritime sector, for maritime safety - i can also thank you on behalf of my colleagues in the alde group. and i have personally negotiated something with you very successfully, which is particularly important for malta, because it was about the qualification in inland navigation. you have no inland waterway transport at all, but i must say that your negotiating team has been very successful in working with me to ensure that, despite the resistance of some of the larger member states who said they wanted to legislate on this, it has succeeded in improving the mobility of workers in this sector and in doing some good there too. so, thank you again for my job. i 'm looking forward to it . in october you will be in malta, malta, for the follow-up conference to the great un ocean conference, which was in new york in june, again with karmenu vella, with whom i work very well. i think he is a very good commissioner, who is passionate about clean oceans, which can then serve humanity. thank you again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm not going to get into the "big or small" debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you too were unable to give parliament the important mandates of the ongoing negotiations on free trade agreements. what are you negotiating with japan? what does the new mandate for talks with morocco say after the court ruling in favour of western sahara and the polisario? to you and to the estonian presidency and to mr tusk: the council must act immediately! then the trade defence instruments. why were you so uncompromising in the trilogy? china's wto case has started rightly, and we're left empty-handed. you cared about ukraine. the import quotas for agricultural products should be increased further. it's not helping the country, it's helping a few big landowners in this country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the social and employment policy of the government in kiev is now a condition. the commission will, for the first time, have to report on the social impact of the measures in ukraine and in the union.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'll be with you in a moment. first of all, i think it is a shame that the maltese presidency of the council is being accused of not being able to solve the migration problem. that is a complete reversal of the facts! there are other member states which have for years refused to come up with joint solutions both to the causes of the flight and to the solidarity in the distribution of refugees. and it is hardly the maltese presidency that can be blamed for this, but those who have used harsh words here are actually the cause of the inability to implement a european policy on migration and refugees. unfortunately, we have had the failure of the maltese presidency to reform the money laundering directive. and again, i have to say that it is not your fault as maltese presidency that this has failed. many member states are soft on crime when it comes to financial crime, they protect the opacity of their trusts, germany has no cadastre. these are all things europe must work together on, and not protect every nation's dirty money. and mr prime minister, you owe me an answer to the question: what happened to the three investigative reports from your money laundering agency? why hasn't the police been investigated? i'm not talking about the one against you personally, but the other three. that is what you did not answer in our last debate. please come back with the answer.
mr president, mr muscat, you are a man of great integrity. malta has also become a special place globally. 79 acp states meet once a year in one of the countries in africa, the caribbean or the pacific. but the acp delegation also meets once a year in the country holding the presidency of the council in the european member states. mr president, after several years we have not met this year in strasbourg but in malta. malta is not only looking at the refugees on the ground, but also at the international responsibility. we should do much more than that as europe: europe away from any exit, but taking responsibility. we must not only show responsibility for this visibly, as members of parliament. the commission is not prepared to accept this. good luck to your country malta as a sign of responsibility that even a small country can achieve a lot!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are in agreement, mr berès, that we want to increase transparency. we have worked together in the taxe and panama committees to combat money laundering and tax evasion. but now we have this discussion about competitiveness, and companies - in france and in germany - are very afraid. do you not agree with me that the commission should give a binding answer to this question of competitiveness? because we want to level the playing field, of course.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. vice-president dombrovskis has just mentioned the figure again: european public budgets and therefore all of us lose between 50 and 70 billion euros every year through tax avoidance. what an incredible sum! what could not be financed with this money, for example, for good education, good work or for sustainable public investments! the luxleaks and panama papers scandals and revelations have once again made it clear to us that some companies are the world leaders in innovative tax-saving schemes and that they have no social conscience. this has to end once and for all! the big companies must disclose where they make their profits and how much income tax they have to pay in which country. it's as easy to understand as the one-off. the fight against tax avoidance starts with transparency, which is why we need public country-specific reporting. it is a cost-effective means of giving tax authorities, journalists or citizens the means to hold multinational companies that make secret tax deals to account. finally, a word on the question of the safeguard clause for the unlimited exemption from reporting. i wonder how this is to be justified to the taxpayers, because it is precisely this that is promoting the practices of tax avoidance described. we are here for a time limit and it would therefore be very important for amendments nos 84 and 85 to be adopted today.
i have to say, madam president, corporations should report publicly on profits and taxes paid, country by country, as banks and the commodities sector do. apple's profit in 2014 was 0.005% 50 euros for every million. so it is not a matter of competitive disadvantage, but of finally ensuring fair conditions for the mediumsized enterprises or the people up there who work hard for every penny. however, the threshold of eur 750 million in turnover is set by 85% of the companies, according to the oecd. the exception for commercially sensitive information is stretchable like chewing gum, indefinite in time and no longer provides for retroactive disclosure in the event of a change of company headquarters. we must maintain global disclosure, otherwise we fall behind countries like vietnam. my group will therefore not be involved in approving a draft which is going to take its knee before apple, google and co. and which will allow new tax schemes to be created by this derogation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that what has been agreed in the oecd action plan against the reduction of tax bases and the crossborder shifting of profits is a good basis for ensuring fair tax competition not only in the european union but far beyond. the oecd action plan on the environment and climate action plan, which was adopted in december 2012, sets out the following principles for the development of the oecd's environmental policy: companies with a turnover of more than eur 750 million are required to provide the tax authorities with an overview of the global distribution of income and taxes. the tax authorities are then obliged to exchange this information, and we have already implemented this obligation in eu law. so to tell you that we have to do something about it, we have implemented the oecd! now it's about going beyond that. the obligation to publish country-specific tax information was never the basis at oecd level. we must be aware that this is also sensitive business information and we must be aware that the european union will be weakened at international level if we always go beyond what we have agreed internationally. we should work with the international bodies to find further solutions and not take the lead. that is why i say quite clearly: those who today reach out to do more are harming our own economy, harming our companies and are not helping to bring about more tax justice.
i have to say, madam president, it is quite interesting to hear this morning from the house: on the one hand we have colleagues like mr ferber here who say that for reasons of competition we must be careful not to impose too many obligations on companies. we have mr de masi who says that all the exceptions we have now introduced to avoid public country-by-country reporting are really just a matter of wishing to be seen and helping multinational companies to continue to practice their tax tricks. i think the truth lies somewhere in between. the truth is that there may, of course, be legitimate interests which need to be protected and which may prevent full disclosure if industry in europe is to be protected. but it cannot be left to the companies and the member states to decide for ever what is not to be disclosed to the public. we must not forget what we have discovered in the luxleaks, what we have seen in the panama papers: it is often the member states of the european union that help to make state-organized tax dumping a business model for states! do we want to allow the old partners - multinational companies and these member states on the other hand - to interact again without restriction? this can't be happening! i would appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept a line which says: yes, we will meet such specific requirements for protection of competition in individual cases, but not indefinitely, for ever. there must be a point where the public is informed and the european commission, the public and all of us can check whether there were indeed competitive reasons or whether we have an interaction between unfairly acting partners, as we have seen in the past.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for years we in the european parliament have been campaigning for greater tax fairness in corporate taxation, knowing full well that tax legislation is a matter for the member states. but it is clear that small and mediumsized enterprises pay their taxes in the countries where the value is created, while the large multinational companies throughout europe can happily and happily optimise their taxes. we have set up the taxe committee, the panama papers committee, and we have seen through the work of colleagues in these two committees how tax avoidance works. if you want to prevent tax evasion, you have to act. i therefore believe that the proposal put forward by the commission is a sensible proposal. but at the same time - and many colleagues have pointed this out - there are of course international rules of the game, the beps action plan, which we have already implemented here in parliament. i think it is really important, even in times like these, when competition is fierce, internationally, that we keep an eye on competitiveness for our companies as well. that means transparency, yes, but everything in moderation. i therefore ask my colleagues to vote for the threshold of 750 million euros, not to go beyond it, even in the vote this afternoon. and i also believe that this safeguard clause, which has been proposed, which has been tabled, is a sensible piece of legislation. so i ask for your support in that respect too.
mr gollnisch, i'm not going to let you go. i can inform you that we are waiting for the official communication from the french government authorities and then we will proceed as normal. this means that the names will be passed on to the legal affairs committee and the examination will then be carried out, as is customary in our parliament. there's no reason to do it any differently than we normally do.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the explanations of vote are closed.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! these days are the days of the big names in the european parliament. we thought simon veils today, and helmut kohls here on saturday. we could also remember the life achievements of helmut schmidt, willy brandt and giscard d'estaing, all of whom have made their mark on europe. i wonder what the message of these name-calling is these days. in the face of the challenges of brexit, international globalisation, climate change, what would your message be? i am particularly struck by a phrase from these works, a very brief one: have courage, have courage, live in the present, not in the past, if you want to defend europe! and tell people that only europe can protect them and lead them on the way to a better future. but then i ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, why is this so difficult? why can we not adopt a common document guaranteeing every worker the right to decent work, to protection, to social protection in employment, but also in private life? why can't we tell the children of europe that you don't have to grow up in poverty? and that, madam field member, is the difference: we share your view that people want to live their freedom, that they want to shape their own lives. but we also think that they do it all the better when they don't have to be afraid of the everyday, don't have to be afraid of the adversities of everyday. so why can we not produce a joint paper, offering the commission a guideline for this? that's my appeal! i do not understand it, i would like the other groups to be up to date and help us to enforce this.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i want to talk about health. it is a subject which, according to the treaties, should be dealt with by the european union, at least in certain areas, and yet we have not received a single legislative proposal since the juncker-timmermann commission took office, on which we are working here in the plenary. there are proposals still coming from the old commission, but nothing new. it's not like we don't have chores. we are being urged by patient organizations, by industry, that we need to do something about health technology impact assessment. we need incentives, very concrete incentives - not just in an action plan, but in legislation - to fight antibiotic resistance, to bring new innovative medicines to market. i believe that parliament has made proposals over and over again in recent years, including in the epp resolution with other groups. i ask the commission to take this seriously and not just to make plans but also to make concrete legislative proposals. we do not want to regulate everything, but in certain areas it is necessary. if you ask citizens on their birthdays or at new year's, what is your biggest wish? and then it doesn't come -- stable institutions, economic growth or anything like that -- but then it comes health. that is why we must also bear our share of responsibility in this area.
the commission has already done so. it is quite clear that next year will be a very crucial one, and that is where it comes down to doing the important things better and perhaps making the less important things less important. if you look at the catalogue of the important, of course, that includes the fair design of globalization. and you've, i think, put out a very good paper on this, but you have to put that into practice. i think there are five elements that are crucial to this. for example, people want to know where their textiles come from, and that there is no social and environmental dumping involved. so a corporate duty of care must be on the table. we also want to ensure that workers' rights can be sued if they are not respected. that is why we need a proposal for binding rules on workers' rights in international treaties. we want to make sure that the international governance system is preserved, that we can actively move forward on a truly international rules-based basis. we must ensure that we get much more transparency in our international negotiations so that people can have more confidence in the european union's ability to do things. we also need to ensure - and this is what your paper suggests - that a link is made between the external and internal dimensions of globalisation. it cannot be that only a few benefit from globalization. we need to make sure that everyone benefits from that, that internal equality and justice is established in the same way.
the rapporteur, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, is mr glinne. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the eu's global strategy was adopted about a year ago. it is the beginning of an unprecedented expansion of european military structures. the key interests are an open and fair economic system and access to resources. in order to be literally prepared for this in the future, the eu global strategy calls for the building of cutting-edge military capabilities, and this is what is now being undertaken in a massive way. despite constant claims to the contrary, the vast majority of the population does not want this militarization. what people want is a peaceful, democratic and social european union today more than ever. what do you do? quite the opposite! some examples: the so-called permanent structured cooperation is designed to put important parts of eu foreign and security policy in the hands of a few states. how might this affect the eu-skepticism already present in many countries? the eu's peace project aims to ensure that no country ever again dominates europe. yes, how much more do you want to deny reality? the big and rich countries - germany in particular - are increasingly telling the others where to go economically and militarily. this is bad, this is dangerous. another example: the new eu headquarters has been in place since june. it is supposed to simplify and accelerate future military operations. but that is not what the people want. in germany, for example, over 80% of the population want less, not more, military action. yes, for many, all the western military interventions of recent years are part of the problem, not the solution. you too, mrs mogherini, always say that people want security, they want security from the eu. well, who doesn't want security? but more guns and more military don't make us safer. this is mainly about access to raw materials. and by the way, security means social security for the majority of people, and unfortunately the eu has little to offer on this, especially for the people of southern europe. so, in view of the social imbalances, most people do not want to spend more money on armaments - money that is much more urgently needed elsewhere. no, it will go in the other direction. for the first time, the next eu budget will set up a defence budget called the defence fund totalling €38.5 billion, despite the fact that the eu treaties forbid spending on military policy from the eu budget. it's in the paragraph on the gsp. but the motto 'what does not fit, is made fit' is to be circumvented, a different chapter is simply taken for the armaments funds. it is no longer in the chapter on the csdp, but is repositioned in the promotion of competition. so you can really lose faith in the law. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. you're gonna have to do something about it. let us finally act accordingly and abandon the war path on which the eu is currently moving.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, work to strengthen the european union in the security and defence field started with the presentation of the global strategy in the council exactly one year ago. by the way, this is why, for the first time in two and a half years, i am sitting on this side of the hemicycle because it is clear in our treaties and in the work that we have done that the work on eu security and defence lies in the hands of the council competences. last year we started on strong, unanimous – still at 28 – and sustained work to respond to the need for security of our citizens. let me say first of all that security and a european approach to security is a priority for all european citizens. no matter in which country – east, west, north, south – and no matter what kind of political background our citizens have, european defence and security is mentioned as a top priority in all the eurobarometer surveys that have been conducted in the last year or so. second, we realise that we have to make full use of the instruments that the lisbon treaty gives to the european union. this is an issue on which parliament has always been very strong, demanding the full use of all the instruments we have – i remember very well that in the hearing i had in the committee on foreign affairs at the beginning of my mandate, this was a point that was very strongly made – so it is not something that was started as a reaction to some external factors, or semi—external factors like the british referendum, but there were some accelerating elements or, i would say, factors that intensified the political will to make security and defence in the european union one of the fields where the council wants to relaunch the european union integration process. this is why in rome, during the celebrations for the 60th anniversary of our treaty, this field was clearly indicated as one of the priority fields for the relaunch of the european union. clearly not the only one, and here comes the picture in which we do our work on security and defence, because i want to clarify, first, that our work is not leading to a militarisation of the european union. this is not leading to a european union army. if there is anyone in the world that knows the power of soft power, the need to combine different instruments, the need to have an integrated approach in responding to crises and conflicts, in using all different tools from the diplomatic to the humanitarian, development, economic and cultural, it is the european union. there is a genuine european way to security and defence. it is made of civilian and military means together, hard and soft power together, cooperation with our partners, and also strategic autonomy. let me say that, in particular in times such as these, if we want to be able and free to do security in our own european way, we need to strengthen our own capabilities and capacity to act also as a security provider for our citizens, and also for our partners in the world. the european union not only is, but will stay, the most relevant donor of humanitarian and development aid. that is going to remain. we are going to stay the main pillar of the multilateral system based on the un agencies and un values and principles, as well as on the approach that preventing a conflict is always better than dealing with it militarily. we know very well that there is no single crisis or threat in the world that can be dealt with through a purely military approach. this is the european way to security and i want there to be no doubt about the fact that this approach is not changing. but, at the same time, we can – and we must – do better and more efficiently on defence and security in the narrow sense of the word. i often say that security for us is also development cooperation, climate change action, investment in peacekeeping, and so on. having said that, we also have a responsibility to use the instruments we have when it comes to security and defence in the narrow sense. as i said, this work has been taken forward in the follow-up to the eu global strategy since last summer. it includes the work done by the commission – on which jyrki katainen and elżbieta bieńkowska will share more details with you – and includes work that has been taken forward in full cooperation with nato in line with the joint declaration signed at the nato warsaw summit last july. i also want to be very clear on this: the work we are doing to strengthen european defence is also a matter of strengthening nato and is beneficial for both. last week i reported with jens stoltenberg on the 42 joint actions that the european union and nato have taken together as organisations different in nature but both contributing to european security. let me also recall that the decision on defence budgets – spending more on defence – is not a matter for the european union institutions but for national governments and national parliaments. so a debate about how much we should spend is not for here. this is a national competence. the whole two—percent debate is for member states that are also allied in nato. it is not for the european union to tackle this. but, regardless of how much member states decide to spend, what the european union can – and must – do is help them spend better and more efficiently, which means spending together. i always quote two numbers: europeans invest in defence 50% of what americans do, but the output of european investments in defence is 15%. so there is an investment gap. this is not for us to tackle. it is a national sovereign choice, but the output gap – how efficient the investment is in output – is something the european union can help with. so it is not about militarising, but about rationalising. it is about the efficiency of the investments, namely how we can use our resources with economies of scale – that is the point – and also how we can use the instruments for acting together as a union in the world. i will mention a few concrete steps that either have already been taken or are ongoing with decisions already taken in the council – either the foreign affairs council or the european council recently – with the support of the eeas and the european defence agency. you often think that i have two hats, but i actually have three hats because i also have the european defence agency and, in this case, the agency is proving its added value. first, we will enhance the coordination of national defence plans through the new coordinated annual review on defence. a trial run of the review will already be carried out this autumn. second, we will launch an inclusive and ambitious permanent structure cooperation (pesco). this is based on more binding commitments between member states to jointly develop and deploy military capabilities. a few weeks ago the european council agreed that a common list of criteria and binding commitments will be drawn up within three months. this should pave the way for notifications to the council to start the formal process of establishing a permanent structure cooperation and i am confident that this process can be done before the december european council if member states are coherent with their commitment to proceed in this way. third, the commission – and here i will not enter into the work that has been done with jyrki katainen and elżbieta bieńkowska – has set up proposals for a european defence fund with, by the way, excellent interinstitutional cooperation and coordination that i think is also exemplary for other fields of action. i think that will continue in the months to come. the ideal would be to have pesco projects financed by the european defence fund. fourth, work has been launched to make the battlegroups – launched and established exactly ten years ago – fully deployed. we have never deployed them and this will be addressed during the review of the athena mechanism in the second half of this year. fifth, we have established the first ever command centre in brussels for the operational planning and conduct of military training and advisory missions. this capability is already providing support and guidance to our training missions in mali, somalia and the central african republic and is working closely with our civilian command centre to strengthen the synergies between our missions. sixth, and finally, we are also working to improve our civilian crisis management to make it more responsive and make sure it has all the capabilities it needs. all six of these measures have either already been taken or are underway with a speed that is quite remarkable – a few months of work – and a unity – all these decisions were taken unanimously at 28 in the council – and with a great sense of unity and responsibility. let me add that the work on the future of european defence should not make us underestimate the current work of european defence. we have today men and women in eu uniforms serving under the eu flag, already contributing to the security of our citizens and our own region. just last month, a portuguese surgeon who served in our training mission in mali was killed in the terrorist attack in bamako. we should honour the men and women that are serving peace under the eu flag. our eu men and women are supporting our african partners in their work for peace and security in extremely challenging environments. our training missions are supporting the local security forces as they fight against terrorism or against criminal networks. this is the european way. we are a cooperative power and a multilateral power, always believing in an integrated approach, always believing in prevention. we are a force for peace and human development. this is how and what we are, and this is how and what we will continue to be, with more instruments to serve this way of working on security. we are – even more so – a security provider for our citizens and for our partners and this is how we use our military: in the service of peace, in the service of the un charter, and in the service of multilateralism. developing eu strategic autonomy to do so is even more important today than it was in all the previous decades. a stronger european union in the field of security and defence is good for europeans and good for the rest of the world. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it is a pleasure to be here to discuss the future of european defence and security. we have had excellent team work in the commission and with the high representative/vice-president, so the member states and the commission have worked together in order to identify possible tools to deploy for defending our values. this discussion here in the european parliament is as important, because we have to identify the strong political will, in which direction, and how deep we want to go in order to protect our values. actually the rapporteur said rightly that a peaceful, democratic eu is our peoples’ core value. these are not only core values here in europe, but they are the same values that we represent outside europe, and that is why we need the capability to defend our core values both inside europe and outside europe. and this is the reason we are talking about the future of security and defence today. the high representative/vice president already mentioned a few concrete political issues, like finding solutions to pad up group financing. this would be a significant improvement in our capability to defend our values. also, a nato-eu declaration is not only a political declaration, but also a very concrete action plan on how the two organisations can work together in order to get better output, as the high representative/vice-president mentioned. i encourage member states and the european parliament to be active in developing deeper security and defence cooperation. pesco offers an excellent opportunity for this, and, generally speaking, our treaties allow the member states to do basically whatever they want. one important and necessary opportunity would be to create a european cyber and hybrid defence capability, but everything depends on the political will – the political will of this house, and the political will of the member states. let us be clear: it is not the commission’s power trap. it is a matter of timing and the level of ambition on the member states’ side. equally important, nato will remain a provider of security in europe that a stronger europe will reinforce. our proposals are complementary to nato. two weeks ago, the commission adopted its reflection paper on the future of european defence, a communication on the european defence fund and a proposal for a european defence industrial development programme. with the reflection paper, we have launched a debate on what role the eu will have in the future in this very important area. we have proposed three scenarios, which range from a security and defence cooperation scenario, under which member states would still decide on the need for security and defence cooperation on a voluntary and case-by-case basis, to a much more ambitious common defence and security scenario, which foresees the progressive framing of a common union defence policy, leading to common defence. while the three scenarios differ in the level of ambition, they all present a step in the same direction: strengthening european defence. now we need an honest debate on the kind of future we see for europe in defence policy. therefore, the debate today in the european parliament is very welcome. when looking at the economic side of defence cooperation, we do everything 28 times – or, in the future, 27 times – so the problem is that we duplicate everything so many times that the application problem with nato is not a relevant problem, because nobody wants to do it. duplication also has a price tag. the lack of cooperation in defence and security between member states is estimated to cost annually between eur 25 billion to eur 100 billion. this is not an efficient way to use our resources. how should such a large amount of money be used? we must do it efficiently to ensure the best security the taxpayers deserve. for this reason, we have created the european defence fund, which has three different angles. the first angle is defence research funding. research organisations can apply together for the funding of collaborative research projects from the eu budget. we want to change the way defence research is done in europe, pulling together both human and material resources. we have allocated this year eur 25 million, and with your support we will allocate next year eur 40 million and eur 25 million in 2019 – altogether eur 90 million in three years. the second angle is support for joint development of capabilities, using the eu budget to incentivise joint development of prototypes. to qualify for support under the european defence industrial development programme, there must be at least three companies from a minimum of two countries which can apply to build joint prototypes, for example in drone or satellite projects. for 2019-2020 we have re-allocated resources from the eu budget worth eur 500 million for these purposes. our proposal is that for the next multiannual financial framework (mff) period the eu budget funding will be eur one billion per year. with the support of member states co—financing the programme, we could generate a total investment of eur five billion per year. this will be a game changer in terms of strengthening defence research and industrial capabilities, and it makes our public spending more effective. importantly, the fund is not only for big countries and big projects, but also for small countries and for smaller companies in the defence value chain. we want to make sure that everybody can participate. finally, the defence fund is meant to help member states to do joint acquisitions of capabilities. instead of buying capability separately, member states could do it jointly using different types of financial models, and these can range from pooling to debt financing and can help overcome challenges of different budget cycles and reduce the cost for individual member states. honourable members, this is one of the biggest challenges for our future. we have to make sure that we can protect our values inside europe, but also externally.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the epp group expressly welcomes the new defence package and i would like to thank vice-president katainen, commissioner bieńkowska and mrs mogherini - with at least three different hats they wear in this context - very warmly. we support this package because it provides the right incentives to support the defence efforts of the member states with the procedures we know in the eu and with eu budgets. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. that is why the keywords we are hearing today in this debate are the keywords we have been calling for in parliament for years, at least since the beginning of this parliamentary term, but also since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i would like to thank you very much for the defence action plan, the reflection paper, the defence fund and also the european defence industry support programme which has been mentioned here. these are the measures which, if we do it right, will make us finally move forward on this issue and thus also make us more attractive partners for our american partners in the field of defence.
madam president, this is indeed a point of order. mr korwin-mikke accused the bundestag of fascism. i think you should check the protocol, the minutes, and you should censor him for that remark.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me deal with two rumors that have been circulating. nowhere, my dear colleague, in these papers is there anything about 2%. don't spread such rumors! that's a very different discussion between different partners. secondly, it is not a question of increasing military operations over civilian ones. we're not suddenly drunk on guns! the aim is to provide more effective, if necessary military, support for civilian, peacekeeping and peace-keeping operations. that is the main point: more efficiency and more modern equipment, not more military equipment. and let me say that for us social democrats, the direction is right, and that is why we support you. but that does not mean that we have nothing to discuss, for example, on the question of what rights this parliament actually has, other than to say to you: 'you have done well.' and secondly, where does the money for the fund come from? you know, it's a hobby of mine, whoever orders more, has to pay more. this is also true of the european parliament.
i have to say, madam president, mr danjean was right, madam president. our citizens want europe to do more for defence. i do not have time to list what i think is right about this defence package. mr tannock has mentioned a number of things. but i want to make a few criticisms. first, we don't have a lack of investment, we have a huge crater of inefficiency. we're not just doubling, we're tripling and quadrupling, and it doesn't make sense! the first would be to apply the 2009 procurement directive consistently before spending any more money. secondly, at a time when mr oettinger is debating whether we are short 12 or 20 billion in the european budget, it is pointless to say that we are now spending extra money on defence from virtually every fund that can be found! thirdly, in the third scenario, to conceive of the eu as a kind of second nato is completely absurd. second nato without the united states would mean either giving in to a dangerous self-deception with the idea of strategic autonomy or having to resort to the european atomic bomb. and fourthly, i find it absolutely intolerable that the idea of the governance of this expenditure includes the idea that industry should be allowed to be self-sufficient because it should be able to decide what money is spent on armaments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the spd has long been a supporter of the pooling and sharing approach. the ultimate objective must be to europeanise national defence capabilities in order to use the defence budget more efficiently and save costs. i think that europeanization of arms policy is useful because it helps the nato member states of the eu to move away from the absurd 2% target of nato. we must instead focus on improving the defence capabilities that we all need. the commission proposal provides for several billion euros from the eu budget to be allocated to arms research, development and procurement. however, the rights to the technologies and products thus financed are not transferred to the european union. this can't be happening! contrary to the wording of the commission's proposal, i am calling for a real co-determination of the eu and in particular of the european parliament in the export of arms and ammunition financed with eu funds. in addition, the commission should supplement the defence plan with a programme for the conversion of defence industries into civilian industries if we are to make a change here.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this discussion. as you have probably observed during the last few months, defence policy has become very high on the political agenda, and such discussions are very much needed and welcomed. i am sure that defence will be a cornerstone of the future of europe. in the commission, we made very decisive and concrete steps towards a union that is secure and protects, as federica mogherini mentioned before: this is very high on our citizens’ agenda. citizens want a europe that protects and that is secure. we moved decisively with the defence package. of course, the reflection paper launched a much wider and forward-looking debate, and the european defence fund encourages member states to cooperate on defence research, development and acquisitions. it was never clearer that europe must become a security provider and to ensure progressively its own security, because currently no member state is strong enough to meet on their own the evolving threats and challenges we are facing. so this is definitely – and i want to underline this – not about militarisation. this is definitely not about grabbing any power from the member states. this is about securing and ensuring europe’s strategic autonomy, and for this we need a very competitive european defence industrial base, a european defence industrial sector, and with the european defence fund this is what we aim to achieve. this is the industrial pillar of our action; this is the one we are moving together quite fast. the defence fund will support the whole capability development life cycle, as we mentioned before – as jyrki katainen mentioned – from research through prototype development to joint procurement and acquisition, which is very important for us. the commission is for the first time making all its efforts, using all its tools – including the eu budget – to support and promote stronger defence cooperation, especially on the industrial front. this is important, both from a strategic perspective and from an economic perspective. a few more details: a single market in defence is not in contradiction with the european defence fund. on the contrary, with the european defence fund we want to open the defence supply chain cross-border. there is a very high need to build trust at the level of industrial cooperation, and through the edf i hope – and i am sure – we will do that. i also want to underline the importance of the procurement and transfer directive, and i want to commit to doing my best to execute both of them. on one more thing – maybe a little too detailed, but i think it is important to answer the question – we have taken the specificities of defence in building the european defence industrial plan. we are fully aware of those specificities. that is why, as i said, it is not about grabbing power. the member states will stay in the lead; they will decide on the priorities, on the capabilities, and finally on the projects, so this is not the role of the european commission. everything will be owned by the member states, and the member states only. thank you very much for your cooperation; i am looking forward to our future discussions, and i also count on your support during our work on the adoption of the whole plan.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me start by picking up on something that some of you mentioned during the debate. the european union is not a military alliance. it is not meant to become a military alliance, and that is why the work we are doing, in parallel to strengthen european defence and to strengthen eu-nato cooperation, is working so well. i do not know where one of the speakers got the information that nato and the nato secretary-general are not supportive of this process because the secretary-general has repeatedly, publicly and privately, stressed the fact that strengthening european defence also strengthens the transatlantic alliance. i am ready and, as always, willing to discuss different political views, but at least starting from the facts and the actual objectives that we have in reality. let me clarify this too: there is a cost for the european union not working together on defence, and what the commission is doing in relation to the industrial base is a clear demonstration of that. the fragmentation of investment has a cost for the budget – for the taxpayers’ money that we often refer to. it is not the case that we are investing more on defence, because you might have noticed that member states – as i see every day in dealing with defence ministers, prime ministers and foreign ministers –have their own national defence budgets. they have their own investments; they have their own capabilities. we are not working to increase that. we are working to make that spending and investment more efficient by making investments together among member states, with the support of all the eu institutions. also, member states own one single set of forces and they are perfectly capable of deciding whether to use their forces in eu missions and operations, in un missions, in nato missions or in their own bilateral or multilateral initiatives. investing in strengthening cooperation among member states on defence makes it possible for member states, which in some cases are also nato allies (there are five member states that are not nato allies), free to make their own strategic choices. we are not building a european army. i understand that, for political reasons, or propaganda reasons, some of you want to continue to refer to this, but this is not the reality of the facts. we do have headquarters of our military and civilian missions and operations and, by the way, i would like to remind our friends in the uk that one of our headquarters is currently in the uk. it is the headquarters of the european union’s operation atalanta. after the uk leaves we will probably have to move the headquarters somewhere else. but we do have eu mission and operation headquarters currently working to support ongoing eu operations and missions. what is the reality here? it is that we need to make the system of command and planning of the existing operations and missions more effective because having a fragmented system of headquarters – as anyone who deals with military issues a little bit knows and understands – is not necessarily the most effective way of managing a military operation. so this is not about building a big headquarters. it is not about creating a headquarters of the same kind as the supreme headquarters allied powers europe (shape): it is about rationalising the existing headquarters that we have spread around everywhere, including in the uk. by the way, i would like to stress that all the decisions we have taken so far, the ones that have been already implemented and the ones that have yet to be implemented but are on the way, have been decided unanimously by all the 28 member states, with the uk fully involved, sitting at the table of the council that i chair and fully participating in the decision making. and i am very happy about that. some of you mentioned, i think, that this can be one of the fields in which future cooperation with the future third-party uk might be explored. another point: what are our militaries doing? i would like to clarify this because our militaries are not making war. our militaries are supporting peace. this is the european union way to security, and i would like us to be very clear about that, because it is also a way of honouring our men and women serving under the eu flag. they are there for us. just as national parliaments are responsible for the national participation of men and women in uniform in military missions or civilian operations, we as european institutions have the responsibility to recognise and honour the work that men and women in uniform are doing serving the eu around the world. i believe we need a reality check here. our militaries are saving people in the mediterranean sea. our militaries are training and supporting african security forces in trying to implement agreements or carrying out peacekeeping. this is the kind of work that our eu militaries are doing. i would ask some of the honourable members, please, to refer to the reality of the facts and not to ideas they want to use for a political purpose, because this is where the roots of so many european problems lie. we have to start from the reality of the work we are doing. last, but not least, two small points. one of you referred, and rightly so, to the need for all our work on defence to start from the security needs we have assessed. that is perfectly correct: it is exactly what we are doing. that is why the sequence of our work began with an assessment of the security environment. that was done last year. then came the presentation of the global strategy identifying the strategic priorities for our foreign policy and security policy, including in the defence sector. only after having shared a common level of ambition, which was achieved in november, are we now strengthening our approach to capabilities and the industrial base. so the sequence is clearly this: we start from the security needs and then we develop the instruments we need to fulfil this level of ambition. a last point on financial resources. if we, the commission, council and parliament, set a target for our level of ambition, a target for what we want to do on security and defence at european union level, then – and i see commissioner oettinger here in the room, so it is an appropriate time to say this – we also have to define how we finance the level of ambition we set ourselves. this will be part of a necessary further discussion in the future.
in writing. i support the new defence package presented by the commission. we must implement the objectives of our common foreign and security policy that have already been agreed. the proposed measures will help to increase the efficiency of each member state's respective spending and to strengthen the eu's role as a strategic player in the world's foreign and security policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the reflection paper on eu finances is going in the wrong direction in its prioritisation. the first priority for you is the internal market, security and defence policy. in contrast, solidarity is seen as accepting cuts in four out of five scenarios. a mistake, as i see it. cohesion policy can stabilise regions in the long term and is therefore a foundation for a competitive europe. citizens expect living conditions to be equalised and improved, and they expect this to take precedence over competitive ideologies that only benefit internationally successful companies. in june this parliament voted in favour of a cohesion policy without straitjacket and without the priority of financial instruments, which further erode democratic control of public services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so today we are talking about the commission's discussion paper on the future of eu finances, i.e. tax money. it is preceded by a quote from jean-claude juncker: 'we need a budget to carry out our plans. the budget is therefore a means to achieve our political objectives. the eu has now risen above the member states and wants to abolish them. the aim is to replace sovereign nation states with a central or federal state a superstate . if the budgetary resources are measured by the political objectives, then i say: not a cent for this european union, because the dissolution of the nation states is not our aim. but if the aim is to strengthen the europe of the home countries and to strengthen the home countries, then i am happy to support the budget. i think 15 billion is probably enough instead of 150 billion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'd like to take a minute to talk about my home country, germany. in the negotiations on the medium-term financial framework, a previous federal government insisted that the contribution from national budgets be limited to one per cent of gross national income. today we see that what was considered a success in germany at the time is causing problems for the eu. the european budget is underfunded, and in the face of the new additional challenges - to mention just the fight against the causes of migration and the improvement of border management - this is fatal. now, something interesting is happening: members of the current government are saying that we should definitely let the eu cost us more. because in germany two things are taking hold. firstly, germany is only going to be good if our neighbours are also going to be good. and secondly, if you look at the financial flows, you will see that the money that goes to the eu countries through the structural funds, for example, goes back to the federal republic as purchases or as orders. let us therefore have a courageous debate on how this should continue, what the eu should be able to do in the future and how the growing demands can be financed. i am in favour of ending underfinancing, ending rebates, increasing the gnp own resources again and creating new own resources.
the commission has already done so. your reflection paper covers a wide range of issues in cohesion policy. but when i look at the various scenarios you are preparing, cohesion policy does not seem to be sufficiently taken into account. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial instruments for the period 2007-13 is a good one. we cannot play defense policy and cohesion policy against each other. cohesion policy must remain open to all regions. the added value is obvious. all citizens must feel that the european union is concerned about their problems and that it is supporting them. yes, we need reform. we need simplification. we need to communicate better about what we've accomplished. we need more flexibility. we need reforms, but we do not need cuts in cohesion policy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. even if we continue to try, there will not be an infinite amount of money, regardless of whether the governments are black, red, green or whatever they may be. we will therefore have to consider - in the light of the five scenarios presented - which areas of the tasks need to be reconsidered and reviewed. where have we not been as successful as we had hoped, and where do we not want to be and should not be? where do we need to change, where do we need to be more innovative? and i believe that innovation and especially science and progress is one of the most important areas to create perspectives for young people, that we can't just hold on to everything and think that we can add something extra to it. and if you read through the five scenarios, i read them as potentially including new tasks, and for which there will be additional funding because they are very concrete new tasks. the proportion of old tasks will then be lower, partly because the portfolio as a whole has a larger scope of tasks. i hope that we will simply be able to tackle these tasks openly and concretely, and thereby prove that the european union is spending the money wisely and can also manage it wisely.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if you have listened to the debate, you have the impression that a lot of reflection papers have been produced. i would like to mention the gift of selection which many of my colleagues have. i believe that the reflection paper is more than reflection, there are clear paths ahead. and it would of course be important for you, commissioner, to say which way you want to go. we must have a say in agricultural policy - contrary to the 'status quo' we have heard today - but we must also have a say in the structural funds. simplification, better results, value for money - that is the way we have to go, especially because we are accountable to the taxpayer. i believe that this paper, if it is implemented, will contain many interesting elements, starting with the cap on farms for large farms, so that we can at the same time achieve budgetary policy objectives for new priorities, but also make existing policies better. i think we have a great opportunity to make the policies we have so far better. and that's what we should do, even if we have less money to do it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank our colleague, mr siegfried mureşan, for his report. the ecr group has both light and shadow in this report. we are pleased that some of the issues are rightly very prominent here, for example the funding for the migration crisis. it's very existential for us as a whole. at the same time, we are missing a link to real sustainable policies, because spending money alone will not solve the problems. we are also a little unhappy about certain things, such as the demand for more own resources for the eu. we don't think that's the right way to go. i would like to conclude with a positive outlook. i am very pleased that you are here today, mr oettinger, on behalf of the commission, because i also hope that in view of the number of colleagues present you will not scold us as much as your commission president might have done.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as the permanent rapporteur of the committee on budgets for the agencies, i should like to make a statement tonight. the current medium-term financial framework has decided to reduce staff by 5% in the institutions and thus also in the decentralised agencies. the 2018 budget is the one in which this operation is to be completed, and that will be the case for the agencies. it is important for me to emphasise at this point that many agencies have done much more, because they had to create, through the so-called redeployment pool, part of the jobs that have become unavoidable in selected agencies - think of the growth of staff at frontex. so let me be clear: the 2018 budget is the last one in which staff will be cut in the agencies. i believe some of them have reached a state that can be called sclerotic. but the council has a chance, ladies and gentlemen, to demonstrate its willingness to save elsewhere. the eba, the european banking authority, is being moved out of the uk and it would be very sensible from an economic point of view to merge it with the other agencies, either the one in france or the one in frankfurt. my feeling is, that's not gonna happen.
mr president, madam high representative, dear elena, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we were together in havana a year ago and we saw the good work our eu delegation is doing. now there is an agreement that is good, necessary and overdue. we can now achieve more in the field of human rights. but trump and the us administration are threatening to roll back the developing relationship. we must therefore work together to ensure that this us embargo is not tightened again and that it does not have an impact on the eu. it is not possible for the us to impose fines on european companies or european banks because the us is torpedoing trade and investment between cuba and the eu. the european companies and our banks concerned must be better protected to ensure the sustainable development of cuba.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we had the funeral for helmut kohl here on saturday. i think it has become clear how the depth and diversity of european culture is expressed as a supporting element. culture, in its diversity and commonality, is a crucial factor in the attractiveness of europe. ortega y gasset once said: 'four fifths of the cultures of the european countries are the same, one fifth is different. today we see this not as a contradiction but as a common asset. it is through this path and the experiences we have had that this europe has been brought together. this could be an example for other parts of the world. this europe, in which we overcome borders, in which we understand culture not as a contradiction but as a common wealth, can also be a message to other parts of the world, in order to contribute in this way as a soft power, to build peace and at the same time to be advertising for us in the most sober sense. i think that with cultural diplomacy, dear mrs mogherini, we can also use this as one of the tools in your global strategy. i think that we can do something here, as in the case of the human rights policy of the united nations, the un charter of human rights. we can include those who have overcome this barrier in our conversations. we should ask the commission to include these elements more in contracts, in order to create such links. but i think we should also use the interests of our member states. i am fully aware that culture is a national responsibility and that under the treaty we have only a supporting role. that's another way to build it. we do not want to overcome the work of the nation states in safeguarding their cultural identity, but we should make clear to the outside what we said in the draft european constitutional treaty: unity in diversity. it is therefore in the interests of the member states to play a part in this, to use it as a common instrument and at the same time to make an impact in the world. i think it is important that this should be done, of course, with due respect for subsidiarity. but i can imagine that we could also, for example, madam representative, in the framework of the delegations we have abroad, hold exhibitions, that particularly smaller countries could present their culture there, which they cannot do on their own in such countries. it's a small beginning: exhibitions. estonia, as the country holding the presidency of the council, is exhibiting at the premises of the delegation of the european union abroad. the big countries are all proudly doing it alone. but to give small countries such an approach here seems to me to be a wonderful opportunity to represent the common and the different. i think that for this reason, also in cooperation with international organisations, and also under the commitments of the unesco convention and cultural diversity, we have here an interesting instrument with which we can also make policy in the interest of europe and the member states.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, we will stick to two seconds because we see eye-to-eye on this. it is only to say we need to continue this wonderful interinstitutional cooperation. we count on continuing to work with all committees and the entire parliament now to move forward in this fight.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i see that this debate, both yours, mrs mogherini, and that of the other participants, has made it clear that there is a high degree of agreement and will, that we can attach some importance to consensus and that it is an important starting point for making progress in these areas. i think that in these general approaches that we've talked about, as well as in the very practical things that we've talked about here -- with the preservation of cultural heritage, when we see the situation with isis in iraq and syria, the way cultural heritage is being destroyed -- we've had a greater awareness that these people are committing a crime against our common wealth. then i think this is also an important message that we are committed to the identity of all, not only when it comes to our own culture, and that this can have the character of unification. i would be glad if we could expand this further if we have to go step by step. we are not going to achieve all this at once, i am well aware of that. these are new fields which can be developed, and which are necessary and effective, if we go step by step to involve the cultural scene in this way, to involve people who live out of culture, and thus bring this europe into the world and make our contribution to the world.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the absence of an arab king from the g20 summit has made headlines, and months of un work has been drowned in media blackout. the first one is definitely better for the photos. only the second leads to the solutions we need to meet our common challenges, to live together in peace and mutual balance. the sdgs, the paris agreement, efforts to create a regulatory framework for the restructuring of public debt or for fair and regulated trade in global value chains or, more generally, the further legalisation of our international relations - all of these can only be achieved through continuous focused work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the commission, the council, the member states and the ep have a joint responsibility here. in 2018, our resolution must finally focus more on the fact that discussions at the un are often already much further than our positions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the un secretary-general guterres gave us a very impressive speech here in the plenary in may, and he showed us the main challenges facing the united nations. it is important to me that the eu supports his approach to both advancing the reform of un security structures and strengthening the capacity for mediation and conflict resolution. in this context, eu member states must significantly increase their financial and human support for un peacekeeping and peacebuilding missions. our resolution fully supports the reform agenda of secretary-general guterres. but the un member states are also called upon to provide the financial means. the un's peace policy must not be jeopardized. the eu must make a contribution here, an eu which the un secretary-general has described here as the greatest peace project in history. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank andrey kovatchev for this really interesting report. it is well worth reading – mnogo blagodarya, as you say in bulgarian. as un secretary general antónio guterres emphasised in this plenary just a few weeks ago, we need ‘an investment in international cooperation to face the global challenges that are in front of us and that no country can face in an isolated way’. among the numerous topics that require close cooperation between the european union and the united nations, our focus should be on prevention and early action to stop the onset of crises, as the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy has already pointed out. i believe that out common eu-un efforts in addressing the root causes of terrorism, countering hybrid threats and promoting cyber defence must be strengthened and coordinated. early action also includes fighting terrorist propaganda through social media platforms and supporting counter-radicalisation policies, in line with the un plan for action to prevent violent extremism. yes, this requires close cooperation, responsible innovative solutions and early action, but we should keep in mind that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the g20 summit in hamburg this weekend is a sign that the un is not working well. how can it be that 175 countries are at the door and 20 countries are shaping the course of world history? so i agree with you: the un needs to be reformed, it needs to be made stronger, it needs to be made more efficient. we should do everything we can to support the secretary-general, as you said. we have here in parliament the wish that a parliamentary assembly be set up in addition to the general assembly. after 70 years of existence of the un, it would be important that the citizens' chambers are not just observers, but that a subsidiary body is formed under article 22, and there are more countries that agree to this than you realize: canada, switzerland, norway and a lot of countries in the third world. i would ask you to take a stand for it. i also believe that china must be included in multilateralism, even if the us is now attacking this system, attacking the un as it is attacking the eu. china must also make more financial contributions. you should try that.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, again there is less than one minute to say that the debate we have had tonight in this chamber will be duly reported and reflected in the forthcoming decisions and debates with the foreign ministers in the foreign affairs council ten days from now and, most of all, in the work we do daily with the un system and, in particular, in view of the general assembly. i cannot tell you that i will see you in new york, because i guess we will see each other before that here in strasbourg. apart from that, we will continue our good work together.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate commissioner jourová in particular on her excellent work. today is a great day for the european union and for the fight against fraud. i would like to congratulate commissioner oettinger, who has spared himself four years of arduous negotiations, but has now come on board in time to succeed in the end. we are convinced that today we have made a real milestone in the protection of the financial interests of the european union and in the new powers for the european commission. we have concluded the legislative procedure on the directive on the criminal law applicable to fraud affecting the financial interests of the union - the so-called pif directive - a rather vague term. we are facing a historic moment because we are closing a major legal gap within the eu and taking the step towards the european public prosecutor. the committee on budgetary control has been calling for the establishment of such a european financial prosecutor for 20 years, and now we are finally there. i'm glad it was possible before midnight. i am extremely sorry, madam president, that this house is dealing with all sorts of marginal issues, but it has not been possible to put this essential part of the real progress of the european union and of real european unity on the agenda at a christian time, where perhaps someone is still watching. i am extremely sorry - and i appreciate that mr mcallister is still with us in the chamber - that this parliament has lost the ability to distinguish between what is important and what is not. this is a milestone for the european parliament. i'll cancel the appointment for personal revenge, that we meet at this time. i don't mind, i can't sleep at night anyway. i would like to say that this vote marks the end of four and a half years of hard work on this directive. in april 2014, just before the european elections, parliament adopted its position at first reading. i would also like to thank very warmly my colleague, mr lópez aguilar, the co-rapporteur from the committee on the interior. we have conducted trilogues from october 2014 to december 2016, with a break of almost one and a half years from june 2015 to october 2016 because the council refused to accept the core demand of parliament to include vat in the scope of the directive. the compromise text finally reached is quite visible from parliament's point of view. the inclusion of vat in particular is a very important step. i would like to thank the slovak presidency of the council, even though everyone is already in bed on the council side. i would like to thank the council very much for the fact that the various council presidencies have made it possible, time and again, to continue this difficult task. i should also like to mention the italian, latvian and dutch presidencies, under which substantial progress was also made in the negotiations. i would also like to thank the many dedicated staff of the commission, but especially you, commissioner jourová. this would certainly not have been possible without your continuous and persistent constructive efforts. today we are laying the foundations of the european public prosecutor's office, the so-called eppo. the piv directive harmonises the definitions of relevant offences including fraud, active and passive corruption, misuse of funds and sets a minimum level for the maximum penalties associated with them. the eppo will then be given investigatory powers for these crimes. it will also be able to identify damage from vat fraud of up to eur 10 million if at least two member states are involved. i want to say to you: today is a good day for the european union, for the european union's finances, and that is why i believe that we should not rest in any way, making the eppo a success now. madam president, i have waited so long for this moment, that is why i have decided to overstay my speaking time, which is brutal, so i need you to turn off the microphone today, because i think it is a really good day for the fight against fraud.
member of the commission. – madam president, many members mentioned the inclusion of vat as a big achievement. i must say that this is very much thanks to the continuous pressure from parliament’s side, because i understood from the beginning of the negotiations that this was a red line for the parliament. so we opened the second negotiating front with the ministers of finance and we achieved something which all through 2015 nobody believed we would manage, namely to have vat under the anti-fraud directive and the eppo as well. so thank you again for this continuous pressure, which helped us a lot in the tough negotiations. some members mentioned the time it took and the lengthy processes for both the anti—fraud directive and the eppo. we all knew over this process that it was worth investing time and energy in this, because we knew for sure that we were fighting for something good. we were doing it not only because of the worrying statistics and the money which was being stolen or going into the pockets of corrupt people, but only because there was much more at stake than the money itself, namely the trust of eu taxpayers. i see this as a very important historical moment, since we can now say to europeans that we are doing our best to protect their money. i would like to thank parliament once again. i count on your support tomorrow and in a few weeks’ time in this plenary when you will debate and vote on the eppo.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to thank the members very much and to speak on the formalities. we have efdd applications which we will have to reject tomorrow. we all have to stand together. i really want to reassure everyone that we have to do this because otherwise the whole story won't come true. now it's up to us to make the eppo a success. we must organise coordination with olaf, eurojust and europol. we have to make sure that the eppo is really successful in practice, because that is the only way we can guarantee that we have created a good cause. we have 20 member states - not yet seven - and here too we need to apply pressure. commissioner jourová, please do not avoid a fight! we must put pressure on the seven member states. it is poland, it is hungary important member states which are not exactly among my greatest role models in dealing with european money. we must get these member states to join the eppo. we need to get them to see the value of the eppo, and you can have us on your side. i want to thank you again from the bottom of my heart. i would also encourage us to involve olaf and its vast experience in combating transnational crime. olaf is the most experienced body we have and of course we must take a very special approach here and involve olaf in the whole structure. i think it's really groundbreaking today, no matter what time it is. i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements in preparation for the g20 summit on 7 and 8 july 2017 (2017/2762 ((rsp)).
the president of the council. thank you very much, mr. manager. first of all, let me say how proud i am to be here today in the european parliament representing the presidency of the council of the european union and estonia. i look forward to a very good cooperation with the european parliament and thank you for the way in which the estonian presidency and i have already been received in this house. mr president, i would like to thank i am grateful for your invitation to discuss the g20 summit, which germany will host from friday in hamburg. at the summit, g20 leaders, including presidents tusk and juncker, will be faced with intense discussions on various topics of global importance. the international political environment is currently particularly charged and global cooperation can no longer be taken for granted. in this context, the mission of european leaders is clear. the g20 is central to this effort since it is as g20 leaders stated in pittsburgh in 2009 the premier forum for international economic cooperation. it is also essential to give a clear signal that securing balanced and inclusive growth remains a top priority. even if the global economy is showing positive momentum, political uncertainty surrounding the outlook is still high. allow us to expand on a selection of issues which i think will take centre stage in hamburg. i will refer to trade, climate, migration, digitalisation and countering terrorism. it should be the eu's priority to send a strong signal to the g20 of our commitment to open trade and multilateralism. as recalled by the june european council, the eu will pursue a robust trade policy, upholding an open and rules-based multilateral trading system with a central role for the wto. the eu will also keep markets open and fight protectionism, firm in the belief that trade contributes to creating wealth and jobs. the eu will therefore actively promote an ambitious free-trade agenda on the global stage. in this respect, reaching a political agreement on the eujapan trade deal ahead of the g20 meeting would send a strong signal against protectionism. we need to improve the daily lives of citizens by ensuring that the benefits of globalisation are more widely shared. as was stressed by the june european council, we need to foster a truly level playing field, while remaining vigilant concerning the respect and promotion of key standards, including social, environmental, health and consumer standards, which are central to the european way of life. beyond that, we must also be able to better communicate the actual benefits of trade to the wider public. on climate change, we are all aware that the global community needs to act urgently and move forward with the implementation of the paris agreement. the unilateral decision by the united states administration to withdraw from the paris agreement is therefore a highly regrettable step. we already discussed this issue here in parliament during the june session. as you are aware, the eu's commitment to fully implementing the paris agreement was strongly reaffirmed by the june european council. the agreement remains a cornerstone of global efforts to effectively tackle climate change, and it cannot be renegotiated. i can only further confirm that the council under the estonian presidency will continue in its commitment to ambitious global action against climate change and support the global ownership of the paris agreement. the eu and its member states are playing their full part in implementing the agreement, both through the development of our domestic policies and in keeping with our commitment to global solidarity. we will have to minimize the effects of the us decision on the effectiveness and credibility of the climate framework. the presidency believes that we should continue our dialogue and engagement with the us. at the same time, we can also be encouraged by strong statements of commitment, as well as pledges by local governments, businesses, cities, communities and other non-state actors in america. these developments underscore the importance of the action agenda as a platform to connect the different non-state actors. its importance is expected to grow in the coming years, boosting the political profile and momentum for climate action. my third point is on migration. dealing with the migration crisis has been at the core of the political debate in the eu, including here in parliament, and it is all the more pertinent today in the light of the news from the central mediterranean and italy. we naturally tend to focus on the migration crisis in our part of the world, but migration is not a european phenomenon. nor is managing it solely a european responsibility. it is rather a global responsibility, requiring collective solutions in full respect for our obligations under international law. in this regard, the g20 is launching the g20 africa partnership, which should foster sustainable and inclusive economic growth and development. it will contribute to creating decent employment, particularly for women and young people, thus addressing poverty and the root causes of migration. this also ties in closely with the ongoing legislative work in the eu on the external investment plan, including the european fund for sustainable development and the european investment bank's external lending mandate. we are also committed to taking an active part in the follow-up to the un summit on addressing large movements of refugees and migration, held in september last year. the eu intends to play a prominent role in the process leading to the establishment in 2018 of un global compacts on migration and refugees. we would ask all g20 members to engage as well. digitalisation is a key priority for the estonian presidency and, therefore, we welcome the inclusion of this topic at the g20 summit. information and communications technology is no longer a specific sector. it is the backbone of all modern innovative economic systems. therefore, we need to breach digital gaps based on, inter alia, age, geography, gender and income. however, technological progress also involves challenges to our security and democracy, which we expect to be reflected by the g20. these challenges highlight the need to strengthen consumer protection, transparency and security in the use of information and communication technology. last but not least, the eu has been at the global forefront of the fight against terrorism financing. recently an agreement on the revision of the fourth antimoney laundering agreement was reached. countering terrorism requires holistic action, including improved cooperation and preventing violent extremism conducive to terrorism.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, in the coming days, the g20 leaders will meet in hamburg. it will be an important moment: there will be many new faces around the table, and there are many challenges to address. the agenda is more far-reaching than for previous meetings, showing that this format has the potential to look far beyond its initial economic focus. economy and trade will certainly feature large, but also the fight against terrorism, as well sustainable development, climate change and energy, migration, africa, health, digitalisation, employment and women’s empowerment. for the eu, the g20 summit is an opportunity to highlight the positive contribution we are currently making to global growth, our vision for fair globalisation, set out in the reflection paper on harnessing globalisation, and our consistent leadership across multiple areas of the global agenda. examples include our commitment to the paris agreement, progress on our progressive, values-based trade agenda, and our engagement with developing countries through the european fund for sustainable development on which the house will vote this week. in these times of turmoil, it is also the moment to show our unwavering commitment to global multilateral governance and responsible international political dialogue, aimed at delivering in the interest of people all over the world. against a background of rising ultra-nationalist politics, posing a risk to global economic growth and the rules-based global order, the g20 hamburg summit has the motto ‘shaping an interconnected world’, to underline the necessity of multilateral cooperation for prosperity, security and freedom. let me briefly run you through the main messages that we as the eu want to give. on the economy, we will highlight the positive contribution the eu is making to the global economy. the eu is growing at nearly 2% this year and next year. the european investment plan is well on track, having led to more than eur 200 billion in additional and sustainable investments. we are getting our mojo back! on climate and energy, we will reaffirm our strong commitment to the paris agreement, clean energy transition and support for the poor and vulnerable in the fight against climate change, and we will maintain cohesion within the g19 despite the us decision to withdraw from the paris agreement. we would, of course, welcome it if the us would reconsider its decision, but let me be very clear: the deal cannot be renegotiated. on trade, we will present our vision for harnessing globalisation instead of turning inward and resorting to protectionism, because we all agree that there is no ‘protect’ in protectionism, but there is isolation in isolationism. we will demonstrate that the eu will stand up for free and fair trade and for the multilateral trading system as a whole, and we will showcase the progress we are making on our progressive trade agenda, with the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement and now the eu-japan trade deal. and, because trade should be fair, we are looking for a strong signal from china as to its full cooperation within the global forum on steel access capacity. on taxation, we will maintain momentum for the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. next steps will include defensive measures against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions and increased efforts to promote the availability, and international exchange, of information on beneficial ownership of legal persons and legal arrangements. on migration: this is a challenge that is going to be with us for quite some time to come – for decades. we must preserve a commitment to a comprehensive global response to tackling irregular migration and forced displacement, including support for the un global compact on refugees and on regular, safe, orderly migration, and we must build support for a strengthened approach to break the business model of migrant smuggling. this is what we must do on the global stage but let me add one thing: it would already make a world of difference in europe if every single member state would live up to its commitments to show solidarity with those of our member states most affected by this challenge. we cannot leave italy alone with this. everybody should play their part. (applause)we have shown in the past that if we stick together and find solutions that everybody shares we can reach results. certainly the situation in greece is not yet where we want it to be. there is still a lot to do, but if you look back at 2015 and then look at the situation now, you will see that much has also improved. there is an incredible level of solidarity with refugees and migrants in greece and in italy. but the rest of europe cannot simply count on the solidarity of the people in greece and italy, because the people there also have their limits, and we need to show that the rest of europe understands this and is playing its part in helping to resolve this crisis. (applause)on terrorism, we need agreement on an action plan to advance the fight against terrorism. we will not win the battle against terrorist financing and the spread of radicalisation online if we do not work with our international partners on this. on africa: we will support close partnership with africa to foster sustainable growth and job creation. just imagine if we do not do this: our refugee problem in the future will then be so much worse than it already is today. the only sustainable solution is growth and more optimism in africa, so that people understand it is in their interest to stay in africa and to develop their own countries, instead of going to europe. lastly, i welcome the fact that the german g20 presidency has put strong emphasis on stakeholder involvement. all the groups concerned –business, labour, civil science, the think tanks, women and youth – have been active and have put forward recommendations. we are in a post-paternalistic society and we can no longer prescribe, from politics or governance, what should be done: we need to include global brain power to make sure that we find the right solutions. that is how globalisation will be shaped in the interest of humanity as a whole, because, at the end of the day, everything we do here in the european parliament and in the commission is at the service of citizens, their freedoms and their ability to pursue their hopes and dreams. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council presidency, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen! the past few weeks have been overshadowed by sad news. i am thinking of the death of our former chancellor helmut kohl, i am thinking of the first president of the european parliament, simone veil, whom we also remembered yesterday, i am thinking of a bus accident in my home region of bavaria on monday, in which 18 people died and many were injured, and so on. i am also looking ahead to what is happening in hamburg at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: demonstrations, riots, all the negative headlines that are also dominating the summit which is taking place this weekend. if we look at the agenda for the g20 meeting and the choice of topics, it seems to me that dissent is also pre-programmed, especially in the area of climate policy. i have two messages: first, i think it's important that the developed and emerging countries come together and discuss. i would like to repeat the lesson i learned from the moving funeral which took place here in this house last saturday. it was really unique for me to be reminded once again of helmut kohl's message: stay in the conversation, try to develop solutions together. that is why i think it is good that the g20 summit is taking place. and secondly, i think if there are just a few, a few positive messages, if there is just some progress in the area of trade policy and in the area of support for africa, then it is a big step forward.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the g20 is an event without legitimacy. the only legitimate one is the un. this quote is not from me, but from the great french diplomat, resistance fighter and author of the un declaration of human rights, stéphane hessel. that's why hamburg will be outraged. the g20 summit will be held in my home town, the most beautiful city in germany. however, many will leave the city when the fine gentlemen trump or erdoğan visit us. hamburg, the gateway to the world, will be like a no-go zone so that protesters will not disturb the heads of state. we don't like curfews in hamburg, as the world-famous reeperbahn proves every night. of course, heads of state should talk to each other, especially in times of global crisis. you don't have to do that in the rocky mountains. but the g20 is negotiating the fate of the world. these debates are therefore to be held before the united nations in new york. then mr. trump wouldn't be so far from the golf course. the g20, which accounts for 80 percent of the world's gross domestic product, is meeting to discuss important issues: trade, migration, tax dumping, climate change, security and terrorism. tax evaders are the real high-priced evaders. up to 30 trillion dollars are hidden in tax havens. according to oxfam, about eight people now own as much as half the world's population. this is a sick development, if i may say so. and it's not only since the refugee crisis that we've needed public investment in housing, schools, universities, hospitals. but the negotiation - also here in the eu - of a blacklist of tax havens is turning into a diplomatic cow-trading. we need to finally source and penalise taxation of financial flows in tax havens, inside and outside the eu. the wars in the middle east - from afghanistan to iraq, libya and syria - have created chaos, state breakdown, terror and flight. not only bombs, but also free trade agreements - such as the eu's ttip and ceta with japan - have created major economic dislocation in africa. the arms exports and the partnership with terror patrons like saudi arabia or the new eu doorkeeper erdoğan have only made the islamic state great. but the g20 is now discussing military refugee defense and other rotten deals like the ones with turkey, like in libya or egypt. the saudi king wanted to bring his camels to hamburg. he can do that. we have sheep and fish. the port of hamburg, on the other hand, is sending arms to the gulf dictators. and the eu wants to continue to upgrade with the defence union. nato is aiming for up to two per cent of the national product. this is the money we need to fight poverty and climate change. the vast majority of hamburgers will therefore take to the streets peacefully against this policy - and that is a good thing.
i am very sorry but with all the understanding one may have for your point, the blue card is there to ask a question of the speaker. you did not ask a question of the speaker. please use the procedures that are foreseen if you want to ask for something to be deleted from the minutes. you may do so in a personal remark at the end of the debate.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner timmermans, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. yes, globally there is a lot of bad news -- angelika niebler mentioned some of it -- and that makes it all the more important that we use all the opportunities to re-establish global governance. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the united states, which is the only country in the world that has a policy of putting its own people first. this must be the motto of global governance to establish global structures in the interest of the people. and i do believe that the eu has to put some priorities in place. we have heard that africa must be a priority. there is no question that we need to develop a sustainable development strategy for africa so that people can have a perspective at home and make their life chances a reality there. investment and good governance for africa is, in my view, a priority for the eu. then, of course, there's the empowerment of women. when the ilo talks about the forgotten billion, the third forgotten billion, it means women who are unable to develop their skills, so empowering women, the second priority. the third priority is fair trade, not just free trade, of course, away from protectionism. when the ilo says that 780 million people who are also producing products for us in global value chains don't have enough income to finance their own lives, something is wrong! we must have fair conditions for global value chains, we must strengthen workers' rights. it is only then that trade is not only free but also fair, and that must be the third priority. hamburg is indeed a beautiful city, but hamburg also represents the free and fair spirit of people, and therefore hamburg should also be a symbol of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, let me be clear: i think it is good that this g20 summit is taking place. the g20 summits are one of the few places where different actors are talking to each other in a time of globalization and the crisis of multilateralism. this is a chance to be seized. but it must also be said that the debate before the g20 is dominated by false alternatives. there is also something between the global trade and financial market order as we have it today and trump's protectionism. the way in between is the globalisation of social and environmental rules, which must go hand in hand with the opening up of markets, and therefore we can only say to the eu: the time has come, with the free trade agenda, with the bilateral agreements as they have been designed so far, as you have now redesigned them with japan, not to continue simply like this, but we need treaties that take the opportunity of the hour to enforce social and environmental rules as part of these standards. we must not allow this to continue, but we must strengthen international cooperation, but in a way that strengthens social and environmental rules. what is happening in hamburg at the moment at this g20 summit is sad in other respects, because hamburg is indeed a liberal city, and part of that liberal spirit is to welcome not only the heads of state but also the peaceful demonstrators. they too must have an open city.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european union is one of the three major players in the g20, and that is why the european union has set itself big goals: to lead africa to growth and jobs - all of africa - and that is the solution to the migration crisis. ladies and gentlemen, can we please stay on the carpet? the european union has not even managed to bring greece back to growth and jobs, a small country which, compared to african countries, is a really well-organised, well-developed country with a strong government. we have not been able to lead this small country to growth and jobs. and that's why it's unrealistic to talk about all of africa now and want to stabilize all of africa and put it on a growth path. we must concentrate, we must formulate realistic goals. these realistic goals in the wake of the immigration crisis can only mean that we focus on north africa, on the mediterranean countries in africa, on the arab states, where growth and jobs are also needed and where islamic terrorism is breeding. that is the priority and that is what we should be focusing on!
thank you, first vice-president, and thank you also for reminding us of john cleese and his contributions to our common european culture. please do inform us when you charge a commissioner with a department for silly walks!
that concludes the item. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments) written statements (rule 162)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, turkey is a candidate country and a key partner for the eu. we cooperate in many important areas of joint interest, such as counter—terrorism, foreign and security policy, energy, the economy and trade, as well as migration. the eu—turkey joint action plan for refugees and migration management and the march 2016 statement continue to be applied in the interest of both parties. so far, this cooperation has led to a significant decrease in deaths at sea and a substantial reduction of irregular migrant arrivals from turkey. it has also led to an improved situation for syrian migrants in turkey. the eu facility for refugees in turkey has made a significant contribution through additional funding in the areas of humanitarian assistance, education migration management, heath, municipal infrastructure and socio—economic support. we continue to appreciate turkey for its enormous efforts in hosting and addressing the needs of around 3 million refugees from syria and iraq. work continues on the issue of visa liberalisation, which, however, remains conditional on turkey’s fulfilment of all the requirements of the road map. we look forward to any further progress regarding this issue during our presidency this year. we follow the domestic developments in turkey with deep concern. regarding the april referendum this year, president juncker, high representative mogherini and commission hahn issued a joint statement, which stressed that the constitutional amendments and their implementation will be assessed in light of turkey’s obligations as an eu candidate country. we share many of the concerns to which you parliament referred both in its resolution on turkey from november last year and in relation to the draft resolution recently discussed and voted upon in the committee on foreign affairs. many of these concerns were also reflected in the presidency conclusions of the general affairs council, adopted on 13 december 2016. the significant backsliding in the areas of the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights are deeply worrying and should be urgently addressed by the relevant turkish authorities. the unequivocal rejection of the death penalty is an essential requirement for eu membership, and it is also part of turkey’s international obligations. in contacts with turkey the eu side takes every opportunity to recall these and other concerns, and we will continue to do so. turkey needs to normalise its relations with cyprus and fully implement the provisions of the additional protocol of their association agreement. nevertheless, continued engagement and an open dialogue with turkey remain important. the eu should remain the anchor for turkey’s reforms. we continue to expect turkey to respect the highest standards when it comes to democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of expression. as for the situation in the south east of turkey, the eu will continue to call for an immediate cessation of violence and terrorist attacks. this needs to be accompanied by a return to a credible and inclusive political settlement process and a genuine political dialogue, aiming at a political solution there.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to start by commending the rapporteur’s efforts to capture the main challenges in the complex eu-turkey relationship in a very comprehensive report. i share the strong concerns of this house when it comes to the domestic situation in turkey as already reflected in the commission’s 2016 country report and in our public positions ever since. the number of jailed journalists remains very high – currently over 160, including some eu citizens. the situation of academics and of civil society in general has worsened. the opposition finds itself under ever-growing pressure. honourable members, i am deeply committed to improving eu-turkey relations, but only tangible steps by ankara, reversing the worrying trend on the fundamentals of our relationship, can accomplish this in the mid- and long term. for instance, the ad hoc committee offering remedies to excessive government measures after the attempted coup needs to produce urgent results. continued close cooperation with the council of europe is vital in this context. i also echo secretary-general jagland’s call for the release of the two teachers on hunger strike, whose life-threatening situation is rapidly deteriorating. the letter to president erdoğan, signed by the four largest political groups in this house on the situation of the freedom of the press, will hopefully show its the desired effect. in short, we cannot and we will not ignore the worrying developments in turkey, precisely because we want fruitful bilateral relations. turkey is a candidate country. with the statutes come rules and obligations, obligations and standards to which turkey itself has subscribed. at the same time, our common challenges are growing by the day, from security in the wider region to the fight against terrorism to the handling of migration and refugees. to tackle these challenges together, it is in our european self-interest to have a stable, democratic, prosperous partner who acts under the rule of law. that is precisely why the eu was among the few first international actors to declare its full support for turkey, its citizens and its democratic institutions after the terrible coup attempt nearly a year ago – that horrible night during which more than 240 people lost their lives, 2 200 were wounded and the turkish grand national assembly was attacked and severely damaged. madam president, honourable members, when presidents juncker and tusk met with president erdoğan a few weeks ago, they agreed to pursue our agenda of engagement and open dialogue. this will include a number of high-level thematic dialogues and bilateral visits over the coming months. furthermore, last week’s steering committee of the facility for refugees in turkey, the rapporteur, ms piri, as well as the chair of the committee on budgets, mr arthuis, could witness themselves that the facilities are being smoothly implemented, and it is delivering very tangible results on the ground for the refugees. we have given hundreds of thousands basic livelihoods. we have trained thousands of teachers, and they are giving hundreds of thousands of refugee children a formal education. we are now providing many with a socio-economic perspective. all of this is key to reducing migration pressure. right after our discussion here today, i will fly to ankara to meet with minister çelik and minister for the economy, zeybekci. i will also visit a health project founded by the eu facility for refugees. my message will be clear. the european union sticks to its financial commitments under the refugee facility. our support has a clear impact, but our overall relationship can only move forward if there is a clear improvement of the domestic situation in turkey. honourable members, closely engaging with turkey is crucial. it is, however, equally important that we make it crystal clear that we all expect positive and tangible developments in and by turkey. yes, we engage, but we are not moving the goalposts in either direction. we continue to have a very close eye on what is happening in the crucial areas of rule of law and fundamental freedoms. that is not only a matter of fulfilling eu criteria and universal values; it is, first and foremost, the only way to end the deep divide in turkish society.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur, kati piri, and also the colleagues from the other groups for the good cooperation. it is very remarkable how we have managed to get this report this year. we have seen dramatic developments in turkey, and the situation has been well and truly described here: thousands of dismissals, hundreds of arrests, a witch hunt against political dissidents, the abolition of the rule of law and a climate of fear that prevails in that country. so how do we deal with a country like that? and i think we should have voted on this report, which we are voting on tomorrow, much earlier, before the referendum. we could then have explained to the turkish people in our report what this constitutional referendum really means. because i say, hardly anyone in turkey really knew what this referendum was about. the turkish government has succeeded in misleading its own people. because the constitutional amendments are not good for the country. but it is clear to us now that we must finally draw the right conclusions. the council of ministers must finally have the courage to do so. our citizens at home have long since lost the ability to understand why these sham negotiations on eu accession are still being maintained and why the turkish government is still receiving considerable financial resources from us. of course, it is clear to everyone here - and this has been said before - that a close and privileged relationship between the eu and turkey is absolutely essential in the interests of both sides. but this can only be achieved if the relationship is based on respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, democratic values and the rule of law. finally, turkey accepted these conditions when it became a candidate country in 1999. but unfortunately, it has long refused to accept these basic values as its own. this shows that the accession of this country is not an option. and it is only logical that we now call for the formal suspension of the negotiations, which will mean the end of the accession negotiations in plain language if the constitutional reform package is implemented unchanged. the amendments to the constitution clearly violate the copenhagen criteria. however, turkey has not fulfilled these criteria for a long time and has now underlined this once again by expropriating christian cultural heritage. churches and all their cemeteries were confiscated and transferred to the religious authority diyanet. it is a mockery that turkey says in the same breath: and we want to remain a member of the european union. this is a clear violation of our fundamental principles. we cannot accept that. we must concentrate on another level, which will be the customs union. we should work together towards this, but also on the basis of the rule of law and respect for fundamental human rights.
i have to say, madam president, i have a very short question on the rules of procedure. here speeches are covered one minute covered three quarters of a minute, and if we can only talk for one minute, then you should apply the same right to all. or is there some rule that allows some of us to talk for one minute longer, 45 seconds longer, and we hit the hammer at exactly one minute and two seconds? equal rights for all, or you'll have to re-explain the rules!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. turkey has been a candidate country for 18 years now, and has been in negotiations for 12 years. it is a time when relations between turkey and the european union should have improved. the opposite is true. relations are deteriorating year by year because there is no longer anyone on either side who seriously believes that this negotiation process could one day lead to success. i believe that this is as true for brussels as it is for ankara. we have a population that opposes turkey's accession to the european union, 77 per cent of the population, and in germany 86 per cent want the accession negotiations to end. we have more journalists in prison in turkey than in china or iran, academic freedom of research and teaching has been eradicated in universities with an iron broom, the judiciary is no longer independent. i think it is good that the commission says it will not ignore this. i am delighted, mr president-in-office, to hear a sentence from you here: we expect turkey to fulfil the highest standards in democracy, fundamental rights and judicial independence. please, don't just read what your officers write to you, have the courage to use your own mind. because no one can believe that this is really the way you described it. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is proposing to freeze the accession negotiations with turkey. this is not the same as proposing to end the dialogue with turkey. on the contrary . it is the proposal to finally put the dialogue on an honest footing: on energy policy, on the customs union, on visa liberalization, on tourism, on environmental issues. we have so many things to settle and can settle together with the turks, even in the face of difficult developments in domestic politics. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must make dialogue with turkey honest. let's put him on a foundation that works! let us say yes to dialogue, let us say yes to the treaties we can conclude with turkey! but let us be clear that there can be no accession and there will be no accession. the country is moving away from europe. let us not ignore this any longer, but let us draw the necessary consequences!
madam president, dear kati piri, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think we have a really good report here, which shows not only expertise but also a little empathy - something that is not to be found in every report. the common future with our neighbour turkey is far from over. but we will - we have heard the reasons - if the referendum is now translated into concrete legislation, suspend accession negotiations or propose to the council that they be suspended. because it really doesn't make any sense anymore. and, count lambsdorff, it's not like they started negotiating 18 years ago and then it went downhill year after year. mr erdoğan in particular was one of those who gave us hope a long time ago that things would improve a little. it's more honest to interrupt or postpone these negotiations, and it's important because it shows others that you have to decide where you want to go. you can't hold a door and keep shouting, "let me in!" there's this need to make a decision. but it's just as important that our friends know that we're not going to let them down. and our friends are those who want a different turkey, who want democracy and the separation of powers, for which the rule of law is important and civil liberties even more so. we will continue to support the opposition parties, journalists, professors, and the many young people in civil society who live in turkey or in some of our cities. and concrete proposals are being made. if we suspend the negotiations, we must also see that the means of referral are used to bring civil society and refugees in turkey, but also other people, together through erasmus+, through other things. whoever is not our friend must be clear. it is this government and those who carry out coups or commit acts of terrorism. there are no good and bad ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, when my friend selahattin demirtaş was arrested, everyone in this house said: opposition is not a crime. when more and more journalists were arrested in turkey, we said: journalism, including critical journalism, is not a crime. today we must finally say that working in a school or teaching at a university that is part of the so-called gülen movement is not a crime. and i think that the european parliament must absolutely reject the idea of collective guilt and collective persecution, which is now hitting the very people who are counted among the gülen movement. we have therefore tabled an amendment to that effect. i am particularly concerned about this, as a german member of the european parliament, because my country has brought this bad experience to europe, which has shown what it is like to be subjected to such collective persecution. i think we have to make sure that no extraditions take place on the grounds that someone is a member of the gülen movement. i believe that the european court of human rights will finally be able to pilot cases... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, the debate on turkey's accession to the eu is a very exciting one. the cdu mrs sommer spoke and said: these are sham negotiations, they cannot lead to accession, we must finally draw conclusions from our speech, and to draw conclusions means: to suspend negotiations, not to cancel them. mr fleckenstein for the spd is of course also in favour of suspending the negotiations, not because of the referendum in turkey on the islamic dictatorship, but only if that referendum is implemented. the exciting question, count lambsdorff, remains, what will you do? because you said, "let's have an honest dialogue. yes to dialogue and no to accession. i did not hear 'negotiations are off'. but you'll have an opportunity to clear that up tomorrow. my amendment is numbered 2. it is a roll-call vote, and you can agree to the cancellation of the negotiations in such a way that we can see that you really mean it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the report reads like an indictment, and i do not understand why this house wants to debate eu membership at all and does not want to close the doors. what is to be done with turkey? we all know that the turks are oriental. they're not europeans. and in the orient, they have different ideas about gender politics, about human rights, about animal welfare, about religion than we europeans. i therefore find it a little presumptuous, mrs sommer, that you should express the arrogance of this house and say that we have finally been able to explain to the people what is good for their country and what is not good. you're gonna tell them what to do? do you think all turks are stupid? no, let us not interfere in internal politics and let us make it clear to the turks that they have nothing to lose in europe, that they should withdraw their troops from cyprus and accept the sovereign rights of their neighbours. what they do in turkey is none of our business.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the turkish constitutional referendum ended with a narrow yes a very narrow yes. many of us have surely felt that we may not have been doing the right things. but can we prove it? ladies and gentlemen, yes, we can prove it now. because a few days ago, a scientific study appeared in a peer-reviewed journal that did exactly this kind of statistical analysis of the election results, which shows: there was manipulation. here we see a striking cluster of constituencies that have a turnout of almost 100 percent and have also shown far above average "yes" votes. so here it has been statistically proven - with a probability of error of less than one per thousand - that it cannot be a coincidence that the ballot boxes have been obviously stuffed with yes votes. ladies and gentlemen, we have the smoking colt in our hands. we've seen it, we can prove it: the constitutional referendum in turkey was rigged. unfortunately, this comment is not in the report we are going to adopt tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank and congratulate all my colleagues for the good work they have done and for the fact that the european fund for sustainable development bears the signature of the european parliament. the following three points are particularly important. first, the un 2030 sustainable development goals must be visible and identified as a reference as the main criterion in all projects and policies. secondly, the paris agreement must be supported and implemented by europe more than ever as the most important goal, especially after trump's withdrawal. i therefore welcome the commitment to use at least 28% of investment in the fight against climate change, renewable energy and sustainable resources. and thirdly, projects which contribute to employment must fully respect the rights of workers. this includes both compliance with ilo core labour standards and the incorporation of oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises into the partnership agreements. i shall endeavour to ensure that these points are respected.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the eu was leading the international community when we shaped, negotiated and adopted the transformative, comprehensive, universal 2030 agenda. the eu must now also demonstrate strong leadership in the implementation of the agenda, both at home, at the eu member state level, and in the context of the high-level political forum on sustainable development. the council conclusions adopted in june, ahead of the fifth session of the forum this month, stress our full commitment to the 2030 agenda and the importance that the eu and its member states attach to driving forward its implementation. eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions is an indispensable requirement for sustainable development, which must be achieved in all its dimensions in a balanced and integrated manner. there can be no doubt about our commitment to achieving the 17 sustainable development goals by 2030, ensuring that no one is left behind and seeking to reach the furthest behind first. no doubt, we must promote social inclusion, with special attention to those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised. like the european parliament, the council continues to stress the need for the commission to demonstrate that it takes the implementation of the 2030 agenda seriously. we call on the commission to elaborate an implementation strategy, outlining timelines, objectives and concrete measures to reflect the 2030 agenda in all the relevant eu internal and external policies, taking into account the global impact of the eu’s domestic actions. this strategy should be based on a clear vision of how all relevant eu policies will contribute to the realisation of the 2030 agenda. there is an urgent need to identify gaps in all relevant policy areas within the eu to assess what more needs to be done by 2030 in terms of eu policy legislation and governance structure for horizontal coherence and means of implementation. even though much remains to be done in terms of concrete action, the council of 20 june welcomed the steps proposed and taken by the commission with regard to the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goal. on 7 june, the council, represented by the maltese presidency, along with the european parliament and the commission, co-signed a new european consensus on development, which sets out our shared vision and framework for action for development cooperation. the new consensus aligns the union’s development policy with the 2030 agenda. this will be our main deliverable when we attended the high level political forum in new york in a few days. the estonian mission to the united nations has invited ms linda mcavan, chairwoman of the committee on development, as a speaker at one of the side events. we, the eu institutions and member states alike, should be proud of this achievement. it is our new ambitious collective european development policy, and it addresses in an integrated manner the main focus points of the 2030 agenda: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. this year’s theme at the forum is at the heart of our new consensus –eradicating poverty and promoting prosperity in a changing world. indeed, poverty eradication remains the primary objective of our development policy. at the same time, it integrates the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development and underlines the links between development and other policies, including peace and security, humanitarian aid, migration, the environment and climate change. the new consensus also reaffirms our commitment to a rules-based global order with multilateralism and the united nations at its core. given the strong link with climate action, through the new consensus we are also giving a timely political signal to reaffirm our strong commitment to implement the paris agreement. the eu member states consider the high level forum as the main forum for sustainable development issues within the un framework and are committed to progress towards implementation of the sustainable development goals. after the four eu pioneers, including my own country estonia, which were among the first 22 countries to present voluntary national reviews last year, this year 10 out of 44 reports will be presented by eu member states. the european parliament’s report on sustainability goals, adopted in may 2016, shows broad convergence with council views on how to advance this ambitious agenda through effective implementation and we are looking forward to cooperating with you on this topic to ensure that, together, we reach our goals by 2030.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking mr dance for his excellent work as rapporteur. the agenda 2030 declaration itself acknowledges the essential role of parliament through their enactment of legislation and adoption of budgets and their role in ensuring accountability for the effective implementation of the agenda 2030 commitments. so this report is very welcome, and we appreciate the high level of interest that it has raised as a signal of parliament’s own commitment to engage in implementation and the review of progress. the united nations 2030 agenda, adopted unanimously by world leaders in 2015, represents a new global sustainable development framework. it is a commitment to eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development by 2030 worldwide, ensuring that no one is left behind. the eu has been instrumental in shaping the 2030 agenda and it is also committed to remain a frontrunner in the implementation phase. sustainable development is a shared responsibility. it implies leadership from the commission and other eu institutions, but also the full engagement of member states and all levels of government at national, regional and local level and of civil society. i therefore welcome the opportunity here today to react to the european parliament’s own initiative report in response to the commission communication ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’ presented in november last year. from the perspective of my own portfolio, i am pleased to see in the report several strong references to how the environment and natural resources underpin the achievement of the broader sustainability agenda. i also welcome the references to the 7th environment action programme, whose objectives map well on to the sustainable development goals (sdg). indeed, it is crucial to ensure the full coherence between the different policies and ensure that the eu’s priorities as highlighted by president juncker integrate our international commitments. i will ensure that the current 7th environmental action plan evaluation will look at its consistency with our priorities and sustainable development goals commitments to pave the way for the period post 2020. the commission’s communication of november highlights key eu policies for each of the 17 sdgs, particularly in the context of the 10 priorities of this commission, and also outlines what further steps are envisaged. the response to the 2030 agenda includes two work streams. firstly, to mainstream the sustainable development goals in the european policy framework and commission priorities, sustainable development becoming a guiding principle for all our policies. we are using our better regulation tools for this purpose. secondly, further developing our longer-term vision and the focus of sectoral policies after 2020. in addition to that, we have said in our communication that the new multiannual financial framework (mff) beyond 2020 will reorient the eu budget contributions towards the achievement of the eu’s long-term objectives. stakeholder involvement will be crucial in implementation of the 2030 agenda. the commission will therefore launch a multi-stakeholder platform chaired by the first vice-president, frans timmermans, with a role in the follow-up and exchange of best practices on sdg implementation across sectors. the input of the platform will be very important for developing our vision for the future of sdg implementation through the second work stream. we need to have a good dialog with the european parliament, the council and the member states in the second stream process as well. we are currently reflecting on how to best organise this. the successful implementation of the sdgs requires consistent monitoring. as requested by this house, the commission will, from this year, provide regular reporting of the eu’s progress on the implementation of the 2030 agenda based on a reference indicator framework. stakeholders have been consulted on the choice of these indicators. a periodic report is expected to be published in november this year. initiatives, supported by the commission for the next month, include a non-toxic environment strategy, an ambitious plastics strategy and a comprehensive review of water legislation. the report recognises that economic growth will only be possible by respecting planetary boundaries to ensure a life of dignity for all. the evidence is clear that moving from our linear to a more circular economic model significantly improves resource efficiency and therefore cost efficiency, and creates more jobs. i also noted the report considers that significant acceleration of green investment, innovation and growth in the eu is needed, including use of new financing tools and different approaches to current investment policy. i particularly welcome the reference in the report to the commission’s joint communication on the future of our oceans and could not agree more with the statement that urgent action is needed in the eu and globally. this was made clear at the un ocean conference in new york last month and will frame the agenda for the eu our ocean conference in october in malta. the un high-level political forum starts in just 5 days and leads to a ministerial meeting on 17 to 20 july. my colleague commissioner mimica will attend on 17 and 18 july. we see the high-level political forum as a critical component of the implementation of the 2030 agenda. it is the principal un body to review progress, identify challenges and make recommendations to help ensure we achieve the sdgs. during his visit, commissioner mimica will also highlight progress with the eu’s implementation of the 2030 agenda, both internally as well as externally. he will also make clear that the eu is determined to play its full part in promoting the implementation of the agenda through its internal and external actions. the commissioner is also expected to highlight the new european consensus on development as a landmark document for the eu, having been agreed by the commission, member states and the european parliament and applying to both the eu and its member states, in their national capacity. the commissioner will make a statement on behalf of the eu and its member states in the general debate of the ministerial meeting of the high-level political forum on 17 july. he will also host a separate side-event at the high-level political forum to introduce the new consensus to our international partners. other sessions of the high-level political forum will cover a range of issues, including sessions on specific sustainable development goals: sustainable development goal (sdg) 1 on poverty, sdg 2 on hunger, sdg 3 on health, sdg 5 on gender equality, 9 on infrastructure and 14 on oceans. in addition, 44 voluntary national reviews will also be presented at this year’s high-level political forum, including from ten eu member states.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on agriculture and rural development. the term sustainability was coined by hans carl von carlowitz in germany over 300 years ago. he introduced sustainable forestry in 1713 and told people that no more wood could be cut than was actually growing. sustainability is a big word today, sometimes an inflationary word. it affects all of us. the question of how we design sustainability has a direct impact on our present and our future. the united nations adopted 17 detailed sustainability goals in the 2030 agenda, which also formed the basis for our report. it was important to me in the committee on agriculture that we consider the consideration of all three pillars - social, economic and environmental - as being equal. sustainability can work if a sense of regionality and production processes is developed again in primary products. the social pillar in the countryside with tourism, living village culture with associations such as volunteer fire brigades and bands is more than just a living and working space. according to one study, the world's population will increase to nine billion people. this poses great challenges for us as farmers. it is about food production, but also about the shortage of land due to infrastructure and housing. let us finally stop seeing agriculture and forestry as a problem and join us in recognizing agriculture as part of the solution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the rapidly growing antibiotic resistance is the biggest threat to humanity, next to global warming. we must concentrate on that. according to a study by the charité in berlin, by 2050, ten million people worldwide will die each year from multidrug-resistant strains of bacteria that no longer respond to antibiotics, unless we find alternatives to the animal cruelty and disease-causing livestock systems that are the breeding grounds for these deadly germs. the outcome of the vote on this report in the committee was very well received by a number of ngos working in the fields of poverty reduction, health, the environment and animal welfare. it is disappointing that the conservative forces in this house have once again tried to water down this report. i'm telling you, this short-term thinking is going to backfire. we are responsible for the consequences for future generations. i appeal to you: give the future a chance, vote for sustainability!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the united nations sustainable development goals are a commitment to all of us, and they are about our common future. that is why it is important that this parliament should approve the seb dance report by a large majority tomorrow. i was all the more annoyed that there were problems with the voting in committee, so that the epp could not initially approve. we found some of the passages very aggressive, in particular, they were seen by the farmers as an attack on the farmers. but we need sustainable development with farmers, with industry, with all the partners, and that is why i am very glad that we have managed to work out compromises with the rapporteur so that we can make this clearer than it has been in the past in the report. we want to take people with us, we want to take all the people involved who have to adapt. but i also want to make it very clear that the parties involved must be prepared to do so. we cannot say: nothing must change in industry, nothing must change in agriculture, but we must look together for new ways - innovative ways - of actually bringing economic growth, social aspects and environmental aspects together. i think that if we do a little better in the vote tomorrow than we did in committee, we will have a large majority in parliament. and then my urgent request to the council and the commission is to take this up as well, so that we can represent this together as eu organisations with all those involved in a good future for our children and for our planet. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so first of all, i would urge you not to identify the european people's party with the european right. we are the christian democrats, we are a popular party of the centre, and we are not the european right. secondly, we know that we need sustainable development in agriculture and food. but the original report said that we were going to tell people what to eat in the future. and so other parties in germany, for example, have had very bad experiences in the election campaign, and i would not recommend that the movimento 5 stelle prescribe to people what they have to eat.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two years after adopting the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the commission has still not presented a comprehensive strategy and timetable. i was with the commissioners in new york myself. we need more commitment and a faster, more proactive approach. the time-bound, transparent strategies called for by the committee on development include three points in particular which i would like to stress. the first is funding. public development cooperation, or oda, must finally become the central instrument for achieving the 2030 goals. this will only happen if all member states and the eu finally live up to their binding commitment to devote at least 0.7% of their gross national income to official development cooperation. we should continue to design the future multiannual financial framework in such a way as to prioritise and achieve the objectives of agenda 21. secondly, trade. trade agreements between the eu and member states should pay greater attention to fair and sustainable conditions. this includes adherence to the core labour standards of the international labour organisation, i.e. the anchoring and implementation of the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises. and third, climate diplomacy should be pursued as the central goal. the whole world is now looking to hamburg for the g20 summit, which is putting this challenge as its main theme. the commission finally needs a strategy to be presented on how it can achieve this goal together with the european parliament, the member states, academia and civil society.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to thank seb dance from the bottom of my heart. i must say that the way the report was presented was very impressive. it is not just the future of our planet that is at stake, but above all the future of our children. sustainability is very important. sustainable development has many aspects, as we have seen in the contributions. i would like to focus on one sustainability objective above all others, which so far, out of all others, has only been mentioned by commissioner vella himself. that's target fourteen. it's about the ocean. i'm a firm believer that we live on a blue planet, 70% of it is water. if we really have nine billion people in 2050, then 30 percent of the earth is not enough. we're going to need water for food, for climate, for climate change, for energy, for raw materials, for transportation and trade - for a lot of things - and also for health, for example, for medicine. and that's the point. the sea is not healthy. we really need to do something to make the oceans healthier, to protect them. only then can we use them sustainably, and only then will they really serve this planet and its future and the people who live on it.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the meps for their very valid comments. the commission welcomes the parliament’s own-initiative report. it is really a great support to better integrate our policies and to develop synergies to achieve the sdgs. it is clearly a call for an ambitious response to the 2030 agenda and i can assure everyone that sustainable development is and will remain at the heart of eu policy-making. but we have to be operational: sustainable development is complex and interlinked and so must go beyond simple declarations. the commission is committed to ensure an agenda of results, and i have had the opportunity to remind the environment ministers that we will not be judged only on what we announce but on what we do. but we need to make certain that all of the other ministers of all the other sectors are on board with us as well. many meps spoke about implementation and accountability and, as i mentioned in my introductory speech, we will be monitoring consistently to ensure the successful implementation of the sdgs. the commission will provide regular reporting of the implementation progress. the reporting will be based on a reference indicator framework. the indicators were arrived at after extensive consultation with a number of stakeholders, and we will start as of this year, and the report will be published in november this year. with regards to reporting, i would like to mention here the environmental implementation review and, as outlined in the report, the eir has already served as a useful tool in highlighting implementation gaps in the member states, and the commission has already started to take action based on these. for example, the clean air dialogues will help reach solutions to common challenges, and full implementation of the nhl action plan will help ensure that we meet the objectives of the birds and habitats directives. work is already being done by the commission as well on other fronts. we mentioned circular economy. a lot is also being done on sdg 14 in protecting our oceans to the eu’s ocean governance initiative. but let’s be very clear: sdgs are not exclusively and only about the environment and development, and in this context, i particularly welcome the proposal in the seb dance report for a cross-committee working group on sustainable development goals to ensure a horizontal working within parliament as well. this would then also provide an opportunity for members of the european parliament who have not yet put forward opinions to also engage in this topic. last but not least, we are committed to taking the implementation of the 2030 agenda forward. together with the european parliament and together with the council, also with other european institutions, international organisations, ngos, civil society and other stakeholders. i would like to conclude by thanking you again for today’s debate, which represents a very important contribution to the whole process of further developing and further shaping a vision for the future of europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the debate today shows that we share the same objective of achieving poverty eradication and sustainable development through effective implementation of the 2030 agenda. this will be done only if we work together and if we ensure that we have a clear vision of how all relevant eu policies will contribute to their achievement of the 2030 agenda. therefore, we need a clear way ahead and strong commitment by the eu and the member states to implement the 2030 agenda in all relevant internal and external policies.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, you have invited the council to speak on the issue of the seat of the european parliament. as you know, article 341 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the seat of the institutions shall be determined by common accord of the governments of the member states. i would remind you that the matter of the location of the seats of the institutions is addressed by protocol no 6 to treaty, which inter alia provides that the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg. the issue of determining the seats of the institutions is thus a matter for the member states when they discuss treaty changes at the intergovernmental conference and not for the council. you will therefore understand that i am not in a position to intervene further in this debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, under the treaties the commission has no role in decisions on this issue. the question of the seats of the institutions is one exclusively for the governments of the member states to decide by common accord. the present arrangements are set out in a protocol to the treaties, and this could only be altered using the process for treaty revision, which notably requires unanimity among the member states and ratification according to national constitutional requirements. it is therefore not for the commission as an institution to enter into the debate on the merits of the present arrangements or of any alternative that might be proposed.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not thank you very much, madam. it is certainly undeniable that the importance of strasbourg as the european capital must be recognised and that, of course, a possible move of the european medicines agency to strasbourg does not in itself sufficiently recognise this issue. but i still want to ask you, you just mentioned lille. do you really think lille has a chance? what criteria - international schools, jobs, research environment, pharmacological research, for example - do the commission and the council have in place for lille to meet? would it not be interesting, at least from an independent point of view, to make a different proposal from france?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i personally love the city of strasbourg and i want strasbourg to have a significance as an important european capital when roger helmer and ashley fox have long been forgotten in this parliament. the european union must be the future of strasbourg. but i am advocating a sustainable solution, sustainable for strasbourg - we do not have to re-discuss this every year - for france, for the european union and also for the european taxpayers. the other member states should make an offer to france to allow the parliament to meet permanently in brussels, but strasbourg will be more than compensated economically and in terms of prestige. and the headquarters of the medicines agency can be an element, an important first step. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. strasbourg is much better suited than many other candidates and definitely much better than lille. and that is why i am now calling for everyone to put aside their national egos and for us to find a european solution together. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so if that was the french government's statement, that's unfortunate. but then the debate will not stop. i think it would be a good opportunity. of course, there are always time periods that get us into trouble. but i don't think that's a sustainable solution. and that is why i believe that there will be no end to the debate, but that it will continue to be raised. my petition is really to talk together about how we can find a better solution. this is not against france. i personally like to come here, but we also have to take into account the taxpayers and the others who have to commute and lose a lot of time at work, and this problem is certainly not over with today. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. but i think we can all agree that lille is a lost candidate. by the way, this will not work, and there would be at least one chance - independent of the single-seat debate - that france would propose another candidate. but to bonn and berlin, i say this to my visitors every time. every time the question comes up: why do you have this second parliament, and why do you go back and forth so much? i always say that in germany we do the same stupid things with bonn and berlin. i would like to see that done away with as well, and i am advocating that as well. but i cannot - and the citizens cannot accept this - justify one nonsense with another nonsense.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say something about the rules of procedure. we all have our deadlines, and now we're always adding these little one-minute speeches. we're not getting anything new. so, mr president, i ask you to stop accepting blue cards for the sake of time. there's nothing new in the questions either! it's just resentments coming out! we want to have a debate. please don't take any more blue cards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i have never heard so much french in this house as i have heard tonight. madam grossetête, you have every reason to be right. we have two capitals in germany. but i would like to point out that the eu has three capitals - strasbourg and brussels, plus luxembourg. let 's not forget: if we remember mr juncker here two days ago, he said: 'the european parliament is ridiculous.' i have to tell you, from what i've heard here, he's absolutely right. parliament does not even have the right to decide its own seat. where in the world is there anything like that? and we've heard here from the british that they're leaving. why are they leaving? they're leaving because we have too much europe. ladies and gentlemen, if we keep going like this, more will go. and then the problem will resolve itself: we will not have two seats or one seat, and then we will not have any at all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. strasbourg is the seat of the european parliament by chance. it was the montanunion general assembly that was here at home. and she was only here at home because in luxembourg there was no great hall for the deputies. that's why they went to strasbourg. yes, it is historical, it has nothing to do with european history! and then luxembourg is something quite decisive. we must imagine what mr juncker and all the others brought to luxembourg in terms of activities. no one talks about it. we have a double seat here. the luxembourgers are also sitting there, and they are only there because of historical circumstances. yes, and if i look at it now - i have my french colleagues - i understand everything. i like being in strasbourg too. but it doesn't make sense to have two seats. but we can rest assured that, however much we may get upset, france will never agree to the abandonment of the strasbourg seat! and then they say, "that's going to cost 140 million". i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we should not be talking about that, about the 140 million!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 6 july 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the recent forest fires in portugal and spain: instruments and procedures for the eu response to prevention and disaster management (2017/2753 ((rsp)).
i want to explain that in the face of this human catastrophe, i was a little more generous with my speaking time. i hope that the colleagues who will be speaking later will not be angry. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr michael theurer, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on procedures for the settlement of double taxation disputes in the european union (com ((2016) 0686 - c8-0035/2017 - 2016/0338 ((cns)) (a8-0225/2017).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their constructive and intensive cooperation on this report. we have found good compromises. at this late hour in this house we are raising an important issue which affects many businesses, but also private citizens in europe, namely the issue of double taxation. we have been working in various committees here, above all, to close tax loopholes, to eliminate aggressive tax avoidance models, because we do not accept that ordinary citizens pay their taxes, but large international companies do not. at the same time, however, this house is also concerned that taxes on the same income or capital should not be paid twice. we therefore do not want double non-taxation or double taxation, and in this context we expressly welcome the initiative of the european commission to present a legislative proposal to this effect. the commission also followed up a resolution of the european parliament of july 2016. in this, the european parliament stated that a clear timeframe for dispute settlement mechanisms is the key to increasing the effectiveness of the existing system. the arbitration convention was difficult to achieve in a compromise between the member states. it is now to be replaced by the new proposal from the european commission. as much as we commend the commission, we regret that the council, which is not present in the debate this evening, did not wait for our report to be formally adopted here in the european parliament. the council has already completed its decision-making. we want to express our displeasure at this point. we believe that, even though the european parliament is not obliged to give its consent, it would have been a matter of courtesy to wait until our discussions here are concluded, and we ask the bureau of the house to express this to the council. the report essentially states that we want to improve the dispute settlement procedures, which have been inefficient so far. we want to achieve legal certainty. the 10.5 billion euros at stake at the moment, in over 900 cases, show that this is not a small sum, it can happen to taxpayers that they do not receive binding information with their tax return if they are active in several countries of the european union. we want legal certainty here, we want a procedure which ensures that citizens do not have to spend years and years fighting costly legal disputes. it is therefore good that there is a specific proposal which now obliges member states to set up a dispute settlement procedure for citizens. i would have liked to see a permanent committee set up here too, so that experts from the tax administrations could be permanently seconded by the member states. the other groups were unfortunately unable to reach a decision on this, but at least we have put forward a joint proposal which includes the fact that the time limits now contained in the council proposal should be significantly reduced again: one year instead of two years, six months instead of one year. we therefore want the citizen to be informed more quickly whether his complaint will be accepted at all, whether it is justified. we believe it is totally unacceptable that taxpayers and companies have to wait for years to be told whether their complaint against double taxation is valid or not.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, as the special rapporteurs on taxation 1 and 2, i welcome the fact that you have reaffirmed here the need for binding tax rules to stop aggressive tax avoidance. in particular, the ccb/ccb is crucial. the debate has shown that small and mediumsized enterprises in particular suffer from double taxation and that it is therefore necessary for the functioning and fair competition of the dispute settlement mechanism discussed here to be put in place. the important thing is that a taxpayer who lodges a complaint is not dealt with during this period. it is equally important that decisions are published in full. however, if a complainant fears that trade, business or commercial secrets are involved, the authorities concerned should delete the sensitive parts of the decision accordingly. finally, as a parliament, we would like to ask you, commissioner, and the commission as a whole, to ensure that this right step forward does not stop there, but that, in the appropriate evaluation of the directive, the scope of the directive is extended, for example to indirect taxes, income tax, inheritance tax or taxation of occupational pensions. there are also problems with crossborder tax rulings, and in this sense we believe that the present draft law is a great step forward, but it cannot yet be the end point in terms of citizenship in the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 6 july 2017.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the opinion of the court of justice of the european union of 16 may 2017 on the eu-singapore free trade agreement, by bernd lange, daniel caspary, david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000057/2017 - b8-0323/2017) - (2017/2739(rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already done so. you said it, madam president: on 16 may, the court of justice, in response to a commission request, ruled on whether and how a trade agreement should be ratified, on the competence of the european union and on the competence of the member states. the saying is quite clear: almost everything is eu competence: services, transport services, intellectual property issues, of course market opening, public procurement and also the issue of sustainability and workers' rights. the ecj has said that workers' rights are an integral part of trade agreements. i found that very gratifying. two things were excluded as national competence: the issue of investments if they are very extensive, portfolio investments and investment dispute settlement mechanisms if they do not exploit national legal systems in particular. that's what it's all about. and now 50 days have passed and i have not heard from the european commission. it is important to know how our partners should react to this and, of course, how the citizens should react to who has to decide on trade policy in the future. the commission is playing submarine, it is going under. there are actually clear options that can be discussed. one option is to continue as before, with all the problems associated with it, as we have seen in the debate on the canada-ceta agreement, with many twists and many ambiguities, until a process that will take several years to ratify. do we want that? i don't think so, actually. or the second option: you separate the trade part with the elements i just outlined where the court of justice said this is eu jurisdiction from an investment agreement, which is then mixed jurisdiction and has to be ratified by the eu member states and their parliaments. so two agreements. that'll make it clear. and the process is transparent and efficient and fast. or you can say: if the criteria of the european court of justice are such that only direct investment is eu jurisdiction, then you simply leave out portfolio investment, and if it is so that an investment court only comes into eu jurisdiction when all national remedies have been exhausted, then you just make it mandatory, so you meet the requirements of the european court of justice and pack it into an agreement. that's one way to do it. i think we really need to have that on the table now, which options we actually want to pursue. i tend to be more of a middle-of-the-road kind of guy, so i'm going to separate this, but that's something that we have to discuss. i would like to know what the commission has been thinking about in the last 50 days. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the japanese, but that we should be concerned about the japanese. then there are negotiations with mexico, mercosur and chile, etc. i think that the partners must have clarity, and above all our citizens must have clarity. that is why i am anxious to hear your answer.
mr. writer! i think the last word in this debate has not yet been said. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not this marrakesh treaty is a great step forward for the blind and visually impaired who are otherwise unable to read printed matter. for years, we have had a situation where the hunger for books for the blind and visually impaired could not be satisfied. the marrakesh treaty is supposed to put an end to this. the market is so small, it hasn't really paid off for publishers. so publishers are not really threatened by this mandatory barrier, but for the blind and visually impaired, this possibility is a very big step forward. i am pro-copyright i am not one of those who want to abolish or significantly limit copyright but in this case i think that this limit is absolutely justified. there may be some minor restrictions for publishers. but for the blind and visually impaired, it's such an advantage that they can finally have access to books, to other works that they can exchange in europe and also internationally. so this is really a humanitarian action, and it's a clear action for cultural diversity, including for people with disabilities. that is why we are so determined to ratify this treaty as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the implementation of the marrakesh treaty is long overdue, and today it is finally here. access to published works for blind, visually impaired or reading-impaired people is facilitated in the european union, thus ensuring cultural participation. we are facilitating both intra-union access and cross-border exchanges, and i hope that member states will act swiftly in implementation and application. the s&d group in particular was concerned that we had a short implementation period and that we could live with 12 months. good thing there's no commercial availability check. this test would have significantly reduced the availability and accessibility of the works. and finally, it is good news that the legislation will also include digital formats, and thus be future-proof. we will also be following very closely the commission's report on the possible extension of the scope of application, with a view to possibly including more works.
a writer. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, the human rights situation in china has unfortunately worsened again in recent years, especially since xi jinping became president. liu xiaobo has been awarded the nobel peace prize for his advocacy of human rights, the separation of powers, the rule of law and the protection of minorities. his arrest and long 11 years of imprisonment were always wrong just as his wife's house arrest was always wrong and pure harassment by the chinese government. liu xiaobo is very ill now. we demand his immediate release from prison. he has not been released yet, he has only been transferred to a hospital. we demand that he be able to meet with his friends and his lawyers and that he be able to travel and that he be able to choose where he wants to be treated. this is a clear political call to the chinese government, and it is a clear humanitarian obligation, to not subject such a gravely ill person to this terrible detention any longer. i also demand that this issue be raised at the g20 summit in hamburg.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. liu xiaobo, the nobel peace prize winner, has been sentenced to 11 years in prison for speaking his mind freely for no other reason. his wife liu xia, who has not been convicted of any crime, has been kept under house arrest for years. liu xiaobo and liu xia now that he has terminal liver cancer want to be allowed to leave the country so that they can perhaps spend the last few months in their own control taking care of their health. we all appeal to the chinese leadership to allow this. there must be a limit to the unforgiveness and the ruthlessness!
a writer. the commission is not since president pierre nkurunziza announced in april 2015 that he would seek another term, which is not allowed by burundi's constitution, burundi has been mired in a spiral of violence and disregard for civil and human rights. the opposition is being brutally suppressed, thousands of people have already been murdered, tens of thousands have been forced to flee within the country, and more than 400 000 burundians have fled to neighbouring countries, threatening the stability of the region. the burundian authorities refuse to engage in dialogue with the international community and with the forces of society in their own country. on the contrary, the independent international commission of inquiry of the united nations in burundi found that there is ample evidence of widespread human rights violations and abuse of power in burundi, especially by the youth organization of the president's party, imbonerakure, but also by the burundian military, which is all the more serious, as the eu also pays burundian soldiers in the framework of the african union mission in somalia. all measures - including further sanctions - must be taken to increase pressure on president nkurunziza and the burundian authorities to finally open up to dialogue.
member of the commission. – madam president, i share your frustration. to the frustration of many, the situation in burundi is essentially unchanged, with no improvement in any of the key areas that would allow a return to normality, in particular as regards human rights, civil society, the media, disarmament, and justice. in may, the council therefore agreed that there was currently no basis for changing the article 96 decision. at the same time, we are continuing to receive reports of serious abuses and violence by security services and militias. more than 400 000 people have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. the government remains in denial about the state of the country and is not letting united nations human rights investigators have access, despite the fact that burundi is itself a member of the un human rights council. it is possible that the situation in burundi might become even more polarised unless the authorities open up to a genuinely inclusive dialogue, observing the principles of the arusha agreement, and take practical steps to reduce tension. the european union will continue to reach out to encourage heads of state in the region to bring their influence to bear, as a matter of urgency, with a view to speeding up the mediation process. this should help to create the necessary conditions, in particular in the areas of human rights and political space, for elections to be held in 2020, thus fully complying with the arusha peace agreement and the constitution. the european union has repeatedly stated that it is ready to respond to progress reached in president mkapa’s mediation, acting under the article 96 decision. the absence of the rule of law and the resulting adverse impact on human rights and freedoms – as well as on the already very poor economic and social indicators – have led to an alarming deterioration in the living conditions of the population. the european union will continue to alleviate the population’s plight through direct support, with a focus on building resilience by supporting basic livelihoods (agriculture and nutrition actions) and improving access to basic social services such as health care. an additional package of eur 95 million has recently been approved. in addition, the eu supports – through the african peace facility – the african union human rights observers and military experts in burundi and we will be seeking to enhance their role on the ground. last but not least, we also support the needs of the thousands of burundian refugees in the region. uganda, for example, is hosting around 35 000 burundian refugees, among others. i was in uganda to represent the european union at the solidarity summit convened by un secretary—general antónio guterres and there i announced eu emergency assistance of eur 85 million for the whole refugee and idp package. (applause)
the president received the following amendments and names from the s&d group: the committee on budgets: john howarth replaces clare moodythe committee on economic and monetary affairs: wajid khanthe subcommittee on security and defence: brando benifei replaces goffredo maria bettinithe delegation for relations with the arabian peninsula: wajid khanthe delegation to the cariforum-eu parliamentary committee: john howarth replaces david martinis there any comment? that's not the case. the appointments are confirmed. mr fox, may i ask you to speak on the rules of procedure?
i am not going to go into the details of the procedure.
i would like to thank mr lópez-istúriz white very much. i would have appreciated help in finding the appropriate rule for this important matter.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the epp tabled an oral amendment to paragraph 16. at the end of the paragraph it says: is concerned about the recent seizure of the churches in the region of diyarbakir, and we would like to add the following: urges the government to return them to their rightful owners. this oral amendment has been discussed with the rapporteur, mrs kati piri, and she agrees with it. so i'm asking for your approval.
mr batten, i have to say that i am very pleased. i would like to make a few comments on the report. i have no say in the matter. i then closed the vote and gave you the floor. it's the standard practice. i am sorry, but i cannot vote on your report at this time. but i think the reaction of the house has shown that most of them are coming along. (applause) before the vote on amendment no 10:
mr tarabella, the services tell me that with the adoption of amendment no 64 amendment no 74 is finished.
mr coburn, thank you for this important contribution.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau request under rule 130b of the rules of procedure, which was tabled by ms monika smolková, ms olga sehnalová, mr pavel poc, mr eric andrieu, ms hilde vautmans, mr brian hayes, mr lynn boylan, mr petras auštrevičius, ms karoline graswander-hainz, mr alfred sant, mr petri sarvamaa, mr momchil nekov, mr bogusław liberadzki, mr marian harkin, mr stanislav polčák, mr boris zala, mr pirkko ruohonen-lerner, mr matt carthy, mr martina anderson, mr liadh ní riada, mr branislav škripek, mr bronis rėop, mr anna záborská, mr miroslav mikolders, mr nessa chášik, mr biljana, mr jiří pospíšil, mr luke flanagan, mr maria šravka, mr maria dubim, mr vladimír maňka, mr ulrike sküller, mr kate konepařik, mr ivanka pléšek, mr ivanka, mr marian harkin, mr stanislav polčák, mr boris zala, mr pirkko, mr pirkko, mr pirkko pirkko, mr pirkko, mr pirkko, mr pirkko, mr pirkko, mr pirkko, mr pirkko, mr mr mr pirkko, mr mr mr pirkko, mr mr mr pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr. pirkko, mr
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am sure, commissioner, that you will do everything you can to prevent minced meat from entering the eu, because we know that nothing less than the health of the european population is at stake. but the brazilian canned meat scandal has once again made it clear that the trade in and consumption of meat is a potential source of danger to people, to consumers. i am surprised that we are talking about this meat scandal today and not about what has been decidedly different in this country for decades in relation to meat and feed production. the brazilian rainforests are being destroyed for pastureland and for the cultivation of genetically modified soybeans and maize for animal feed. indigenous peoples like the guarani-kaiowá have been and are being driven from their habitat and even killed. there is a relentless campaign of destruction against nature and genocide of these indigenous peoples. but that is not the only reason why a ban on imports is being considered as a sanction, because without the feed from brazil, european farmers could close their pig, chicken and cow farms. that's the real scandal! in recent decades, thousands of indigenous people in brazil have lost their lives, starved to death, or even been shot by paramilitary units of big corporations, corrupt politicians, and wealthy cattle and soy barons. the fact that there are a few brazilian slaughterhouses selling their disgusting meat is a piece of cake compared to this. i would appeal to you to make this problem a real focus of your work.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their suggestions and remarks. may i start with ms urszula krupa, i do not see her in the chamber but i would like to respond to her personally. the possibility of introducing bans was mentioned. colleagues, this is not about a trade war and it is not about protectionism. it is about possibilities to respect the rule of law, to justify our steps, to introduce our official control systems, and to guarantee food safety standards, and of course to follow possibilities to enforce our checks and to see how to address those issues – but it is not about unjustified bans. i know that some like to be protectionist, but this is not about protectionism. it is about possibilities to help the brazilian authorities and also to have reliable official control systems and we are cooperating in this field. we will see how things develop and see in which direction we should go. ok, if we do not achieve results we will, as i mentioned, introduce much stricter measures, but all are underway and through our cooperation we have the possibilities to address those issues. it is not about the possibility of once again introducing some unjustified measures, because that is not a european union value. the commission is committed to ensuring that imports from brazil, and indeed imports from all non-eu countries, are safe – have no doubts about that. the commission is also very sensitive to the concerns of parliament in this respect and to keeping you fully informed of developments. today i have updated you on the impact of the effective measures we put in place at the very beginning of this crisis. as you know, we reacted immediately. from the outset, the commission has reacted quickly and decisively in full transparency to ensure that our consumers are not exposed to unacceptable risk. some of you mentioned the problem of salmonella within the eu. we have very strict rules. we have the rapid alert mechanism; we react immediately. speaking of salmonella, we know all about the painful case in croatia but we reacted immediately to find out from which establishment it came, and of course we know very well that pathogenic strains of salmonella must be addressed at operator level. we are trying to provide more measures to address these issues. some countries in the eu have declared they are salmonella-free, but only a few. we will see how to move forward and encourage best practice, and of course to achieve better results, have no doubts about that. brazil must accept its responsibility to ensure the safety of its exports. indeed, i have communicated this point to my counterpart, both in person and in writing. we have good collaboration with the brazilian authorities at the moment. mr maggi has accepted the additional measures requested. however, we will maintain the enforced controls at eu borders and the commission services will carry out a follow-up audit in brazil by the end of this year, as i mentioned. this audit will examine all measures put in place by the brazilian authorities to rectify the deficiencies identified in may. if brazil fails to implement the necessary corrective measures, the commission will not hesitate to take stronger action, as i mentioned. this is not simply an empty threat. rather, it is a reflection of our overarching commitment to ensuring that our consumers are protected from unacceptable risk in all cases. some of you mentioned problems with double quality food issues but that is not about food safety, it is not about this situation. someone also mentioned rotten meat. please, once again, present us with facts because we have a strict system. we know very well that all our countries, all our member states, must have registered all those facts. if you have new evidence, please show us. we will react immediately, but we have our rapid alert system and at the moment they have no facts because we are sending those messages into society. it is also very dangerous to send messages that are not well assessed because then society has a lot of rumours. this is very dangerous. it is against our possibilities to have trust in our food safety system, so i ask you to please present evidence. we are ready to react immediately, have no doubt about that. should there be any important developments on this file my services and i stand ready to discuss with you and to update you on the state of play at a plenary, or at committee level, or in writing.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau's request for an eu army under rule 130b of the rules of procedure (o000044/2017 2017/2760 ((rsp)) (b8-0322/2017) by mrs beatrix von storch, on behalf of the efdd group, to the commission.
a writer. the commission has already done so. there are even fewer people in the chamber today than on tuesday when mr juncker was already getting upset. i can kind of understand that. the answers you give to our questions are prepared by a commissioner who is not responsible. you are not responsible. they are read out as prepared statements prepared by an official. the answers are not given to us in advance because you say you are coming here anyway. but if you're just reading statements anyway, then you can actually give us the statement in advance. then we can discuss it. what we criticize: the commission's answers are basically meaningless and they too often avoid the heart of the question. the commission is not going to be controlled by parliament. but i'm not giving up hope, of course, and that's why i have questions. firstly, does the commission really support the creation of an intervention army to carry out military operations in neighbouring countries ? why has this community of values, europe, not learned from the efforts and mistakes of the united states? secondly, when juncker talks about defending the eu's values with an eu army, does that mean that we want to introduce democratic structures in libya by military means, as the us does, or gender mainstreaming in morocco? and thirdly, why did mr juncker speak in march 2015 about the possibility of deploying an eu army in a member state? against who? against the government? against the government of poland or hungary, for example? or should austrian units shoot at insurgents in slovenia? i'm a little short on imagination, but maybe you can help us out. my opinion: the eu army is the last thing we need. there is no reason to build a double structure alongside nato. nato must remain a defence alliance. but it is a myth that it has been the eu that has secured peace so far. that is what nato has always been and that is what it should remain. the peace we have in europe is threatened by an eu army. they want to mark the strong man against russia. but we don't need that, because that's what nato is for. we do not need dual structures, and the eu army is of course also endangering the neutrality of five member states of the european union: austria, finland, ireland, malta and sweden. you and many other governments - including those in germany - want the eu army because you want to take another step towards the united states of europe. they are making the same mistake they made with the euro. the single currency was also an economic failure and a failure to achieve political union. that's pretty obviously failed. the euro crisis has caused us a great deal of suffering - especially the greeks, but also elsewhere. and now you want a common army to further force political union! what crises will this cause! war with russia? they are creating structures without a european consensus. such an army is as useless as the euro. the euro has already proved it and the euro was all about money and not human lives. please stop trying to centralize military resources. europe can defend itself well with nato and decentralized structures. we need a centralized army only to attack, and we do not want that, nor do we want to build the eu as a military power that intervenes in other countries. that's the exact opposite of what we want. we want a peaceful europe that protects itself but does not intervene in other countries.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to repeat certain things again because some information can be misleading. you know very well – we all know very well – that our military capacities are in the hands of the member states. they own those capacities and they operate with those capacities. the decision to deploy national army forces remains at national, constitutional level, not at eu level. we are only supporting member states to deepen defence cooperation among themselves and foster a common european perspective. that is all. the eu can only decide to deploy a military operation with the mandate to potentially use armed forces outside the union and with the mandate of the united nations under international law. may i repeat once again this very important article 2 of the treaty on european union, which states: ‘the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. these values are common to the member states in a society in which pluralism, non—discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail.’ these are our cornerstones. the eu is taking concrete steps to strengthen european security and defence – in response to a clear demand by our citizens – and also to contribute to better sharing the burden across the atlantic. it is, of course, important to pay close attention to our strategic communications and to explain to a wider audience what we are doing and trying to achieve, and also what we are not doing. i think it is also very important to say what we are not doing. we are not making an eu army. the european parliament is absolutely critical in relation to delivering on our promise to provide more protection and security for our citizens. we are doing this in the european way – as i like to emphasise – using the european union’s unique mix of instruments, and in partnership wherever possible.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.05 p.m.)
i know there is a lot to be said in these areas.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, a month ago i was walking home from a night out with friends. as i was approaching duisburg main station, a guy came up to me very suddenly from behind, without me seeing him, and grabbed me between my legs. i turned around – i was in complete shock and was outraged – and tried to run after him and scream and curse at him with only one thought in my head: that if i scared him enough, he would not do this to any other woman again in his life. after a couple of blocks, i lost him in the dark and i called the police. the police came straight away with three cars. they interrogated me and asked me if i was feeling fine, and whether i needed psychological support. they called for a search to find this guy and even took my jacket and my dress to find traces. i felt safe again. they brought me home and i felt that i was taken seriously at this time. i know that i owe this police reaction to the debates that we had in the last month around the istanbul convention. that is why i now want to give my thanks to all the women in this chamber, and also in the member states and all over the world, who have fought for this to happen. but still, even though i had this positive experience, there are tens of thousands of women who do not get this treatment when they are harassed or face sexualised violence. they still face being ridiculed and not being taken seriously. without the millions of women who fought for this convention and for other steps that were taken against violence against women, this would not have been possible. so without these pioneers and without documents like the istanbul convention, the fight against violence against women is still not a given. the fact that i could feel safe and that we are struggling to have every single woman in the world feeling safe needs to be our motivation to continue and to exceed the istanbul convention in its full scope and not to let one day pass without fighting against violence against women. so we need to take this step now. this will certainly not be the last step, but a very important and historic step on the way to a society without violence against women. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. dear evelyn, i am particularly pleased that you are chairing today, because i know that you have been working on this issue for decades and fighting against violence against women in europe. i thank you very much for that. i therefore say 'for decades', to refer again to the previous speaker. if he thinks that the issue of violence against women has only recently come to europe with the issue of refugees, then he has probably been in a different europe than i have been in the last decades. the issue of violence, independent of refugees, has been a topic of discussion in europe for decades. i bring the impatience with me today, you can hear it in my voice. you hear in my voice the impatience that it has to stop, that we have to stop talking about it, but we have to do something, that something happens. something has to happen to identify and punish perpetrators, to help victims, to make it clear that sexual violence also occurs in christian marriages. i don't need to look at the sharia, i just need to look at what's going on in my own bedroom. it's called looking, it's called changing something. commissioner, you are in good hands with this matter. please, please, please, bring something forward in europe!
all crimes must be prosecuted. i think that is clear, that is normal in the rule of law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a shocking number of women report having been victims of domestic violence. in addition, in recent years, with the influx of islamic cultures, there have been new forms of violence, such as female genital mutilation, honour killings, but also polygamy and child marriage - all forms of violence and oppression that are actually banned in my country and yet are often part of everyday life for women and girls in parallel societies. the fact that this is a threat to all women in central europe is shown by recent court rulings in germany, which shockingly place a higher value on the cultural character of the male offender than on women's rights. but it is tragic that a completely failed immigration policy - especially in my country - is exacerbating the problems for women. on my way to hamburg airport today, i drove through several districts where the vast majority of women are in niqabs and burkas and young women in miniskirts or jeans were virtually unseen. for me, this is a clear sign that all repression must be counteracted. for these reasons i welcome the istanbul agreement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the commissioner and the two rapporteurs very warmly. it is really very important that the eu now also supports the istanbul convention. all member states should not only sign but also ratify. that has been said before. and it is also true, as has been said, that the signing and ratification alone will not eliminate violence against women in the world. but we have to do something in all areas. it has also been said that this is only supposed to be a matter of concern in europe since we have the refugees. that's completely wrong. it's always been there. but through the refugees, we have a special group of particularly vulnerable women, namely the refugee women. i therefore think it is very good that the maltese presidency of the council has already taken care of violence prevention and pregnancy. in germany, we have a project of violence prevention for refugee women and children and migrant women, which is supported by the federal government. for this is also what it means to bring in the men the men who exercise this authority and to try to train them accordingly, so that they may leave it. so there is no cultural cloak over the men, as the colleague said. and that's a good thing.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today and to take part in your deliberations on the proposal on the european union emissions trading system for aviation. i appreciate the hard work of the rapporteur ms girling on this proposal and would like to thank her for her efforts. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their valuable contributions and their support for a swift and a smooth process. aviation greenhouse gas emissions are growing sharply and clearly have the potential to put at risk the achievement of the climate targets we committed to in paris two years ago if they are not adequately addressed. the european union has taken the lead in addressing these emissions by covering them under its emissions trading system and is also working hard at the international civil aviation organization (icao) for effective global measures. precisely, this commission proposal we are debating today follows the adoption by the icao assembly in october last year of a resolution on the so-called corsia (carbon offsetting and reduction scheme), a global measure to offset aviation emissions beyond 2020 levels after many years of efforts and following up on the paris agreement sealed a year before. as we already recognised, this was an important and welcome first development to address aviation emissions globally, despite being below the european union ambition. we must acknowledge, however, that a lot of work is still needed to make corsia operational by 2021, namely, agreeing the corsia rule book in the form of standards and recommended practices presently under negotiation in montreal and then the adoption of national measures for its concrete implementation. the commission proposal duly takes this dynamic context into account. first, to facilitate the operationalisation of corsia, it maintains the intra—eea scope for aviation from 2017 onwards. on the other hand, the proposal foresees a new review once there is more clarity as regards international developments for the operationalisation of the global scheme, namely, icao rules and how they will be implemented. and finally, it contains an empowerment to adopt delegated acts on monitoring, reporting and verification of emissions in order that the european union is ready to implement corsia in that regard. i want to remind you all of the imperative need for swift progress on this file, paving the way for a final text before the end of the year. if the amendment to the directive does not enter into force by early 2018, the full scope, covering all flights to and from third countries, will kick off again, and this situation will be problematic. i would like to underline as well that, in our view, extension of the intra-eea scope, combined with a review, will allow the european union to rightly deal with the situation we will face in the coming years. on the one hand, we need to facilitate international developments and get ready to implement corsia. on the other hand, we will have to discuss the future rules for the european union ets in a context where corsia becomes a reality. i am glad to see that the report you are voting on today shares this basic approach of continuing the intra-eea scope, to then undertake a new review once there is more clarity on international developments. let me, however, provide some comments on two key aspects of the rapporteur’s final proposal which raise some concerns on our side. first, i would like to warn against an automatic return to the full scope right after 2020 in the absence of a new review. that threat could create difficulties with third countries which are now positively involved in icao negotiations and are a priori committed to corsia implementation. let’s face it. icao has been given little time to complete the negotiation process and it will need to be followed by domestic implemented measures. we in the european union are well equipped since it will have to take place through the ets, but others have much more to develop domestically. so one cannot exclude some delay in the operationalisation, but this would not by itself be enough in our view to trigger an automatic return to full scope and thereby lose years of efforts in the icao. in addition, the automatic snap-back to full scope as soon as in 2021 would put the european union in a difficult and time-constrained situation again when we undertake the necessary review, making it more difficult to duly take into account and discuss all the intricacies of the post-2020 period. even in the best case scenario, let us remember that compliance with the so-called ‘pilot phase’ obligations will only happen in 2024, at least if all goes as planned and there are no delays. we may need, therefore, some time to have a clear picture of how corsia performs and delivers. we have to bear in mind as well that in the context of the future review we can always decide to go back to a wider scope or cover certain routes to third countries in the light of the international situation at that moment. but this is something that would deserve appropriate analysis and decision at the right time once we know whether and how corsia is implemented. my second comment is on the rules for the period up to 2020. we understand the willingness to strengthen the system and bring it closer to the regime for stationary installations. that said, our view is that these aspects should be addressed in the next review, taking due account of the need for aviation to contribute its fair share at european union level. anticipating this now could be premature. in that context, we welcome the amendments aiming at better framing the review. we believe that this is the right way of addressing some of the concerns over the future regime. the commissioner is encouraged by the quick progress achieved on this file and is confident that an agreement on this proposal could be reached this year. i look forward to continuing to work with you on the ets aviation proposal and bringing it to a successful conclusion.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not the committee on industry has dealt with the subject and broadly supports the commission's position. we have tabled a number of amendments, but we fully support the main point, namely that we want to prevent distortions of competition to the detriment of european aviation and therefore rely on international agreements. we are also against the old system being reintroduced in 2020 if the negotiations do not move forward quickly enough. the committee on industry supports the broad outline. however, we also want to ensure that the commission does not simply adopt a delegated act when implementing the further legislation, but that parliament remains fully involved in proposing the details. and we want to see if, in the event of failure, corsia can possibly come into force at the same time as the european system. this is an experiment, i don't know if it'll work. but if we increase the pressure, this report can bring a temporary breakthrough for the european aviation industry and at the same time increase the pressure on the international negotiations. the committee on industry adopted its opinion by 51 votes in favour, 5 against and 0 abstentions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the last few days, we have had a sad opportunity to talk about climate change. you can't say that individual natural disasters are caused directly by climate change, but the floods in south asia and the hurricanes in the caribbean and the united states show that we have a problem here, because all the serious researchers say that these events are going to increase if we don't do something about climate change. and now they say that in air transport it is only 2%, or in the eu it is only 3%. but firstly, the share is growing, and secondly, you have to put that in proportion: if you add up the emissions of the 129 countries that have committed themselves in paris - and that includes the member states of the european union and other industrialized countries - you get the same value as international air traffic. so we have a problem here, and that's why we have to deal with it, preferably internationally. but this parliament has already spoken about corsia a few months ago and said: 'this is disappointing, it is not yet what we need to really tackle the problem. but to restore the original range of application now would destroy this delicate plant and would not be feasible. i would therefore like to thank julie girling for her work and for the report which i consider to be well balanced in many respects. we as the epp would like to see a more balanced approach. for example, in amendment no 36 we have proposed a compromise between envi on the one hand and itre and tran on the other. i would ask the honourable members to follow the line of the epp, and then we will have a good compromise. finally, a word on amendment no 47: this is about brexit. we do not want a hard brexit, of course. we want the uk to remain in the single market if possible, and in the ets if at all. but we have to be prepared for what we're hearing right now, which is not very positive. that is why we want to make preparations here with amendment no 47 and ask you to support us there too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's a little unusual for a liberal to start a leftist colleague's argument. but i must say that what merja kyllönen said, i can fully underline. merja said: we need an efficient, environmentally friendly, global - global she did not say, i added - system, and it is worth fighting for. i think we all see that as something that we need -- including for aviation, for emissions -- right now, given what's happening to people in the caribbean, with bad things. that's a climate change effect that we have to fight against. the eu has been at the forefront of an eu ets system for 10 years and has thus triggered this global discussion. but we have learned that there is no point in forcing others to do so. there was the moscow declaration in 2012, where even obama and the us congress and russia resisted the eu dictating how things should go. we have to see now that the best way to help the climate is to have a global system. i am afraid, as is the commissioner, that we are putting that at risk if we try too hard to put the other thumbs on the screw now. that is why i am in favour of the itre and tran variants.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am a little surprised that the focus of attention in aviation today is on one system of reducing co2 emissions, namely the trading of allowances, although there are a number of other options available in aviation that have been used in the past. so please let's not lie to each other that without ets, nothing would work in aviation. new engine technologies, new aircraft with completely new wing technologies that are quieter and lower emission: a european airspace would go a long way towards reducing our co2 emissions. or investments in infrastructure, as i am now experiencing in frankfurt: in the past, you could admire frankfurt from all sides when you flew in. the construction of a new runway has reduced this number considerably. all of these are measures that reduce co2 emissions. we must also be careful that we europeans are not so much an example that no one wants to follow. and that is why we have stopped the clock, because the third countries have not wanted to follow suit and because we wanted to impose on them a system which does not really help to reduce emissions in relation to the measures i have mentioned. so it's right to keep stopping the clock until everyone is on board, but of course also to make an effort to get everyone on board. that is the approach we have taken in the committee on transport and i hope that it will also find the necessary majority in the votes tomorrow. we must take responsibility, but internationally.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this evening we are once again discussing europe's contribution to combating climate change. it is about europe's contribution to the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change - all this in the light of an american president who has resigned from the same and in the light of the events of the last few days. forests play a prominent role in climate protection. sustainable forest management is absolutely positive. simply put, the forest is everyone's business. what happened since paris? we have started to implement the paris agreement on climate change, to bring it to life. the forest and its enormous contribution to combating global warming play a major role in this. that is why we are debating lulucf here tonight. this abbreviation hides a system of accounting for the capture and release of co2 in forestry and agriculture. what does the forest contribute? in order to reliably represent the contribution of forests to climate change, we need to have robust and reliable accounting rules for co2 uptake and emissions. the european union is a pioneer in this field and has a very important international role model. it is the only way to make other countries - brazil and others - do the same. the eu is under particular scrutiny, particularly in view of the world climate conference in bonn in november this year. in the lulucf sector, there is no reduction potential, but on the contrary, there is a huge potential to counteract climate change. the performance of our forests is absolutely magnificent and must be communicated positively accordingly. active and sustainable forest management must be designed to be good for the forest, the climate and, last but not least, the forest owner. this law must not be allowed to demonize that. it is through farsighted and responsible management that our forests have grown to an area the size of portugal in the last 25 years. that's nine million acres. why does the forest have a double positive effect on climate? a tree absorbs co2 from the atmosphere and stores it as it grows. together, our forests absorb 10% of the eu's total greenhouse gas emissions. secondly, the forest provides wood to strengthen the bioeconomy - wood used for example in house building for furniture and in energy production. as regards my report, as has been made clear, i very much welcome the european commission's proposal, but i have made some changes, particularly in the establishment of the so-called forest reference value. i have changed the reference period to 2000 to 2012, changed the role of the member states in relation to the commission, introduced flexibility accordingly, doubled the amount of forestry loans and now, above all, i have tabled a motion for a resolution in the plenary seeking to align the reference period with the future policies adopted in the member states. i think this is a balanced compromise which deserves to be a majority in the vote on wednesday. i would like to thank everyone: the commission, the staff, the shadow rapporteurs for the intensive and good cooperation over the last few months, and i look forward to the discussion.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. all sectors must be involved in our efforts to combat climate change, including agriculture and forestry. so it may seem surprising at first glance that we don't have emission reduction targets here, as we do in industry and other sectors. but it is because sustainable forestry is already contributing to climate protection. forest management is a positive thing from a climate protection point of view and from many other points of view, and we want to acknowledge this contribution. at the same time, we must be careful not to resort to booking tricks. it's not easy to calculate the whole thing so that everything is really clean. and we also do not want to set a bad example for other regions, other countries in the world. if you fully acknowledge the forest sector, then in a country like brazil, you could say, you don't need to burden your power plants, your steel plants and many other facilities with any kind of climate targets at all, and that would be bad for the climate. but it would also be bad for the competitiveness of the european economy if we were too generous. that's why we need a good compromise. the effort must be appreciated, but at the same time we need a limit. i am very much in favour of the commission's proposal for a reference period. but i ask you, like norbert lins, to support the epp amendment, that we should be a little more flexible in maintaining the target.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr linz first. the commission's proposal has been improved. of course, agriculture and forestry must play their part. but we have to look at what kind of agriculture we are going to include. intensive farming is more of a problem. agriculture that continues to use bogs intensively, for example, is also a problem, or agriculture that contributes to the destruction of grassland. this also releases huge amounts of co2. the same applies, of course, to forestry. only sustainable forestry can help to solve the problem. a forestry system based on fast-growing trees, such as the eucalyptus in southern europe, does not contribute to climate protection. we have to be very discriminating. so it's important that we support sustainable systems. there is one thing we must not do: we cannot use the lulucf model as a clearing house and expect things to be fine in other areas, while emissions are not reduced in, for example, transport. that's not what lulucf is for. we must separate this cleanly and not use lulucf as a settlement.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened carefully to the debate today and i am encouraged by the engagement of the members of this house. i appreciate your commitment to maintaining the european union’s role as a path-breaker in the area of international climate action. following the debate i would like to clarify two issues. the first one relates to what mr brannen said. it is correct that the commission proposal mentioned the term ‘intensity’. however it was never meant to be a static historical value. forest management will have to flexibly adapt to the age—class structure of the forest and this means that the intensity will not necessarily stay constant over time but might change in a forward—looking forest reference level. the second one relays that the commission is very much aware of the specific situation of the forest-richest member states. they have a particular potential for a flourishing bio-economy and this can help in replacing emissions from many sectors, especially through harvested wood products and also biofuels, while at the same time maintaining, or even raising, the forest sinks. this is very much appreciated and will be acknowledged in the accounting system. finally allow me to state that discussions on the two non-ets proposals have progressed well in the council and the technical work is nearly finalised. i would like to thank you for taking this important step in parliament, which provides crucial political momentum for this proposal. i am convinced that the council, under the leadership of the estonian presidency, will be able to move forward swiftly before the next climate conference in bonn in november. the european union, as a driving force behind the high ambition coalition cannot come to bonn empty-handed.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for the lively and controversial discussion we have had in the last hour. i want to go over a few phrases. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i think we are at least partly mistaken in thinking that, to put it simply, less logging means more climate protection. that's definitely not what science has been telling me for the last few months. no, it's about a smart approach, it's about the question: when is the best time to chop wood? because it's clear that a tree can take in more and more co2 for a long time, but then it reaches a zenith and then from that point on it can take in less. to put it a little more bluntly, a national park that is primarily designed to ensure more biodiversity is certainly not a forest that protects the climate, but the opposite: you can simply say that a national park is a climate change-maker in the long run, because it can of course absorb less co2 in the long run. and then bioeconomy: the paris agreement on climate change is also very clear that we need to increase this. so that means we have to try to get more forest. it also raises the question of what age group. the situation differs from one member state to another. the commissioner has presented it. i am therefore in doubt whether i can significantly increase my wood cutting, but still have a lowering effect, or even a higher lowering effect in the long term, if i cut the right age range. it would therefore be right and good to support the epp amendment in the plenary on wednesday and thus take a realistic approach. and then, if we have a majority here on wednesday - which i wish - the council will be in charge. i believe that it must reach a conclusion very quickly so that we can enter into the debate, the trilogue, in order to improve the good commission proposal in the end so that everyone can live with this compromise in the end.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank all the members for their cooperation. it was a difficult birth in some respects, but in the end we had a strong majority in the afco committee for this report, and i hope that we will continue to do so in the plenary. it is important to deal with the question of democracy in the european institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in more and more areas, democracy depends on our being able to establish decisionmaking at european level only at international level. the ability to make decisions is no longer just national, as we see that more and more issues are ultimately global, or at least continental. it is therefore crucial that we take citizens along on this journey towards greater european and international democracy. and to do this we must also ask ourselves the question of participation, because only through both together - participation and capacity to act - do we achieve legitimacy. now europe has done a great deal in many areas to show that democracy with strong participation and transparency is possible internationally and not just nationally. we are already showing a lot, especially here in the european parliament, but we are less in the newspapers. this is why our effective transparency and accountability is not yet fully developed for many citizens. and we should aim to get the most out of it, in terms of transparency, accountability and integrity. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we want the rules on lobbying transparency to apply not only to the commissioners and the highest officials, but to other staff. we want to see that in the area of trade policy, what was started with ttip is finally applied effectively to all trade agreements, that there is more transparency. in expert groups, the minutes should also reflect minority views. we need a european legal framework for whistleblowers, and finally, when it comes to the assessment of conflicts of interest in the commission, the commission should no longer appoint its own judges, but in the proposal for a new code of conduct we need independent judges on this issue. and finally, we want a proposal from the european commission so that we can have strong transparency and participation rights for all eu agencies and not, as today, for just a few. but when we make requests to the council and to the commission, we should also look at ourselves critically. what is not working, as unfortunately some colleagues here want, is that we demand strong lobbying transparency from the commission and the council, but say to ourselves: everything here must be based on voluntary action. we need full transparency in parliament, in the eyes of the citizens. and that should ultimately apply to everyone who is here in a role - whether as rapporteur, shadow rapporteur or committee chairman. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. why is this not possible in the european parliament? the commission has gone ahead, and we as a parliament should follow. we have a good opportunity to make this clear at the vote on thursday.
i have to say, madam president, the socialists in this house are in favour of transparency in the representation of interests vis-à-vis the european institutions. we have worked very hard over the past few months with rapporteur sven giegold on this report. thank you for your work, he was tenacious. there has been a lot of resistance, as mr schöpflin has already said, but what we are going to adopt on thursday will bring a lot of progress in the new openness in european politics, for the commission, for this house and hopefully also for the council, because the council is the black box so far, and there really must be a new mobility to open up more. the focus is on the transparency register, which we are really bringing forward again. we are better than many of the member states in this area, and in many cases we are not. we are now saying that no one can come to our house unless they have registered, and we are advising all members not to meet anyone who is not registered. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not compromised.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mr sven giegold in particular for this report, which is absolutely essential for greater transparency in the european institutions. i would like to agree with those who have specifically called for the council of ministers and the governments of the member states in particular to work to ensure that the arguments and the results of the votes and the documents relating to the votes are also put on the table in the council working groups so that journalists are able to report on them. we are in a political union. we are no longer a diplomatic negotiating circle, where you first exchange arguments internally and then, at some point, the public also learns about it. there must be opportunities for influence, and this can only be achieved if the council makes its documents public, its negotiations public. the council has nothing to lose in the future in the legislation of the european union, and only the european parliament should then vote on these questions.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commission for the proposal for a new space strategy and the shadow rapporteurs for the really excellent cooperation on this not insignificant subject. space holds incredible potential for all of us, and we must use it wisely. space is not so far away, but it is now touching our daily lives. a recent example, for those of you who don't know, copernicus data is currently being used in hurricane disaster relief in the caribbean and florida to better help on the ground. but there are many other applications, such as climate change, monitoring co2 or methane emissions, agriculture, fisheries, major construction projects. for example, the bridge between denmark and sweden has been supported by data from european satellites, among others, so that the two ends of the bridge actually meet. modern transport systems are supported, including the navigation system - for which we are still dependent on the united states at the moment - but also connectivity, the development of remote regions for a high-performance internet, to the management of the refugee crisis: all of these can be better managed or even implemented with support from space. this requires a smart strategy of what and how to invest in what areas. the commission's proposals are on the table. we have discussed our report in parliament and have further clarified and extended the proposals. we need a wide use of space data in the european union. we must also promote it in society and in the economy. the communication and training must be improved, because many people are still completely unaware of the possibilities offered by the european union's space programmes. the existing projects must be continued and extended. we need to make better use of the opportunities offered by galileo, egnos and copernicus, not only in the social field but also in the economic field. the use of space data could be significantly increased in the management of maritime, land and air traffic, but it is also possible to make economic use of this data in the development of new applications in the field of start-ups and small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. local authorities should also be encouraged and supported to take advantage of the opportunities offered by eu space activities, for example in urban development, transport planning or disaster management. the eib could finance such projects, but the structural funds could also play a greater role. these tasks will include ensuring that our space factor is globally competitive and receives fair treatment in the market, including in the funding of our programmes. we need a european budget for space policy which cannot be reduced in the future. on the contrary, satellites have a limited lifespan and public investment is currently much higher in the united states, for example. but it is also important to have efficient, pragmatic cooperation between the eu, esa and the member states and to make efficient use of european programmes such as the horizon research programme. the space programmes are civilian programmes, but there can be meaningful synergies, for example, with the european action plan for defence and the fight against terrorism. of course, safety is also important for systems in space, because space debris, an increasing number of satellites, large and small, and cyberattacks can also cause great damage. we need to be more active here. the peaceful use of space requires a strong eu and good international connections. the cooperation between the commission, the council, the european external action service and esa is therefore of great importance. parliament will support this and calls on the commission to provide a concrete timetable for each part of the programme and to develop a communication strategy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think the proposal is very good and i thank the commission and also our rapporteur and the other members for having improved it a little bit. between 6,000 and 8,000 municipalities are expected to receive funding for wi-fi connections. in fact, it is a drop in the bucket. what the hell is this? why are we doing this? the commission has already made a number of proposals. but i think it is very important and right because it is an important political signal that we need a universal internet throughout europe, not just in the big cities but also in smaller regions, in smaller communities and municipalities. that is why i support the proposal. but i would also like to address a second issue today, and not to focus on the 6000 to 8000 municipalities: we have hundreds of thousands of other municipalities that are not receiving funding. i would also like to say, particularly to the commission, that there are initiatives in many governments at home - including my own, in the free state of bavaria. we also support the development of broadband in our country, but we see time and again that the aid law is applied so rigidly in europe - including by the commission - that it takes forever before we can also ensure the development with our own funding. so my request to you today, commissioner, is that you simply ensure that the aid rules are applied in such a way that more can be done on the ground without bureaucracy and that not everything has to be financed from european funds.
the commission has already done so. free wi-fi vouchers in up to 8 000 municipalities across europe very concrete and completely unbureaucratic: wifi4eu is a great example of how europe is also giving more people access to high-speed internet. however, future-proof wi-fi in rural areas can only be achieved if the municipalities themselves are connected to the broadband network, which is also a prerequisite for the survival of industrial enterprises or for modern public services. and that is where i am concerned about germany, because only a paltry 6.6% of households are connected to fibre optic cables. with the new eu communication code, we are now creating the conditions for investing in the networks of the future. if this model is not used and instead a lot of money is poured into old transitional technologies, many regions will be cut off. i hope that wifi4eu is a building block that helps to bring this awareness to life now, across europe. from the end of 2017/beginning of 2018, project proposals can be submitted and i would really like to see a lot of communities involved.
the commission has already done so. the new european regulation on the security of gas supply is preparing europe for future gas crises. the experience of the recent crises and the european commission's stress tests have clearly shown that national measures are no longer sufficient. the principle of solidarity is now applicable. neighbouring member states must now help each other to secure gas supplies to households and social establishments in the event of crises. in addition, for the first time, member states' prevention and emergency plans will have to include regional chapters. in concrete terms, this means that member states must think carefully about how they will cooperate in an emergency even before a crisis occurs. energy efficiency is recognised as a measure to reduce our dependence on energy supplies from third countries. energy efficiency must now be taken into account in the preparation of national prevention plans. the safest and cheapest energy is always the energy that does not need to be produced in the first place.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. they complained that in britain energy companies are foreign-owned or even owned by foreign governments. do you seriously think that the european union has prevented the united kingdom from having shares or ownership in energy companies? and what do you propose the british government to do to get their own energy companies back? i do not think that the eu has prevented the uk from running its own energy companies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank not only mr buzek, who was rapporteur on this subject, but also the whole negotiating team. it was clearly a good cooperation of parliament and i think we have achieved a breakthrough here in that it is a real step towards an energy union. we don't have it yet, but we need it. that a few years ago russia stopped the gas to punish ukraine and hit some eastern european countries, where then the people sat in the cold something like this must not happen again. that is why we really need to see that we can achieve the safest possible gas supply without being too dependent on third countries, which may not be of particular political importance to us. of course, biogas also plays a role, as the finnish colleague said, but we want to rely on renewable energy. if we can get the regional headquarters, that's good too. regional cooperation in gas supply is very important, especially for the transport sector, which i represent, for lng and cng. we need good cooperation for that, and i think we can achieve that quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the reason for this egg scandal was the illegal use of prohibited substances - criminal schemes that must be fought and punished with all the severity. even the best law does not seem to deter enough to actually stop this criminal energy and this fraud. however, we must not become impotent and we must deal with the fipronil scandal. the discussions in the committee on agriculture, in the committee on the environment yesterday and in the plenary today show the seriousness of the subject. the fipronil scandal has shown that the existing rapid alert system for food and feed rasff is not fast enough and not efficient enough. the european early warning system should, however, do exactly what its name suggests: it must give an immediate and europe-wide warning. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is shocking that the competent authorities in one eu country have known for six months that this insecticide was being used illegally, and yet the report was made so late. the consequences would be consumer uncertainty, fraudulent agriculture, enormous economic damage and a lot of negative press. all farms must pay for this loss of confidence and bear the brunt of it. we must now really bring the system forward to the point where we can monitor the flow of goods within europe and actually ensure food security. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, i do believe that we must of course take account of the differences between member states, and food safety is paramount. i am also fully aware of the consequences of such a reporting system for a rat's tail, we have heard it: 600 follow-up warnings, as the commissioner has told us. i do think, however, that the commission, as the highest authority, must obtain information from the member states and then weigh up the extent to which it is ultimately implemented in the system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. there's a scandal in the scandal. many have already said that it takes months for national authorities to react to suspicious moments. that it takes eight weeks for the public to be informed of initial findings is a scandal! but the commission's response has also not been adequate. there must be an obligation for member states to report immediately, especially when health risks are involved. why has the commission not set up a task force to investigate the issue? why is this not put on the agenda of the council of ministers until weeks later? that's not an appropriate response. the commission must react more clearly. and of course, it's also about an agro-industrial system: no sector of agriculture is as industrial as egg production, and that the vulnerability to fraud is higher is clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of fipronil in the european market is not restricted to the manufacture of the product.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear voters, we are discussing rotten eggs in the eu today. trump and putin, meanwhile, are discussing escalating nuclear war with north korea and trying to avert it. peace for our chicken coop - that is the real political ambition of the european union and of juncker and merkel. but this new cross-border food scandal in belgium shows us that the eu is not working - neither in the front nor in the back. the eu wants to regulate and harmonise everything, but the national and european food control authorities are not working, the information methods are not working, the early warning systems are not working either. and now they're saying that maybe the limits aren't set right and maybe the risk is less than we thought. "what now?" the chicken asks. and we say, maybe we'll just cut back on the egg-swallowing and reform the eu from the ground up.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i think that the commission has done a good job in this respect. but the eu's arms exports have been exploding for years. mr nart was right to refer to yemen. i am therefore glad that the report proposes steps to limit this madness. in some places i wish there was more substance, so that we could really make progress in this area. the problem is obvious: as the report points out, the eight criteria are actually part of the legally binding framework for european arms exports and it is european arms exports that are at stake. mr kelam: it is not a question of new criteria. but we must note that almost all countries are in some way seriously breaching these rules - that is the point. in germany, for example - and we're not talking about russia today - studies show that in 2015 alone, more than 4,000 export licenses to 76 countries were found to be in violation of these criteria or to be problematic. in many other eu countries, the situation is hardly better. the report makes detailed proposals on the first aspect only, and is somewhat vague on the other two: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the eight criteria need to be independently verified and sanction mechanisms need to be in place for countries that are notorious for breaking the rules. without these measures, eu export regulations will remain as loose as a fishing net, and european arms will continue to fuel wars and conflicts around the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you for your comments. i'm glad we have this debate every year, because it's an important issue for our foreign policy. first of all, it is important to recognize that we, as the european union, are the only region in the world with such a sophisticated catalogue of criteria for when not to deliver. this catalogue is also a recommendation for other parts of the world to follow. at the same time, it is realistic that we would probably not have this common position of the council if it were not for the member states to set these criteria for their own exports and then also to decide whether they meet them or not. that's part of the truth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it would be good if the result of such debates were to be a common position on a specific conflict region. this would also serve the security of the world as a whole and of the conflict region. the debate must continue in the council. and if anything, it is the national parliaments that should be debating whether their respective governments meet these criteria, not others who are not called to do so.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament has today made a clear statement against arms exports to crisis areas. it is a shame that my home country, germany, is still one of the world's main exporters of weapons to crisis areas. no matter who becomes chancellor on september 24th - whether merkel or schulz - the countless arms exports will continue. merkel, gabriel and schulz like to present themselves in public as rescuers of refugees, but the black and red government has only fuelled many of the causes of flight through its arms exports. it has supplied countries such as qatar, egypt and saudi arabia, which use german exports to oppress their own people. turkey is also fighting the kurds with german weapons. saudi arabia is waging a war in yemen with german weapons. egypt is bombing its own people allegedly to fight terrorists. i think it is incredibly hypocritical that we create reasons for refugees and then allow ourselves to be celebrated as friends of humanity for taking in these refugees.
i have to say, madam president, as the european parliament's report makes clear, there is unfortunately no progress in the implementation of the eight eu criteria for arms exports, which have been in place since 2008. unfortunately, not all member states adhere to the common legally binding criteria catalogue. i therefore support the report's call for sanctions to be imposed on eu countries which do not comply. i also expressly support the european parliament's repeated call in the report for an eu arms embargo against saudi arabia. we need a coherent european foreign policy, in which all the member states agree on the export of defence products and technology. our candidate for chancellor, martin schulz, rightly says that it cannot be that some eu member states no longer export arms to problem countries while other member states continue to supply those same countries cheerfully. i would like to reply to my german colleague, mr buchner, that, unlike the cdu, which is not calling for anything, the social democrats in germany want to ban or reduce exports of small arms and light weapons to third countries in their parliamentary election programme. we must finally aim at a uniform restrictive arms export policy for the whole of europe.
vp/hr. madam president, allow me to thank the estonian presidency for taking the previous debate in my place. i would like to thank the house for the opportunity to debate an issue which has not often been on the agenda of our work here in the european parliament but has been very much at the centre of our european union work in diplomatic terms in recent years. i would also like to start by thanking the un security council and all its members for the new resolution on north korea that was adopted just hours ago. i believe that in tough moments like this the level of threat posed by north korea to the region and the world is quite clear and unprecedented only a united international community can help build effective solutions. this is needed because we are still far from the goal of a complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearisation of the korean peninsula. yet the international community did the right thing a few hours ago strengthening the pressure on north korea while calling at the same time for a peaceful solution to the crisis through a meaningful, credible, political dialogue; strengthening economic pressure sanctions and keeping the door of dialogue open, encouraging a meaningful, political diplomatic solution a peaceful solution to this crisis. this is the way in which the european union has advocated in a very consistent manner over the months that have gone by, with all our means, through the european members of the un security council, in what has been a perfectly coordinated approach. we always highlight where member states differ or where the european union is not united. let me tell you that this has been an excellent exercise of unity of our member states and an excellent exercise of coordination of the european union member states that are members of the security council, but also through our contacts with all our global partners and all our regional interlocutors. i spent part of august in asia discussing with the foreign ministers of the united states, china, the russian federation, the republic of korea, japan, exactly how to do this, trying to prevent a further escalation of tensions, trying to open a political track, increasing the economic pressure but also keeping the political door open. first and foremost, our points of reference are the regional players. our partners, our strategic partners in the region the republic of korea and japan, but also as i mentioned, china, the united states, the russian federation and sometimes we are among the few to mention them, but they are key players in what is for us the fundamental global non-proliferation regime: the relevant international organizations, the ones that constitute the backbone of the non-proliferation regime globally. i met just last week with the director-general of the international atomic energy agency, mr amano, and the executive secretary of the comprehensive test ban treaty organization, dr zerbo. we will meet again next week in new york. the european union is also strongly united and active in this field: supporting the organisations on a daily basis for the technical work, allowing the international community to work on non-proliferation. to all of them i have expressed the european union's willingness and readiness to seek international unity and stronger economic and diplomatic pressure on north korea, also to avoid the risk of a military escalation. through all these contacts, and also the work of our european union delegations on the ground that i would like to thank them for the tireless work they have been doing over the summer, we could count on the unity of all our member states on our request for maximum pressure and critical political engagement. last thursday, just a few days ago in tallinn, i joined the meeting of the 28 eu member states' foreign ministers and we agreed to support together calls for the united nations security council to take further measures in terms of economic restrictions on north korea, including on the import and export of crude oil. i also invited ministers to consider new additional autonomous european union sanctions. so, three elements to this work of pressure. we will now implement the new un sanctions, as we have always done before. second, we will work to make sure that all our international partners do the same, to ensure the maximum level of efficiency for the economic measures. and third, we will continue the discussion we launched last week on additional european sanctions to complement the action decided by the security council and put maximum pressure on north korea. of course, sanctions are not a goal in themselves, but an instrument to open the way for a political process to start: a way that today, unfortunately, is not working. our objective is not the pressure alone: our objective is to open the political path for a solution to the crisis. for us for the europeans economic and diplomatic pressure are always aimed at opening channels for credible, meaningful and fruitful dialogue. our goal of a denuclearised korean peninsula can only be achieved through diplomatic and political means. there is no military way out of this crisis. we have said it loudly in the european union from the very beginning, and i was glad to see that the un security council reaffirmed this in its discussions and deliberations a few hours ago. a military attack would be useless and harmful, as it could easily spiral into a large-scale conflict. the consequences would be totally unpredictable and certainly dramatic for the people of the korean peninsula, for the region, and most likely for the entire world. we will continue to work to open a credible political path towards the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula. it will be one of the core issues also on my agenda in new york next week at the un general assembly's ministerial week, and to all my interlocutors i will express the eu's unity, determination and readiness first of all to assist our partners, to ensure north korea engages in a credible and meaningful process, in a credible and meaningful dialogue aimed at the peaceful, verifiable denuclearisation of the peninsula. on top of that, we will also continue our work for non-proliferation worldwide. we believe this has to be part of the credible united response the international community can put in place in these difficult months: the support we give to the iaea, the support we give to the ctbto, and clearly, the support we give and continue to give to the full implementation of the iran nuclear deal that has shown the world that, with patience, perseverance, diplomacy and political will, nuclear non-proliferation is indeed achievable.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, as we have just heard, the recent developments in north korea are very alarming. the latest nuclear threat – i guess we all agree – was another major provocation, and this is a huge threat not only to regional security, but to our international security. moreover, it is also a direct and unacceptable violation of the country’s international obligations. we should therefore welcome that the united nations security council on monday unanimously adopted a us-drafted resolution to impose new sanctions on the regime in pyongyang. it is a strong message that the international community is not willing to accept a nuclear-armed north korea. in my capacity as chair of the foreign affairs committee, i participated in last week’s eu foreign affairs meeting in tallinn, chaired by federica mogherini. what i observed is that there was a broad consensus among the 28 foreign ministers and our high representative that we have to strengthen our diplomatic efforts to persuade pyongyang to abandon its weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile programmes in a complete, verifiable and also irreversible manner. in this respect, i believe the european union could develop a more proactive policy, undertaken hand-in-hand with our strategic partners: south korea, japan and the united states – and, as the high representative just pointed out, of course the roles of russia and china are key. the 2015 iran nuclear deal might be a blueprint for a process in which the eu and some member states could play an active part. therefore, i also welcome that chancellor angela merkel has stepped forward to suggest a european – and especially german – participation in any future negotiations with north korea. there is so much at stake; we have to show our responsibility.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, high representative mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the recent unanimous decision by the un security council to impose further sanctions on north korea is good news, because it shows north korea that the three relevant actors - the us, russia and china - can come to an agreement. the resolution also signals to the us that it must reach an agreement with russia and, above all, with china. however, sanctions alone will not solve the incendiary conflict. in order to avoid a military escalation, it is imperative that the governments of north korea and the united states resume dialogue and that a viable political solution be sought under the leadership of the united nations. the six-party talks between north korea, south korea, china, russia, japan and the united states should also be revived. because in the long run, stability on the korean peninsula can only be achieved if both countries begin negotiations to live peacefully as neighbours. the eu should use all the channels at its disposal to launch this diplomatic effort. it is good that you, mrs mogherini, see a responsibility on the eu's part to defuse the dangerous conflict and then, ultimately, to work for a lasting political solution.
i have to say, madam president, mrs. mogherini, i appreciate a lot of your diplomatic activities, especially in the middle east. but today i have to ask you, who do you represent? do you represent the peoples of africa or do you represent the peoples of europe? you said that behind all those numbers are people with names, people with bad experiences. mrs mogherini, behind the many thousands of victims of terrorism and islamist violence in europe there are also people who have names, who have relatives, who have friends, who have lost loved ones, who have been torn from their lives. why are there no such incidents in poland, hungary, slovakia or the czech republic? yeah, because they run a border patrol and they don't let people like that into their country. i propose that we entrust the protection of europe's external borders to hungary and poland, so that our people can be safe again in the future.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take up the words of the commissioner who said that we must not lose sight of reality. the reality, of course, is that the member states of the european union are prepared to do what, when we talk about aid? i feel like this is a permanent shortcoming. there is a representative from each country here, and there are many representatives. but we must also have the courage to say: to what extent can we help? because reality means we can't plan something out of the blue that we can't actually make happen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not understand at all that we are now referring only to the humanitarian aspect. we all agree that we want to help, but we cannot help all the time. we must therefore also define the limits of what is possible for us.
i have to say, madam president, the objective of european refugee policy is clear: by moving europe's external borders far into the african continent, as many refugees as possible are prevented from reaching the eu's external borders. the idea of introducing european asylum procedures in african countries is not new. in 2004, a german interior minister was already advocating this. at that time, the conflict between the interest of the blockade and the human rights claim in favour of the human rights of refugees was striking. today, the transfer of the european asylum procedure to africa is simply announced. breaches of international law and conventions are becoming more and more commonplace, from the eu-turkey deal to pushbacks in war zones. breaches of the law, breaches of the word and the repetition of false claims and political errors are the hallmarks of european refugee policy and of many member states. instead of allowing regular migration, it makes itself dependent on dictators, promotes the militarization of unstable regions such as the sahel and supports mafia militias. this policy is not only damaging to those directly affected, it is attacking the very foundation of the eu, namely the rule of law as a political basis and the human rights bond as an ethical basis, and will therefore change europe negatively.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. that's some hard tobacco you're hearing here. i think that should not be taken for granted. it's not about opening up the borders to everyone who wants to come in. it's not about some romantic feeling, taking people in here, it's about two things: the first is a minimum of humanity towards those who have come a long way because they can no longer live at home for various reasons. the second is a common rule of law requirement which is actually addressed to all member states. it is not possible for hungary and others to say: 'if the european court of justice decides what it wants, we will not do it, and then we will pretend that the commission is to blame because it could have left its humanitarian work behind in the first place.' there are three things, in my view, that migration policy is about: first, to have a common solidarity policy on how to deal with the people who have come to us - that has been largely missed. we have failed completely, i need not repeat it, and there is no improvement in sight. no one on the council wants to hear that either. and there are the ways in which we're starting to have first successes: namely, in addressing the root causes on the ground, and in what we do in between. let me say one sentence, you said yes, we can talk a little longer, so i didn't raise a blue card either one sentence:with what started out positively, i'm a little afraid about the order. i would rather first put the camps in libya in order and then do actions like sophia... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. turkey and the european union concluded their association agreement in 1963. turkey was granted candidate status in 1999. negotiations have been going on since 2005, and even in better times, they haven't really gotten closer. it shows that both sides are not interested in this accession in the form that it could lead to something. the people of europe - 77% of europeans - are opposed to turkey's accession and favour the end of the negotiations. in germany - in my country - it is 86%. turkey has long since ceased to meet the copenhagen criteria, and if we look away from surveys and look at the legal situation, article 5 of the negotiating framework comes into play. if there is a long-term and serious breach of the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, then it is the commission's task to recommend that the negotiations be suspended. i can't believe she won't. this house has done this on several occasions and it is high time that the commission did the same. we need that courage to think again. dear cristian preda of the epp: the question is what will replace an accession process which is obviously dead? the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security. the european union has been a major player in the negotiations on the mediterranean, and we have been able to reach a consensus on the need to strengthen the community's external relations. we can finally make progress in fields where there are few: culture, science - we can do so much together. the precondition, of course, is that the wrongfully imprisoned are released. before that, there's nothing else to talk about. i have been the rapporteur for my group on turkey for five years now and i would like to say from a liberal point of view in my last speech on this subject that i find the relations and developments in turkey extremely regrettable. from the point of view of a liberal, freedom rights, minority rights, but also the development of the economy are important. when i look at the way the unions are trying to enforce their freedom of assembly in taksim square, the way the gezi square protests were crushed, the way the kurds are being treated, the way the press is being treated - the country is ranked 154th in the world, behind iraq - the referendum that the venice commission says will lead to the abolition of the separation of powers - all of this is really worrying. the customs union talks will not be able to continue unless the political situation develops. we say that turkey remains an important neighbour in the area of dialogue, but it is high time that this dialogue was put on a new footing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as colleagues have mentioned, turkish president erdoğan continues his relentless course against democracy and human rights, and he has put thousands of people into jail – journalists, teachers, politicians, and also, more and more eu citizens – and this is unacceptable. there can be no doubt that erdoğan’s course requires a very strong and clear european response. i think we all agree on that, but the question is: what response? because i think we need to find a response that is not just there for us to feel good but a response that actually achieves what we want to get to, and for that we need to indeed remember that erdoğan is not turkey and turkey is not erdoğan. 50% of people in turkey voted against erdoğan’s referendum, and people in turkey are currently, every day, risking their freedom and their employment by speaking up, by defending their rights, by defending the rights of others. we must not forget those people and we must not leave them alone. we must do everything, rather, that we can to support them, and by everything i mean both on the institutional level but also with everything that we as meps and we as groups can do. we have also one instrument in our hands that i believe will be very powerful in actually targeting erdoğan without harming the opposition, and that is indeed the customs union. i think it would be a scandal if we were to deepen our business ties with turkey while journalists and labour unionists are in jail. and the customs union is actually not an instrument for political dialogue; it is an instrument for exchanging goods, for exchanging services. and that is also why erdoğan wants it. he has never threatened to stop that one, and i think that is why we also need to especially use it. we need to say, no, we won’t do the modernisation and enlargement of the customs union unless there is progress on human rights. no business interests can really be more important than the interest of people to live in freedom and in the enjoyment of their rights, and the same is true – has to be true – for the export of weapons. there are still weapons exports happening today from european union member states to turkey. but turkey is a country in conflict: not a single weapon should be sent there, and certainly also not whole weapons factories. how to deal with turkey? it is certainly not a good topic for an election campaign, nor for a competition about who hits the hardest. this is about the future of more than 70 million people and about the future of us. there will be a time after erdoğan. let’s not forget that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. many speakers have already pointed out that turkey has been moving away from our european values for several years. i am also extremely sorry. recent developments in turkey, however, are again a cause for great concern. i would like to point out, among other things, that german citizens have also been arrested without justification. these developments must not go uncommented. and that is why i think it is right that chancellor angela merkel has spoken in favour of putting the issue of relations between the european union and turkey on the agenda of the next european council in october, so that we can then discuss the next steps with our european partners in a calm manner. we in the european parliament voted last year by a large majority to suspend the eu accession negotiations with turkey. in view of the negative developments in this country, it is not worth continuing the accession negotiations at the moment. but of course we know that ultimately it is up to the member states to decide how to proceed. i would like to take up a point which has already been the subject of debate. i have a different view from some of my predecessors. in the present circumstances, i do not think that any deepening of trade relations is possible. i therefore believe that the council should not, in these circumstances, give the commission a mandate to negotiate with turkey on the enlargement of the customs union. yes, a close and special cooperation between the eu and turkey, which serves the people on both sides, especially those who are also against the erdoğan system. but given turkey's recent developments towards autocracy, it cannot become a member of the european union. eu membership is not the right path for ankara, and there is no debate at present about a future closer customs union.
you have already spoken under a blue card in this debate, so i am going to move to the next speaker. apologies for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs mogherini said earlier that the european parliament should be more honest in its handling of information. but what about the commission itself and the council? we know - it has been said many times, and it is being said again - that the turkish government has been breaking its european promise for years. what are the commission and the council doing? wait, it's going to get better. basic values are trampled underfoot in turkey. europeans are arrested for no reason. they're being held in prison for months without consular assistance. this is something we cannot accept at all, in addition to everything we have already experienced with the turkish government in recent years. i swear to you, if this had happened to any other country, the commission and the council would have reacted strongly long ago. but by doing nothing about turkey, the eu is making a fool of itself - just as turkey made a fool of itself with its travel warning for germany. i think it is time for a strong reaction from the council and the commission. yes, the accession must be put on record, it will not take place anyway. what are the commission and the council afraid of? everything else - including the enlargement of the customs union - really depends on the behaviour of turkey itself, and we must make that clear to the outside world. we cannot extend the customs union at the moment. but we know, and we must make it clear to the turkish people, that turkey needs us much more than we need turkey, and with economic sanctions we may be able to bring mr erdoğan to his senses.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. commissioner, you gave us a very important speech today. turkey is a neighbouring country, and you are quite right. she's a partner, and you're right about that. we shouldn't talk about each other so much, but with each other great observation. i agree with you. because there are also enough topics, nato, culture, science, much more. but anyone who so clearly tramples on freedom of expression and the rule of law is at the same time denouncing us with this behaviour and telling us: we don't want to be in your club. we must respond to this de facto termination. and that is why this parliament has done it quite right in saying: we are suspending these negotiations, we are going to redirect the money sensibly away from the government and towards people people to people contact. and i think that you, the commission, would have done well to have taken a clear position and not to have had this sort of law-abiding attitude towards us. you, as an austrian, in particular, have a foreign minister who tells us how to stand tall and straight. i really expected more from you on that one. i have no reservations about the council reaching a consensus. the dutch foreign minister told us that we should continue to talk after the elections, because then we would know how the chancellor is doing in germany. first, it did not want turkey to be involved, then it did not want to break off the negotiations, then it went after mr schulz. i'm sure after the election, things will be clear. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner hahn, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to ask you, at the outset, to do one thing - and this is not just a matter of the political groups - and that is not to make a fool of ourselves. we must not sell our european values on erdoğan's turkish bazaar. now more than 50 german citizens are in prison in turkey. journalists are being detained, including a young woman with a child. the despot of the bosporus is proud to be called such, but never tires of calling european politicians who have forgotten history nazis. that's enough! but we are diligently pursuing the accession negotiations, paying pre-accession funds and economic aid, transferring six billion euros of taxpayers' money to ankara as part of the more than dubious refugee deal, instead of simply finally ensuring the security of our external borders ourselves, as hungary has shown us, as macedonia has managed on behalf of the eu. no more negotiations with erdoğan, no more money for turkey and a new start without despots as an offer, towards a fair, privileged partnership!
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have more messages than i can handle and i'm asking for your understanding. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote on the resolution will take place during the october partsession. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela (2017/2834 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think europe has neglected latin america for too long. this is a region of great economic and political-strategic importance. we haven't paid enough attention to it because we've been looking too much at asia. the americans have now withdrawn from ttip. this leaves a huge strategic gap in the entire pacific region. we know that the countries of latin america are parties to this treaty, but others also hope that we europeans will resolve this vacuum so that this vacuum is not taken over by china. if you talk to the leaders in brazil, argentina or other countries, you know how much chinese interests are being promoted there. i would therefore ask the commission to press forward with its intention to negotiate these treaties with mercosur and others more vigorously and more quickly. it is not only of commercial policy but of great global strategic importance to do so, and i would also like to say to our colleagues on the left: this also means that maduro and others in such countries cannot eliminate democracy and the rule of law and that such rich countries are being driven into poverty in the face of such misunderstood socialism. we must not allow this to destroy these relations, but we must be careful and make it clear that these people cannot speak for latin america. venezuela is one of the richest countries in the world, but what a regime with a wrong ideology is doing there is a disaster for the people of that country and for all of latin america. we should also make this clear.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank mr preda very much for this report and for putting india at the centre of our discussions. mr van orden, the sun is rising in india at this moment, and that is why we are having this debate at this time. but you are absolutely right, of course, that this india is of central strategic importance to us, economically and politically. we have to see that india has a decisive advantage over china: india is already a democracy and does not have to make this political system change that china will eventually be subjected to. this should be a strong reason for us to work more closely with india here - an india which already has this systemic advantage and will now also be of greater importance in the economic field. if we strengthen india and have greater cooperation with india, we can achieve a certain balance in the entire asian region. when i see the idea of china with the silk road and many others, i would feel more comfortable having a strong india with whom we have close relations. that is why we should give more value to this india and not just look at beijing.
member of the commission. – mr president, the fight against corruption is one of the sustainable development targets of the 2030 agenda and is therefore reflected in the new european consensus on development adopted in june. the new consensus will shape the eu’s development cooperation in the years to come. all of the human rights issues that are affected by corruption and highlighted in this report are also addressed by the 2015-2018 eu action plan for democracy and human rights, so let me go through the five main issues raised by the report. firstly, trafficking in persons. the trafficking in men, women and particularly children is a grave violation of human rights. it also constitutes a serious form of organised crime: a fast-growing, highly profitable business that can corrupt the legal order of a state. the eu has developed a comprehensive legal and policy framework to combat trafficking: i will list the eu strategy towards the eradication of trafficking in human beings, the eu directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting victims, and the designation of the eu anti-trafficking coordinator. this framework has victims at its centre, it is based on the recognition of everyone’s human rights, and it understands the specific needs of women and children. our priorities in fighting human trafficking are to enhance the law enforcement and judiciary, and to enable them to disrupt criminal networks more efficiently, but it also stresses the need to foster transparency and accountability. i continue because i strongly believe that we have to show our discipline in the principles of this political body. secondly, business and human rights. the eu council conclusions of june 2016 on business and human rights renew the commitment of the eu and its member states to the un guiding principles on business and human rights and their implementation. substantial progress has been achieved. for example, the 2014 eu accounting directive on non-financial information disclosure has required companies with more than 500 employees to disclose non-financial information in their management reports. information includes socially-related aspects, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery issues. furthermore, the eu has issued sector-specific guidance notes, including for the development of eu member states’ national action plans. as of today, 12 member states have adopted national action plans on business and human rights, and most of the others are advancing with their national action plans on corporate social responsibility or on business and human rights. this is really crucial as the eu is the home base of many multinationals with global value chains and potential human rights impact. thirdly, land grabbing. respect for land rights, including customary and equitable access to land, is essential for sustainable development and for the enjoyment of fundamental human rights. poor governance disproportionately affects developing countries and the most vulnerable sectors of populations, such as women and indigenous peoples. the european union, in its cooperation with third countries, supports the promotion and application of the voluntary guidelines on responsible governance of tenure of land, fisheries and forests (vggt). fourthly, freedom of media. without freedom of expression and freedom of the media, an informed, active and engaged citizenry is impossible. the eu supports the adoption of legislation that provides adequate protection for whistle-blowers and for journalists’ right of non-disclosure of sources. fifthly, elections and the functioning of democratically-elected bodies. a transparent, credible and resilient electoral framework, as well as independent and accountable state institutions, are important factors in deterring electoral fraud and corruption in the electoral process. the european parliament knows very well the importance of our electoral observation missions in this respect. since 2000, the european union has deployed 142 electoral observation missions and election assessment teams, in 64 countries around the globe. in addition, from 2008 onwards, we have deployed 85 smaller electoral expert missions and, from 2011, 14 election follow-up missions. furthermore, the eu supports the fight against corruption via public financial management reform, capacity building for law enforcement and the judiciary, as well as through support to civil society and parliaments. the eu also encourages the signing, ratification and implementation of international anti-corruption conventions, including the 2003 un convention against corruption (uncac). finally, allow me to thank the committee on foreign affairs, and especially the rapporteur, my dear friend mr petras auštrevičius, for a comprehensive and highly useful report. the report rightly highlights the massive human rights implications of corruption and corruptive practices. thank you – this is our role, to continue regardless of the very difficult conditions.
president of the commission. – mr president, when i stood before you this time last year i had a somewhat easier speech to give. it was plain for all to see that our union was not in a good state. europe was battered and bruised by a year that had shaken our very foundation. we only had two choices: either come together around a positive european agenda, or each retreat into our own corners. faced with this choice, i argued for unity. i proposed a positive agenda to help create, as i said last year, a europe that protects, a europe that empowers, a europe that defends. over the past 12 months, this parliament has helped bring this agenda to life. we continue to make progress with each passing day. just last night you worked to find an agreement on a trade defence instrument and on doubling our european investment capacity, and you succeeded. thank you for that. i also want to thank the 27 leaders of our member states. days after my speech last year, they welcomed my agenda at their summit in bratislava. in doing so, they chose unity. they chose to rally around our common ground. together, we showed that europe can deliver for its citizens when and where it matters. ever since, we have been slowly, but surely, gathering momentum. it helped that the economic outlook swung in our favour. we are now in the fifth year of an economic recovery that really reaches each and every single member state. growth in the european union has outstripped that of the united states over the last two years. it now stands above 2% for the union as a whole and at 2.2% for the monetary area. unemployment is at a nine-year low. almost eight million jobs have been created during this mandate so far. with 235 million people in work, more people are in employment in the european union than ever before. the commission cannot take the credit for this alone, though i am sure that had eight million jobs been lost we would have taken the blame. but europe’s institutions played their part in helping the wind change. we can take credit for our european investment plan which has triggered eur 225 billion worth of investment so far. it has granted loans to over 450 000 small firms and more than 270 infrastructure projects. we can take credit for the fact that thanks to determined action, european banks once again have the capital fire power to lend to companies so that they can grow and create jobs. and we can take credit for having brought public deficits down from 6.6% to 1.6%. this is thanks to an intelligent application of the stability and growth pact. we ask for fiscal discipline but are careful not to kill growth. this is in fact working very well across the union, despite some criticism. ten years since the crisis struck, europe’s economy is finally bouncing back and with it, our confidence. our 27 leaders, this parliament and the commission are putting ‘europe’ back into our union, and together we are putting ‘union’ back into our union. in the last year we saw all 27 leaders walk up to the capitoline hill in rome, one by one, to renew their vows to each other and to our union. all of this leads me to believe the wind is back in europe’s sails. we now have a window of opportunity, but it will not stay open forever. let us make the most of the momentum, catch the wind in our sails. for this, we must do two things. first, we should stay the course set out last year. we still have 16 months in which real progress can be made by parliament, council and commission. we must use this time to finish what we started in bratislava and deliver on our own positive agenda. secondly, we should chart the direction for the future. as mark twain wrote, and i quote: ‘years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn’t do than by the ones you did do’. now is the time to build a more united, a stronger, and a more democratic europe for 2025. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, alors que nous regardons vers l’avenir, nous ne pouvons pas nous laisser détourner de notre cap. ensemble, nous nous sommes fixé comme objectif de parachever une union de l’énergie, une union de la sécurité, une union des marchés des capitaux, une union bancaire et un marché unique numérique. ensemble, nous avons déjà fait bien du chemin. comme l’a conseillé votre parlement, la commission a déjà présenté 80 % des propositions promises en début de mandat. nous devons maintenant travailler ensemble pour que ces propositions deviennent des actes législatifs et que ces actes se concrétisent dans la pratique. comme toujours, certaines concessions devront être faites. les propositions présentées par la commission pour réformer notre système d’asile commun ou pour établir de nouvelles règles et des règles plus solides sur le détachement des travailleurs sont des sujets – je le sais – controversés. nous obtiendrons de bons résultats si chacun bâtit sa partie du pont pour que les positions puissent se rejoindre. je voudrais dire que la commission sera ouverte au compromis, du moment que le résultat final est bon pour l’union et équitable pour tous ses états membres. nous sommes maintenant prêts à soumettre les 20 % d’initiatives restantes d’ici mai 2018. ce matin, j’ai adressé au président du parlement et au premier ministre estonien – dont je voudrais ici saluer l’action forte dans le domaine européen – une lettre d’intention précisant les priorités pour l’année à venir. je ne vais pas et je ne peux pas vous énumérer toutes ces propositions, mais permettez-moi d’en mentionner cinq qui sont particulièrement importantes. premièrement, je voudrais que nous renforcions notre programme commercial européen. l’europe est ouverte au commerce, oui, mais réciprocité il doit y avoir. il faudra que nous obtenions autant que ce que nous donnons. le commerce n’est pas un concept abstrait. le commerce, ce sont des emplois, ce sont de nouvelles opportunités pour les entreprises européennes, grandes ou petites. chaque milliard d’exportations en plus représente 14 000 emplois supplémentaires en europe. le commerce, c’est l’exportation de nos normes sociales et environnementales et de nos normes en matière de protection des données ou de sécurité alimentaire. l’europe a toujours été un espace économique attirant mais, depuis l’an dernier, j’observe que nos partenaires du monde entier se pressent à notre porte pour conclure des accords commerciaux avec nous. grâce à l’aide de votre parlement, nous venons de conclure avec le canada un accord commercial qui s’appliquera de manière provisoire à compter de la semaine prochaine. nous avons trouvé un accord politique avec le japon sur un futur partenariat économique et, d’ici à la fin de l’année, nous avons de bonnes chances de faire de même avec le mexique et les pays d’amérique du sud. aujourd’hui, nous proposons d’ouvrir des négociations commerciales avec l’australie et la nouvelle-zélande. je voudrais que tous ces accords soient finalisés d’ici à la fin de ce mandat et je tiens à ce qu’ils soient négociés dans la plus grande transparence. l’ouverture aux échanges doit aller de pair avec une transparence accrue de nos processus décisionnels. le parlement européen aura le dernier mot sur l’ensemble des accords commerciaux et donc ses membres, tout comme les parlements nationaux et régionaux, doivent être tenus parfaitement informés dès le premier jour des négociations. la commission y veillera. dorénavant, la commission publiera l’intégralité des projets de mandat de négociation qu’elle présentera au conseil. les citoyens ont le droit de savoir ce que propose la commission. fini le manque de transparence, fini les rumeurs et les procès d’intention dont la commission ne cesse de faire l’objet. j’invite le conseil à faire de même. (applaudissements)je voudrais dire une fois pour toutes que nous ne sommes pas des partisans naïfs du libre-échange. l’europe doit toujours défendre ses intérêts stratégiques. c’est la raison pour laquelle nous proposons aujourd’hui un nouveau cadre de l’union européenne sur l’examen des investissements, investment screening, en franglais. si une entreprise publique étrangère veut acquérir un port européen stratégique, une partie de notre infrastructure énergétique ou une de nos sociétés dans le domaine des technologies de défense, cela ne pourra se faire que dans la transparence, à travers un examen approfondi et un débat. il est de notre responsabilité politique de savoir ce qui se passe chez nous afin d’être en mesure, si besoin en était, de protéger notre sécurité collective. (applaudissements) deuxièmement, la commission voudrait rendre notre industrie plus forte et plus compétitive. ceci est en particulier vrai pour ce qui concerne notre base industrielle et les 32 millions de travailleurs qui en constituent la colonne vertébrale. ce sont eux qui fabriquent les produits de toute première classe – nos voitures, par exemple – auxquels nous devons notre avance par rapport à d’autres. je suis fier de notre industrie automobile, mais je suis choqué quand les clients et les consommateurs sont sciemment et intentionnellement trompés. (applaudissements)j’invite l’industrie automobile à faire amende honorable et à corriger le tir. au lieu de chercher à tromper et à induire en erreur, les constructeurs devraient investir dans les voitures propres, qui sont celles de demain. mesdames et messieurs les députés, nous présentons aujourd’hui même une nouvelle stratégie industrielle pour l’europe, qui permettra à notre industrie de rester ou de devenir le numéro un en matière d’innovation, de numérisation et de décarbonisation. troisièmement, je voudrais que l’europe soit à l’avant-garde de la lutte contre le changement climatique. l’année dernière, nous avons fixé des normes climatiques globales avec la ratification de l’accord de paris, ici même, dans cette assemblée. face à l’affaissement des ambitions dont font preuve les états-unis, l’europe doit faire en sorte de rendre grandes la planète et la partie indivisible de l’humanité tout entière. la commission présentera sous peu une proposition de réduction des émissions de carbone dans le secteur des transports. quatrièmement, je voudrais que nous protégions mieux les européens à l’ère du numérique. au cours des dernières années, nous avons fait des progrès notables dans la sécurisation de l’internet. de nouvelles règles proposées par la commission protégeront nos droits de propriété intellectuelle, notre diversité culturelle et nos données à caractère personnel. nous avons intensifié la lutte contre la propagande terroriste et la radicalisation en ligne. mais l’europe reste mal équipée face aux cyberattaques. les cyberattaques sont parfois plus dangereuses pour la stabilité des démocraties et des économies que les fusils et les chars. rien que l’année dernière, nous avons enregistré plus de 4 000 attaques par rançongiciel et 80 % des entreprises européennes ont connu au moins un incident lié à la cybersécurité. les cyberattaques ne connaissent pas de frontières. elles n’épargnent personne. c’est pourquoi la commission propose aujourd’hui de nouveaux outils et notamment une agence européenne de la cybersécurité pour mieux nous défendre contre ces attaques. cinquièmement, la migration doit rester sur notre radar. même si les questions gravitant autour de la migration ont souvent suscité débats et polémiques, nous sommes parvenus à faire de réels progrès sur de nombreux plans. aujourd’hui, nous protégeons nos frontières extérieures de façon plus efficace. plus de 1 700 officiers du nouveau corps européen de garde-frontières et de garde-côtes soutiennent maintenant les 100 000 garde-frontières nationaux des états membres et patrouillent notamment en grèce, en italie, en bulgarie et en espagne. nous avons des frontières communes, mais les états membres qui sont en première ligne du fait de leur situation géographique ne doivent pas être les seuls responsables de leur protection. frontières communes et protections communes doivent aller ensemble. nous sommes parvenus à endiguer les flux de migrants irréguliers, source de grande inquiétude dans de nombreux pays. nous avons réduit de 97 % le nombre d’arrivées irrégulières en méditerranée orientale grâce à l’accord que nous avons conclu avec la turquie. et, cet été, nous avons réussi à mieux contrôler la route de la méditerranée centrale. les arrivées y ont diminué de 81 % au mois d’août par rapport au même mois de l’année dernière. de cette manière, nous avons considérablement réduit le nombre de vies perdues en méditerranée. je ne peux pas parler de migration sans rendre un hommage appuyé à l’italie pour sa persévérance et sa générosité. (applaudissements) pendant les mois d’été, la commission a travaillé en toute harmonie avec le premier ministre italien, mon ami paolo gentiloni, et son gouvernement. nous l’avons fait et nous continuerons à le faire parce que, en méditerranée, l’italie sauve l’honneur de l’europe. nous devons aussi, et de toute urgence, améliorer les conditions de vie des réfugiés en libye. je suis atterré par les conditions inhumaines qui prévalent dans les centres de rétention ou d’accueil. ici, l’europe a une responsabilité mais une responsabilité collective, et la commission agira de concert avec les nations unies pour mettre fin à cette situation scandaleuse qui ne peut durer. (applaudissements)même si cela m’attriste de voir que tous nos états membres ne montrent pas le même degré de solidarité, l’europe, prise dans son ensemble a continué, elle, à faire preuve de solidarité. rien que l’année passée, nos états membres ont accordé l’asile à plus de 720 000 réfugiés ou ont pourvu à leur réinstallation. c’est trois fois plus que l’australie, le canada et les états-unis, pris ensemble. l’europe, contrairement à ce qui est dit, n’est pas une forteresse et ne doit jamais le devenir. l’europe est et restera le continent de la solidarité où doivent pouvoir trouver refuge ceux qui sont poursuivis pour des raisons inacceptables. (applaudissements)je suis particulièrement fier des jeunes européens qui se portent volontaires pour donner des cours de langues aux réfugiés syriens ou de tous ces jeunes qui, par milliers, se sont mis au service de notre nouveau corps européen de solidarité. ces jeunes-là donnent vie et couleurs à la solidarité européenne. (applaudissements)mais nous devons redoubler d’efforts. à la fin du mois, la commission présentera une nouvelle série de propositions centrées sur les retours, la solidarité avec l’afrique et l’ouverture des voies de migration légale. concernant plus particulièrement les retours, je voudrais répéter que les personnes qui ne sont pas en droit de séjourner en europe doivent regagner leur pays d’origine. alors que seulement 36 % des migrants en situation irrégulière sont renvoyés, il est évident que nous devons considérablement intensifier notre effort et notre action en la matière. c’est seulement de cette manière que l’europe pourra faire preuve de solidarité à l’égard des réfugiés qui ont réellement besoin de protection. (applaudissements) la solidarité ne peut pas être une affaire exclusivement intra-européenne. il s’agit aussi de mettre en place une plus grande solidarité avec l’afrique. l’afrique, berceau de l’humanité, continent noble, continent jeune. notre fonds fiduciaire pour l’afrique, doté d’une enveloppe de 2,7 milliards d’euros ouvre des possibilités d’emplois partout sur le continent africain. mais, alors que le budget de l’union européenne a assumé le gros du financement, la contribution de tous nos états membres réunis ne s’élève qu’à 150 millions d’euros. le fonds atteint maintenant ses limites. nous connaissons, ou devrions connaître, les risques d’une pénurie de financement. en 2015, de nombreux migrants ont voulu rejoindre l’europe quand et parce que les fonds du programme alimentaire mondial de l’onu se sont épuisés. j’invite donc les états membres à joindre le geste à la parole et à veiller à ce que le fonds fiduciaire pour l’afrique ne connaisse pas le même sort. le risque est grand. (applaudissements)nous allons aussi travailler à l’ouverture des voies de migration légale. la migration irrégulière ne s’arrêtera que lorsque les migrants auront une autre option que d’entreprendre un voyage périlleux. (appplaudissements) nous sommes sur le point de réinstaller 22 000 réfugiés venant de turquie, de jordanie ou du liban, et je m’associe à l’appel lancé par le haut commissaire des nations unies pour les réfugiés pour réinstaller 40 000 autres réfugiés originaires de libye et des pays voisins. pour le reste, l’europe est un continent qui vieillit, raison de plus pour le doter d’un système de migration légale, qui est une nécessité incontournable. c’est la raison pour laquelle la commission a fait des propositions pour faciliter l’accès des migrants à la carte bleue européenne et je remercie le parlement de son soutien à cet égard. sehr verehrter herr präsident, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren abgeordnete! ich habe nur einige wenige der initiativen angesprochen, die wir in den kommenden 16 monaten zum abschluss bringen wollen und zum abschluss bringen müssen. doch dies allein reicht nicht aus, wenn wir die herzen, ja, auch die köpfe der europäer zurückgewinnen wollen. jetzt ist es an der zeit, die strecke in richtung zukunft abzustecken. im märz hat die kommission ihr weißbuch zur zukunft europas mit fünf szenarien vorgelegt, wie europa im jahr 2025 aussehen könnte. diese szenarien wurden diskutiert – manchmal oberflächlich, sehr oft heftig –, sie wurden analysiert und mitunter teilweise zerrissen. das ist auch gut so, denn genau dafür waren sie gedacht. ich wollte einen prozess in gang bringen, in dem die europäer selbst über ihren weg in die zukunft bestimmen. die zukunft europas kann man nicht – gewissermaßen von oben herab –diktieren. solche entscheidungen müssen auf einer demokratischen debatte und letztlich auf breitem konsens fußen. dieses haus hat aktive beiträge zu dieser debatte geleistet, wofür ich mich besonders bei den berichterstattern bedanken möchte. auch möchte ich mich bei den kollegen bedanken, die an den mehr als 2 000 öffentlichen konsultationsveranstaltungen teilgenommen haben, welche die kommission seit märz überall in europa organisiert hat. jetzt ist es an der zeit, die ersten schlussfolgerungen aus dieser debatte zu ziehen. es ist an der zeit, den nächsten schritt zu machen: vom nachdenken zum handeln, von der debatte zur entscheidung. heute möchte ich ihnen meine sicht der dinge vorstellen: mein – wenn sie so wollen – persönliches „szenario 6“. dieses szenario beruht auf jahrzehntelangen persönlichen erfahrungen. mein ganzes leben lang habe ich das europäische projekt gelebt, dafür gekämpft und dafür gearbeitet. ich habe gute zeiten gesehen, aber auch schlechte zeiten erlebt. ich habe an vielen seiten des verhandlungstisches gesessen – als minister, als premierminister, als präsident der euro-gruppe und nun als kommissionspräsident. ich war in maastricht, amsterdam, nizza und lissabon dabei, als sich unsere union weiterentwickelt und erweitert hat. ich habe stets für europa gekämpft, habe manchmal auch an europa gelitten und bin an europa verzweifelt. ich bin mit der europäischen union durch dick und dünn gegangen – und nie habe ich meine liebe zu europa verloren. es gibt – wie wir wissen – keine liebe ohne enttäuschungen, jedenfalls sehr selten. ja, liebe zu europa, weil europa und die europäische union in dieser zerklüfteten welt einmaliges erreicht hat: frieden nach innen und frieden nach außen. wohlstand, wenn auch nicht für alle, so doch für viele. daran sollten wir 2018 aus anlass des europäischen jahres des kulturerbes denken. 2018 muss ein fest der kulturellen vielfalt werden. (beifall)die wertegebundenheit europas gibt uns ein sicheres zuhause. für mich ist europa mehr als binnenmarkt, geld, währung, euro. es geht immer vorrangig um werte. mein szenario 6 geht deshalb von drei grundprinzipien aus – drei unverrückbaren grundprinzipien: freiheit, gleichberechtigung, rechtsstaatlichkeit. europa ist zunächst eine union der freiheit. damit meine ich die freiheit von unterdrückung und diktatur – phänomene, die unser kontinent, vor allem die länder mittel- und osteuropas, leider nur allzu gut kennt. ich meine die freiheit, die eigene meinung zu sagen, als bürger und als journalist ….(beifall)– eine freiheit, die wir allzu oft als selbstverständlichkeit empfinden. auf diesen freiheitswerten wurde unsere union aufgebaut. doch freiheit fällt nicht vom himmel. wir müssen für sie kämpfen. in europa und in der welt. (beifall)europa muss eine union der gleichberechtigung und der gleichberechtigten sein. das bedeutet gleichberechtigung ihrer mitglieder – ob groß oder klein, ob im osten oder im westen, ob im norden oder im süden. europa reicht von vigo bis varna, von spanien bis nach bulgarien. (beifall)europa muss mit beiden lungenflügeln atmen, mit dem östlichen und dem westlichen. ansonsten gerät unser kontinent in atemnot. in einer union der gleichen kann es keine bürger zweiter klasse geben. es ist nicht hinnehmbar, dass auch 2017 noch kinder an krankheiten sterben, die in europa schon längst ausgerottet sein müssten. (beifall)kinder in rumänien oder italien sollten gleichermaßen zugang zu masernimpfstoffen haben wie kinder in anderen ländern europas. ohne wenn und aber. (beifall)deshalb arbeiten wir mit allen mitgliedstaaten zusammen, um ihre nationalen impfmaßnahmen zu unterstützen. vermeidbare todesfälle darf es in europa nicht geben. (beifall)in einer union der gleichen kann es keine arbeitnehmer zweiter klasse geben. menschen, die die gleiche arbeit am gleichen ort verrichten, sollen das gleiche gehalt bekommen. (beifall)diesem ziel dienen die kommissionsvorschläge zur entsendung von arbeitskräften. wir sollten sicherstellen, dass alle eu-vorschriften zur mobilität von arbeitskräften auf gerechte, einfache und wirksame art und weise durchgesetzt werden – und zwar mit hilfe einer neuen europäischen aufsichts- und umsetzungsbehörde. es ist absurd, dass eine bankenaufsichtsbehörde darüber wacht, ob bankenstandards eingehalten werden, dass es aber keine gemeinsame arbeitsmarktbehörde gibt, die für fairness innerhalb des binnenmarkts sorgt. wir werden diese behörde schaffen. (beifall)in einer union der gleichen kann es keine verbraucher zweiter klasse geben. ich kann nicht akzeptieren, dass den menschen in manchen teilen europas, vornehmlich in mittel- und osteuropa, qualitativ schlechtere lebensmittel verkauft werden als in anderen, obwohl verpackung und markenkennzeichnung identisch sind. (beifall)slowaken haben nicht weniger fisch in fischstäbchen verdient, ungarn nicht weniger fleisch in fleischgerichten oder tschechen weniger kakao in der schokolade. das eu-recht verbietet solche praktiken schon jetzt. nun müssen wir die nationalen behörden mit umfassenden befugnissen ausstatten, sodass diese flächendeckend gegen diese illegalen praktiken vorgehen können. (beifall)drittens: in europa gilt die macht des rechts, und die macht des rechts ist an die stelle des rechts des stärkeren getreten. das bedeutet, dass recht und gesetz durch eine unabhängige justiz gewahrt werden. teil einer union zu sein, die auf rechtsstaatlichkeit beruht, heißt auch, rechtskräftige urteile zu akzeptieren und zu respektieren. (beifall)unsere mitgliedstaaten haben dem europäischen gerichtshof die befugnis übertragen, in letzter instanz zu entscheiden. die urteile des europäischen gerichtshofs sind in allen fällen zu respektieren. sie nicht zu respektieren oder die unabhängigkeit nationaler gerichte zu untergraben, heißt, bürgerinnen und bürger ihrer grundrechte zu berauben. rechtsstaatlichkeit ist in der europäischen union keine option. sie ist pflicht. unsere union ist kein staat, aber sie muss ein rechtsstaat sein. (beifall)diese drei grundsätze – freiheit, gleichberechtigung und rechtsstaatlichkeit – müssen das fundament bleiben, auf dem wir eine stärkere und demokratischere union aufbauen. wenn wir über diese zukunft reden, dann sagt mir meine erfahrung, dass neue verträge und neue institutionen für die menschen nicht die antwort sind, nach der sie suchen. sie sind lediglich mittel zum zweck, nicht mehr und nicht weniger. für uns hier in straßburg oder in brüssel haben sie bedeutung. andernorts bedeuten sie nicht viel. ich bin an institutionellen reformen nur interessiert, wenn sie zu mehr effizienz der europäischen union führen. statt zuflucht in künftigen vertragsänderungen – die irgendwann kommen müssen – zu suchen, müssen wir uns zunächst von der vorstellung verabschieden, dass einige verlieren müssen, damit andere gewinnen können. in der demokratie geht es um kompromiss. und die richtigen kompromisse machen auf dauer alle zu gewinnern. in der europäischen union sind kompromisse weder negativ noch obszön, sondern die kunst, gegensätze zu überbrücken und zueinander zu finden. wer nicht kompromissfähig ist, ist weder demokratiefähig noch europatauglich. (beifall)um ihre einheit zu stärken, muss die europäische union auch inklusiver werden. wenn wir den schutz unserer außengrenzen zu recht verstärken und noch mehr verstärken wollen, dann müssen wir rumänien und bulgarien unverzüglich den schengen-raum öffnen. (starker beifall) im übrigen sollten wir auch kroatien die volle schengen-mitgliedschaft ermöglichen, sobald alle kriterien erfüllt sind. wenn wir wollen, dass der euro unseren kontinent mehr eint als spaltet, dann sollte er mehr sein als die währung einiger ausgewählter länder. der euro ist dazu bestimmt, die einheitliche währung der europäischen union als ganzes zu sein. alle außer zwei mitgliedstaaten sind verpflichtet und berechtigt, dem euroraum beizutreten, sobald sie die bedingungen erfüllen. doch die mitgliedstaaten, die dem euroraum beitreten möchten, müssen dies auch tun können. deshalb schlage ich die schaffung eines euro-vorbeitrittsinstrumentes vor, das ihnen technische, manchmal auch finanzielle heranführungshilfen bietet. (beifall)wenn wir wollen, dass banken überall auf unserem kontinent nach denselben regeln und unter derselben aufsicht arbeiten, dann sollten wir alle mitgliedstaaten ermutigen, der bankenunion beizutreten. dazu müssen wir die verbleibenden risiken in den bankensystemen mancher mitgliedstaaten verringern. die bankenunion funktioniert nur, wenn die begrenzung und das teilen von risiken hand in hand gehen. um dies tun zu können – das weiß jeder –, müssen vorbedingungen erfüllt werden, so wie es die kommission im november 2015 vorgeschlagen hat. eine gemeinsame einlagensicherung kann es erst dann geben, wenn jeder seine nationalen hausaufgaben gemacht haben wird. wenn wir der sozialen fragmentierung und dem sozialdumping in europa ein ende setzen wollen, sollten die mitgliedstaaten sich so schnell wie möglich, spätestens beim göteborg-gipfel im november, auf die europäische säule sozialer rechte einigen. nationale sozialsysteme werden noch lange unterschiedlich und eigenständig bleiben. doch wir sollten uns zumindest auf eine europäische union der sozialstandards verständigen, in denen es einen konsens darüber gibt, was in unserem binnenmarkt sozial fair und was in unserem binnenmarkt sozial unfair ist. (beifall)ich bleibe davon überzeugt: damit europa gelingt, darf es den arbeitnehmern nicht die kalte schulter zeigen. wenn wir mehr stabilität in unserer nachbarschaft wollen, müssen wir auch eine glaubhafte erweiterungsperspektive für den westlichen balkan aufrechterhalten. (beifall)während dieses kommissions- und parlamentsmandats wird es keine neuen mitglieder geben, weil die beitrittsbedingungen nicht erfüllt werden können. doch die europäische union wird in den darauffolgenden jahren mehr als 27 mitglieder zählen. bei allen beitrittsländern haben rechtsstaatlichkeit, justiz und grundwerte oberste verhandlungspriorität. das schließt eine eu-mitgliedschaft der türkei in absehbarer zeit aus. (beifall)die türkei entfernt sich seit geraumer zeit mit riesenschritten von der europäischen union. journalisten gehören in redaktionsstuben, in denen freie meinungsäußerung gilt. sie gehören nicht ins gefängnis. (beifall)ich appelliere heute an die verantwortlichen in der türkei: lassen sie unsere journalisten frei, und nicht nur unsere! hören sie auf, unsere mitgliedstaaten, staats-und regierungschefs als faschisten und nazis zu beschimpfen! (beifall)europa ist ein kontinent reifer demokratien. wer aber bewusst beleidigt, verbaut sich wege zu ihnen. manchmal habe ich den eindruck, einige in der türkei möchten sich bewusst wege verbauen, um dann später die europäische union für das eventuelle scheitern der beitrittsgespräche haftbar machen zu können. von unserer seite wird immer eine hand ausgestreckt bleiben für das große türkische volk und all diejenigen, die bereit sind, auf der grundlage unserer werte mit ihr zusammenzuarbeiten. (beifall)meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! ich hätte gerne, dass unsere union stärker wird, und deshalb müssen wir auch den binnenmarkt stärken. ich möchte, dass wir in wichtigen binnenmarktfragen öfter und einfacher im rat mit qualifizierter mehrheit entscheiden unter gleichberechtigter mitwirkung des europäischen parlaments. dazu brauchen wir keine vertragsänderungen. die derzeitigen verträge enthalten sogenannte „brückenklauseln“, die es ermöglichen, in bestimmten fällen – vorausgesetzt, der europäische rat entscheidet dies einstimmig – mit qualifizierter mehrheit, statt einstimmig zu entscheiden. ich bin dafür, bei beschlüssen über die gemeinsame konsolidierte körperschaftsteuer-bemessungsgrundlage, über die mehrwertsteuer, über eine faire besteuerung der digitalwirtschaft und über die finanztransaktionssteuer die beschlussfassung mit qualifizierter mehrheit einzuführen. (beifall)europa muss nämlich schneller und effizienter entscheiden können. dies gilt auch in dem bereich, der darauf abstellt, die wirtschafts- und währungsunion handlungsfähiger zu machen. der euro-raum ist heute widerstandsfähiger als noch vor jahren. so haben wir unter anderem den europäischen stabilitätsmechanismus (esm) geschaffen. ich denke, der esm sollte nun schrittweise zu einem europäischen währungsfonds ausgebaut werden, der allerdings fest im regel- und kompetenzwerk der europäischen union verankert sein muss. die kommission wird hierzu im dezember konkrete vorschläge vorlegen. wir brauchen einen europäischen wirtschafts- und finanzminister, einen europäischen minister, der positive strukturreformen in unseren mitgliedstaaten fördert und unterstützt. er wird dabei auf der arbeit aufbauen können, die die kommission seit 2015 mit unserer sondereinheit zur unterstützung von strukturreformen leistet. der europäische wirtschafts- und finanzminister soll alle finanzierungsinstrumente der eu koordinieren, die in bewegung gebracht werden müssen, wenn ein mitgliedstaat von einer rezession oder einer fundamentalkrise betroffen wird. ich plädiere nicht für die schaffung eines neuen amtes. ich plädiere aus effizienzgründen dafür, dass der für wirtschaft und finanzen zuständige eu-kommissar – idealerweise ein vizepräsident der europäischen kommission – mit dieser aufgabe betraut und vorsitzender der eurogruppe wird. (beifall)der europäische wirtschafts- und finanzminister muss selbstverständlich dem europäischen parlament gegenüber rechenschaft ablegen. wir brauchen keine parallelstrukturen. wir benötigen deshalb keinen separaten euro-haushalt, sondern eine starke eurozonen-budgetlinie im rahmen unseres eu-haushalts. (beifall)ich kann auch der idee eines gesonderten europa-parlaments und eines gesonderten euro-parlaments wenig reiz abgewinnen. das parlament des euroraums ist dieses europäische parlament. (starker beifall)die europäische union muss auch stärker bei der gemeinsamen terrorbekämpfung werden. in den letzten drei jahren sind wir zwar auch diesbezüglich ein großes stück weitergekommen. doch im falle grenzübergreifender terroristischer bedrohungen reagieren wir nicht schnell genug. ich plädiere deshalb für die schaffung einer europäischen aufklärungseinheit, die sicherstellt, dass daten über terroristen und auslandskämpfer automatisch zwischen unseren nachrichten- und polizeidiensten ausgetauscht werden. (beifall)aus meiner sicht spricht auch vieles dafür, die neu geschaffene europäische staatsanwaltschaft mit der verfolgung von grenzübergreifenden terroristischen straftaten zu betrauen. die europäische union muss sich auch um mehr gewicht auf der weltbühne bemühen. um mehr gewicht zu erlangen, muss sie außenpolitische beschlüsse schneller fassen können. deshalb bitte ich die mitgliedstaaten zu prüfen, welche außenpolitischen beschlüsse nicht mehr einstimmig, sondern mit qualifizierter mehrheit gefasst werden können. der vertrag ließe dies zu, wenn denn der europäische rat dies einstimmig beschließt. wir brauchen auch in der außenpolitik mehrheitsentscheidungen, um effizient arbeiten zu können. (beifall)im verteidigungsbereich sind weitere anstrengungen vonnöten. die schaffung eines europäischen verteidigungsfonds steht auf der tagesordnung; die permanente strukturierte zusammenarbeit im verteidigungsbereich ist auf gutem weg. bis 2025 brauchen wir eine funktionierende europäische verteidigungsunion. wir brauchen sie. und die nato hätte sie gerne. nicht zuletzt möchte ich – in weiterführung der kommissionsbemühungen der letzten jahre –, dass sich unsere union stärker auf die wirklich wichtigen dinge konzentriert. wir sollten die bürger europas nicht mit regelungs-klein-klein nerven, sondern in großen dingen größe zeigen, nicht pausenlos neue initiativen vom zaun brechen und befugnisse, dort wo es sinnvoll ist, an die nationalstaaten zurückgeben. (beifall)deshalb hat diese kommission versucht, in großen dingen größe zu zeigen und sich – und das hat sie getan – in kleinen dingen zurückzuhalten. sie hat weniger als 25 neue initiativen pro jahr vorgelegt, während es bei den vorgänger-kommissionen noch weit über 100 waren. um die begonnene arbeit sinnvoll zu ende zu führen, setzen wir noch in diesem monat eine task force subsidiarität und verhältnismäßigkeit ein. der erste vizepräsident, mein freund frans timmermans, der sich jetzt schon erfolgreich um bessere rechtssetzung verdient gemacht hat, wird diese task force leiten. dieser timmermans-task-force werden auch mitglieder dieses parlaments und der nationalen parlamente angehören. in einem jahr ist bericht zu erstatten. monsieur le président, mesdames, messieurs, notre union a besoin d’un saut démocratique. je souhaiterais que les partis politiques européens lancent leur campagne pour les prochaines élections européennes plus tôt que par le passé. trop souvent, les campagnes électorales européennes ont été réduites à une simple addition de propositions électorales nationales. la démocratie européenne mérite mieux. aujourd’hui, la commission propose d'adopter de nouvelles règles sur le financement des partis et des fondations politiques. il ne s’agit pas de renflouer les caisses des extrémistes qui sont contre l’europe, il s’agit de permettre aux partis européens de mieux pouvoir s’articuler. (applaudissements) je n’ignore pas que l’idée est contestée par plus que quelques-uns, mais je dois vous dire que j’ai de la sympathie pour l’idée de présenter des listes transnationales aux élections européennes. (applaudissements) et j’essaierai de convaincre le président de mon groupe parlementaire de me suivre dans cette ambition, qui ajoute de la démocratie et de la clarté à l'europe. (applaudissements)je pense également qu’au cours des prochains mois, nous devrions associer les parlements nationaux et la société civile au niveau national, régional et local aux travaux sur l’avenir de l’europe. au cours des trois dernières années, les membres de la commission, comme nous l’avions promis, ont rendu visite aux parlements nationaux à plus de 650 reprises, ils ont participé à plus de 300 dialogues avec les citoyens dans plus de 80 villes dans 27 états membres. c’est pourquoi je soutiens l’idée du président macron d’organiser des conventions démocratiques dans toute l’europe en 2018. à mesure que le débat se développera, j’accorderai une attention particulière à l’estonie, à la lettonie, à la lituanie et à la roumanie. 2018 est l’année où ces quatre pays célébreront leur centième anniversaire. ceux qui ont pour ambition de façonner l’avenir de notre continent doivent connaître et honorer notre histoire commune et donc l’histoire des quatre pays mentionnés, pays sans lesquels l’union européenne ne serait pas complète. (applaudissements)le besoin de renforcer la démocratie et la transparence a évidemment des conséquences pour la commission européenne. aujourd’hui, je transmets au parlement européen un nouveau code de conduite des commissaires. tout d’abord, ce nouveau code précise que les commissaires peuvent se présenter dans des conditions normales comme candidats aux élections européennes. il est évident que le nouveau code renforcera les obligations des commissaires en matière d’intégrité pendant et après leur mandat. qui veut renforcer la démocratie européenne ne peut pas accepter que le petit progrès démocratique que constitua l’innovation des têtes de liste «spitzenkandidaten» ne soit pas renouvelé. je voudrais que l’expérience soit poursuivie. (applaudissements)et je ne serai pas candidat. plus de démocratie veut dire plus d’efficacité. l’efficacité européenne gagnerait en force si nous pouvions fusionner les présidences du conseil européen et de la commission européenne. (applaudissements)cette proposition ne vise en rien mon excellent ami donald, avec qui je collabore harmonieusement et en toute complicité depuis le début de notre mandat. cette proposition ne vise ni donald, ni moi-même. le paysage européen serait tout simplement plus lisible, plus compréhensible si le navire européen était piloté par un seul capitaine. le fait d’avoir un seul président refléterait mieux la véritable nature de notre union européenne, à la fois comme union des états et comme union des citoyens. (applaudissements) mes chers collègues, la vision d’une europe plus unie, plus forte, plus démocratique que je présente aujourd’hui associe des éléments de tous les scénarios que je vous ai exposés en mars dernier. mais notre avenir ne peut pas rester un simple scénario, une esquisse, une idée parmi d’autres, c’est aujourd’hui que nous devons préparer l’union de demain. j’ai envoyé ce matin au président tajani, au président tusk, ainsi qu’aux futures présidences tournantes du conseil d’ici à mars 2019, une feuille de route indiquant la direction que nous devrions suivre. sont importantes à cet égard les propositions budgétaires que la commission présentera en mai 2018. là encore, nous avons le choix: soit nous cantonnons les ambitions de l’union européenne au cadre strict du budget actuel, soit nous augmentons la capacité budgétaire de l’union européenne pour qu’elle puisse mieux répondre à ses ambitions. je suis pour la deuxième solution. (applaudissements) le 29 mars 2019, le royaume-uni quittera l’union européenne. ce sera à la fois un moment triste et tragique. nous le regretterons toujours et vous le regretterez bientôt. (applaudissements) mais nous devons respecter la volonté du peuple britannique, mais nous allons avancer. nous allons avancer parce que le brexit n’est pas tout, parce que le brexit ce n’est pas le futur de l’europe. le 30 mars 2019, nous serons une union à 27. je propose que nous nous y préparions bien. les élections au parlement européen auront lieu à peine quelques semaines plus tard, en mai 2019. ce sera un rendez-vous important avec la démocratie européenne. il faudra que les citoyens européens se rendent aux urnes en ayant une vision claire de la manière dont l’union européenne évoluera dans les années à venir. c’est pourquoi j’invite le président tusk et la roumanie, qui exercera la présidence au cours du premier semestre de 2019, à organiser un sommet spécial en roumanie le 30 mars 2019. mon vœu serait que ce sommet se tienne dans la belle ville de sibiu, aussi connue sous le nom de hermannstadt. cela devrait être le moment de nous réunir pour prendre les décisions nécessaires à la construction d’une europe plus unie, plus forte, plus démocratique. mon espoir est que, le 30 mars 2019, les européens se réveilleront dans une union où nous défendrons toutes nos valeurs, où tous les états membres respecteront sans réserve l’état de droit, où être membre à part entière de la zone euro, de l’union bancaire, de l’espace schengen sera devenu la norme pour tout un chacun, où nous aurons consolidé les fondements de notre union économique et monétaire afin de pouvoir défendre notre monnaie unique en toutes circonstances, bonnes ou mauvaises, sans avoir à recourir à une aide extérieure et où notre marché unique sera plus équitable pour les travailleurs de l’est comme de l’ouest. je voudrais que les européens puissent se réveiller dans une europe où nous aurons réussi à nous mettre d’accord sur un solide socle de normes sociales, où les bénéfices seront imposés là où ils sont réalisés, où les terroristes ne trouveront aucune faille à exploiter et où nous nous serons mis d’accord sur la création d’une véritable union européenne de la défense, où un président unique conduira à terme les travaux de la commission et du conseil européen, après avoir été élu à l’issue d’une campagne électorale paneuropéenne démocratique. monsieur le président, si le 30 mars 2019 nos citoyens se réveillent dans cette union-là, l’union européenne sera une union qui aura répondu à leurs attentes justifiées. mesdames et messieurs les députés, helmut kohl et jacques delors, que j’ai eu l’honneur de côtoyer, m’ont appris que l’europe n’avance que quand elle fait preuve d’audace. le marché unique, l’espace schengen, la monnaie unique: voilà des idées et des projets qui ont été considérés à leur naissance comme de simples vues de l’esprit. pourtant, aujourd’hui, ces trois réalisations majeures font partie de notre quotidien. maintenant que l’europe va mieux, on me dit qu’il ne faut pas surcharger la barque européenne mais il ne faut pas, à l’heure où nous sommes, pécher par excès de prudence. nous sommes en train de réparer le toit de l’europe mais, aujourd’hui et demain, nous devons patiemment, étage par étage, moment après moment, inspiration après inspiration, continuer à ajouter de nouveaux étages à la maison europe. il faut parachever la maison europe maintenant qu’il fait beau et tant qu’il fait beau, parce que quand les nuages se formeront à l’horizon – et ils vont se former un jour –, il sera trop tard. alors, larguons les amarres, «leinen los» comme disent les allemands, mettons les voiles et profitons des vents favorables. je vous remercie de votre attention. (l’assemblée, debout, applaudit l’orateur)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not europe needs courage and europe needs optimism and creativity. we heard that in jean-claude juncker's speech today. i thank you for this start and i thank the european commission as a whole for the hard work it is doing for our continent. trust is built on action, so we must talk about our successes - as jean-claude juncker did. the paris agreement, ceta, effective border protection, more money for africa, growth in europe, reduction of unemployment: people, many people in europe, are doing better today than in previous years. we deliver, and when i say 'we deliver', i want to say explicitly that the european parliament is 'the house of commons of europe'. the commission is only a commission because of the european parliament's powers of enforcement. the first political commission is a child of this house, a child of parliamentarians, a child of european democracy, and that is why we can be proud of what we have achieved together: parliament and the commission are going in the same direction. what's the point now? i welcome, on behalf of the epp group, the ideas of our president of the commission on the deepening of our european union. the world is not waiting for us. we must move forward now. but i do not want to talk about treaties and institutions today, i want to argue for the epp group from the point of view of the people. and that's where people see the rough wind of globalization. they are afraid of social dumping, of unemployment. we europeans are confronted with our idea of a social market economy: justice, secure jobs and fair wages. the idea that property binds. the idea that strong unions can offer big business parole. we say yes to trade, to world trade, but we also say yes to protecting our nuclear industry and protecting social standards in the european union. the european way of life is social, and the weak are the focus of our efforts as the epp. many people are afraid to open up a second perspective in the face of the images of the many people arriving at our external border as illegal immigrants. they don't believe politicians anymore who say it's good for us. they fear for their culture and their identity, and that's why we must do everything we can to secure and control our borders. not to build a wall around europe, but to ensure that illegal migration breach of the law is stopped. the european way of life helps people in need, but it also works hard to secure the borders against illegal migration and the smuggling gangs. both are necessary, and we need to make it clear that integration means respecting and practicing our guiding culture, our values and our laws. the citizens of europe should be linked to these fundamental values, and all the others must leave europe too. a third concern expressed by people is the view of turkey. many people are shocked when they look at it: people are being arrested, imprisoned, the constitution has been changed, the rule of law is being undermined. turkey is moving away from europe. people do not understand why europe does not act now. we as the european parliament have made it clear that we must suspend the accession talks in order to send a signal that there can be no more such a thing in the current situation, and i wonder why the european council and, dear jean-claude juncker, the european commission are so hesitant to respond to this. we in parliament believe that a clear signal is necessary. our european way of life requires honesty in our relations with our neighbours. many people are afraid of terrorism barcelona and turku this summer and many say that islam is a danger. during the attack on charlie hebdo in paris two years ago, a french policeman was executed by the terrorists. his name was ahmed merabet. he was a muslim who gave his life to defend the freedom of journalists. it is not a conflict between christians and muslims. it is a conflict between humanity and barbarism, between values and terrorism, between our european way of life and the madness of the terrorists. (applause) i would like to thank we must exchange our information now immediately and data protection must not be turned into protection of terrorists. the european way of life protects the freedom of religion. it does not know national egoism when fighting together against the terrible acts of terrorists. many people as a last perspective from the peoples point of view are afraid when they look eastwards. in a few days, a maneuver of the russian and belarusian armies will start at the borders to our baltic states, about 100,000 soldiers directly on our border. many people are afraid. after the wars in georgia, ukraine and syria, what is putin planning now? the european way is to defend ourselves and that is why the ideas of the european defence union are going in a good direction. we need them now. (applause) i would like to thank so this is why we should stop nord stream 2. our security has priority over making money. (applause) i would like to thank finally, there are a few other perspectives from the people's point of view what they are asking us to do and we have to give proper answers. let's act now. but with regard to all these points, i think there is a need to combine them and to bring them together. that is, from an epp point of view, to defend and to defend in the future the european way of life. in the past our founding fathers of the european union achieved peace. they were successful because they believed in themselves. today we must defend the identity of europe. today we must defend the european way of life in a world that is changing rapidly and we want to be successful. let's start now. (applause) i would like to thank
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i am speaking not on behalf of the council; the council cannot have a position on this. speaking on behalf of the estonian presidency of the council, i thank president juncker for his ambitious, clear and, most importantly, thoughtful speech. at this moment, with the wind in our sails, we should bear in mind a couple of lessons that the last couple of years have taught us. first, that we who care for our union must have the courage to make the positive case for the eu. it is not only the right thing to do, but it also may pay off in elections. secondly, we should not be afraid of speaking of the cost of non-eu: of the consequences of (so far, thank god) only hypothetical rolling back some advantages of european integration. thirdly, we must keep looking for issues, initiatives and ways that unite us, and not those that pose a risk of dividing member states. we should look for initiatives that balance things and build bridges. for instance, it is much easier to talk about the eu social pillar – something that the estonian presidency will duly take forward – when we simultaneously take real steps in deepening the single market, in particular in the field of services. so not only better paid jobs but also better access to these jobs. fourthly, of course we must keep developing the eu further, but doing this, we must not forget that this time around, in 2017, it is not the institutional setup that is most important – it is important, of course – but reshaping the institutions must go hand in hand with providing concrete benefits for our citizens. our citizens must be at the centre of our attention, and delivering concrete benefits for citizens is what the guiding principle of the estonian presidency is. for the last few years, we have all been working on building a digital single market. the free movement of data is one of its cornerstones. we need to ensure that european citizens and businesses are able to benefit from data and that we create no new barriers to the single market. as with the eu’s other freedoms, free movement does not mean freedom from rules. next year, new eu personal data protection rules come into force, and we look forward to starting work on the commission’s new proposal on the free flow of data. thank you, president juncker, for this proposal. member states have repeatedly emphasised that legislation in this area is necessary. the estonian presidency will now move swiftly, attempting to consolidate member states’ positions on the concrete proposal. as we grow europe’s data economy and enter the era of the internet of things, cyber security becomes a matter for everyone. we welcome the renewal of the eu cybersecurity strategy proposed by the commission. cybersecurity is a challenge that cannot be tackled by any member state on its own. we all need to fulfil our responsibilities by fully implementing the existing eu legislation and must deploy all parts of our toolbox, working on the new legislation and engaging with the private sector. the eu also has an important role to play, setting international norms, pursuing cybercriminals, standing up for european values such as freedom and privacy, guiding the development of the global market for secure products and services, and reacting to states that sponsor and support malicious cyber activity. the eu heads of state and government will address these key issues at the tallinn digital summit on 29 september. i earlier listed some recent lessons for the eu. we have also learned that, while strengthening the eu internally is, of course, key for the health and functioning of the union itself, at the same time, to be and to appear strong, the eu also needs to remain engaged and open to the outside world. we are a model to a number of countries in our neighbourhood, and we should not forget it. the eu’s transformative power is still very much there. the eastern partnership summit in november is an opportunity to reconfirm our commitment to our neighbours’ positive transformation. in the field of trade, the eu must perform a tough balancing act. president juncker laid out very eloquently the elements of it. we, of course, welcome the message that we can now proceed with the free trade agreements with australia and new zealand and to expand the network of liberal trade relations in this globalised world. the commission has gone a long way with its reflection paper on harnessing globalisation and deserves to be commended for that. with regard to the proposals on investments and the multilateral investment court, as the presidency we will make our best efforts to proceed in the best possible way to build a consensus among the member states, in a manner that will enable the eu to continue its leading role in trade policy. with regard to migration: the crisis which shook the fundamentals of the eu and showed that the eu does not the really have a headquarters to manage an acute operational crisis. the eu does not have a general, if you will. this is not to say that we have not achieved a lot in the field of migration. work on the external dimension is going well, and, maybe for the first time, the union is using all the tools in its foreign policy toolbox at the same time: assistance, development, trade, military operation, and even enlargement policy. the estonian presidency is working hard on migration issues, not least while carrying forward work on a common asylum system. on legal migration, we eagerly started working with the european parliament on the blue card directive. on security, we are ready to engage with the parliament on ets and, hopefully, on sis initiatives. and of course, we are confident that an inclusive and ambitious permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence can be launched by the end of this year. ladies and gentlemen, the speech by president juncker and the debate we have had so far shows us once more that in our union there is much more of what unites us than what creates tensions. estonia, a country that was deprived of the advantages of european integration during its first 40 years, feels that particularly deeply. that is the compass while we act as a member state; that is our compass, especially while we are performing the duties of the presidency of the council of the eu, with the wind in our sails.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a year or two ago, the mood was bad. president juncker said: 'we have a window of opportunity at the moment and we should make the most of it in the coming months. but manfred weber said: many people are worried, for example, about globalisation. let us seize the opportunities for our workers and citizens in the coming weeks, for example by rapid and transparent negotiations with australia and new zealand. but please also help us to protect our workers better. we must urgently complete the reform of our trade defence instruments and we must also adopt as quickly as possible the instrument against strategic foreign investment proposed today in order to prevent further damage to our industrial base. secondly, many people are concerned about jobs - in germany at the moment several hundred thousand in the automotive sector. we are all upset by the breach of trust, but on the other hand, we must also consider jobs when it comes to climate change. we need climate protection and cars and jobs - we do not need climate protection instead of cars and jobs - and here again i call on all of us to pay attention to this in our legislative projects in the coming weeks and months. i would like to make one further comment on the transnational lists, mr president. many citizens have the impression that we are too far removed from the rest of europe, that some of us here in parliament are far from the citizenry. we urgently need more closeness to the citizens, and we are convinced that such a transnational list does not create more closeness to the citizens but more distance from them, and that is why we are quite clearly opposed to such a list.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not they have spent 60 minutes drawing castles in the air, creating illusions, creating illusions which have no real basis, which do not address the real problems of the european union. if you have spoken about the reality of the european union, you have thought it right to talk about fish sticks and vaccinations and the cocoa content of chocolate. but it is about the big problems that need to be tackled. and you didn't come up with a solution. you have spoken of the rule of law, but you have not mentioned that the maastricht treaty has been broken, that the fiscal compact has been violated hundreds of times, that the dublin agreement has been broken again and again, that the european central bank is still breaking the treaty on european union and is practicing monetary state financing. as long as you do not address these problems, as long as you create illusions about a juncker plan - a plan that bears your name and has allegedly generated €220 billion in investment, with the promotional banks saying that there is in fact no project that we would not have supported anyway - as long as you do not address the real problems of europe, the european union will not emerge from the crisis.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. almost more presidents than colleagues here. but never mind. in the last three years, i have done a great job as an mep: i sent the british home, i removed martin schulz from power and demoted him to the spd's candidate for chancellor, and i made sure that helmut kohl's old chancellorship was taken off the grid, dismantled and safely stored. but i have failed to teach the orbán regime and the polish pis party basic democratic values. i am particularly proud that the eu has now adopted an idea of my party's own: that of a wall, a wall around europe. we have recently called for a ceiling on refugees, in line with the views of the christian union parties. germany should not have to absorb more than the mediterranean sea annually. and now - before the mediterranean is full - the eu is building a wall in the sahara, in the broken states of mali, niger and chad. in conclusion, i would like to apologize to all the foreigners here for the fact that so many important decisions had to be postponed until after the elections in germany. one good week, and then a party will rule again. (cheering and applause)
i have to say, madam president, we are a parliament where freedom of speech is allowed. we are a parliament where everyone can say whatever he wants. but when you talk about a dead man in the way mr sonneborn has just spoken about helmut kohl, that is unacceptable. i demand that the bureau look into this. this is not the behaviour of a member of parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is also proposing to you gave a speech that more than meets your own standards. she was bold. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. i would add that the same applies to the north-south relationship. i have rarely been so disgusted in recent years as when i had to read in the newspapers of my own newspapers in germany: 'if you want coal, sell us corfu'. that was the bullshit of politicians that was quoted, and i thank you for not only never participating in it, but for resisting it. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i know it's not your level, but we can't say, the economic policy of the european union is determined by who is in power. whether greece gets a debt cut is a technical question. but it has nothing to do with whether or when your party friends should be back in power. we need a new policy - a policy of solidarity with the south - so that the south can develop. but we need the south in a burning world. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the debate today showed that jean-claude juncker can count on the support of parliament for this programme and we showed political diversity. that is the nature of a parliament. i just want to react to three points. one is about the debate on legal migration. everybody is in favour of high—skilled workers being able to arrive in europe with a blue card. there is no debate about this. but we have to be frank. do we really think that more legal migration to the european union will solve the illegal migration problem? how many africans do we invite to come to europe? do we really think that this will solve the problem? on behalf of my group, i think that, first of all, we have to bear in mind the millions of young europeans who at the moment have no jobs. we cannot say to them that we are opening the door for more legal migration when they themselves have no jobs. the second point is about the transnational list. everybody wants to strengthen european democracy and i have to be clear to jean-claude juncker that the ppe is not in favour of this transnational list because we are not convinced – guy – about the main argument because, yes, the european parliament is more than 27 individual votes. that is clear. but, sorry, the overwhelming majority of all the members of this parliament show every day that we are not only national meps, but we are doing a transnational job today. we think in all our interests and that is why an additional list is not necessary for this. i am from germany. i cannot elect angela merkel in my constituency in bavaria because in germany we only have regional lists. so if that works even in germany, it can also work in europe. finally, on the social union, so for gianni. first of all, very seriously, when we talk about climate change, the socialists are in favour of fighting against climate change, as are the greens and the ppe. when we talk about trade, then we have a good understanding that we are in favour of trade and when we talk about a social union, then please admit that other groups are also defending social principles in this european union. social policy is not occupied by the socialists, frankly speaking, it is an issue for all of us. when you ask us, as the ppe, to look into the social union, look first at reality. in countries where the socialists govern or governed – france or italy for example – we have a big unemployment problem, and in a lot of countries where the ppe is governing – in germany and in ireland – we have a good economic situation. that is why we are working on the social union and you are only speaking about the social union. (applause)
in writing. i welcome this year's state of the union address by mr juncker. i thought he was a beacon of hope. after the many crises of the past few years, it has shown that we are on the right track. europe has the wind in its sails again a good picture to describe the state of europe. progress is being made, but the destination seems uncertain. i therefore support mr juncker in saying that we must win back the hearts and minds of europeans. we must act now so that the citizens can see that we understand their concerns in europe and that we have the will to change. the citizens must see and understand the added value of the eu again. many of the points raised by juncker may sound like visions, but we need visionaries in europe again. how the visions unfold in detail may be left to be seen.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i ask that the matter be referred back to the envi committee for interinstitutional negotiations in accordance with the fourth subparagraph of rule 59 (4).
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not the diesel scandal we are talking about today is a triple scandal: it is a health scandal, it is a consumer protection scandal and it is also a political scandal. the diesel scandal is a health scandal, because the situation in many european cities is dramatic. every year, 72,000 people in the european union die from nitrogen oxide in the air. that's almost three times the number of people killed in traffic accidents. diesel cars are one of the main polluters of the air in our big cities. so they have to be upgraded consistently. cheap software updates, like the federal government has agreed with the auto industry, just aren't enough. the car industry must get to the hardware and clean up its filth - this applies to all of europe. dirty vws, audis or even renaults drive on austrian, spanish and everywhere on all roads, just like on german. i would therefore very much like, mr katainen and mrs bienkoswka, that the european commission should present measures for the retrofitting of diesel cars throughout europe this autumn. we need uniform standards for the retrofitting of the diesel fleet so that it is fully in line with european law. because that is not happening at the moment, the car manufacturers are clearly breaking european law, and it is your job to make sure that european law is being respected. so here we have a prime example. i would ask you to ensure that diesel vehicles in europe are finally complying with the limit values. secondly, as i said, the diesel scandal is a massive consumer protection scandal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the car manufacturers, on the other hand, get away with it. there are no fines, no compulsory withdrawal, no general compensation payments. this is a huge mess, something like this shakes people's faith in the rule of law. it is quite right that the commission has now launched an infringement procedure against germany and also against other member states which are following a complete policy of dealing with the car industry and have not even envisaged effective sanctions. but these infringement proceedings are not enough. we also need better litigation rights for ngos and class actions. if governments fail, at least environmental organizations and consumers must be able to ensure that they themselves can effectively enforce their rights. thirdly, the diesel scandal is a political scandal. the german government has put up a political fence around the car industry. the german diesel summit was the company's summit. the german government has thus de facto approved the breach of european law by the german car industry. she's letting the auto industry get away with collusion and trickery. if governments and authorities turn a blind eye to the manipulations, then a european solution is needed. we need european tests, the commission must carry out its own sampling and monitor the car industry rigorously so that there are no loopholes, so that there are no more fake tests. if member states really cared about clean air and the health of their citizens, they would finally have to accept these powerful independent tests. the car company has done enough damage. the time has come to stand shoulder to shoulder with the citizens of europe and the consumers of europe. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is now almost two years since it was revealed in september 2015 that, based on the findings of the united states environmental protection agency, the vehicle manufacturer volkswagen had used a hidden software to allow diesel engine cars to pass nitrogen oxide, commonly referred to as nox, emissions tests by the american regulating authorities, while the same car models were proven to emit up to 40 times the legal limit of nitrogen oxides in real world driving. the shock wave resulting from this large-scale deception is still felt everywhere. at the same time, we seem to discover more and more repercussions. doubts persist as to the proper testing of car models of other brands as well. many actions have been taken at national, but also at union, level, first of all to investigate the proceedings. in this regard, let me highlight the meticulous and intensive work of the committee on emissions measurements in the automotive sector, which finalised its report in march of this year. the report concluded that the responsibilities of the member states and the commission as regards the binding emission limits were not respected. it concluded that the fact that there were large discrepancies between nox emissions in diesel cars measured in the laboratories and on the road had been known to many stakeholders since at least 2005. but the dieselgate scandal is just one aspect of a much wider problem. in europe, we have 400 000 premature deaths due to bad air quality. that is one of the reasons why we need very ambitious laws and the political will to put them into practice. in this context, regulatory standards are one important element. decisive action has been taken here, for instance by reaching an agreement between the two co-legislators on the national emissions ceiling directive, which entered into force on 31 december 2016 and must be transposed by 30 june 2018. this directive sets stricter national limits for the period 2020-2029, and from 2030 onwards, for the emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds, ammonia and fine particulate matter. on procedures to test emissions from cars, major steps have been taken by the commission. under the provisions that entered into force this month, new car models will have to pass new and more reliable emission tests in real driving conditions before they can be driven on european roads. this test will complement and improve laboratory tests for all emissions, including co2 and fuel consumption, as well as nox and other air pollutants. both tests will be phased in for all new cars between 2018 and 2019. furthermore, work on an overhaul of the european vehicle type-approval framework is under way. on the basis of the general approach adopted by the council on 29 may this year, the presidency is firmly committed to taking forward negotiations on the proposal on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and we are working constructively with parliament. my impression from the first trilogue that took place on 6 september is that both co-legislators are eager to agree in the forthcoming trilogues on a robust legislation that reinforces type-approval procedures, enhances market surveillance and makes the system more transparent. of similar importance is that the strategies that have been developed to accelerate the effective emission reductions move from the stage of policy incentives to large-scale market activity. this concerns in particular the low emission strategies, including the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure. one of the openers will be urban bus fleets, which are mostly diesel-based today and have the power to make a difference on the market. the commitments undertaken by european cities and agglomerations during this summer to progressively convert their bus fleets into alternative fuel fleets are more than impressive, as the launch of the clean bus deployment initiative by the commission and the committee of the regions on 13 july this year clearly shows. these initiatives are being strongly supported by the european union institutions, including the commission, the european investment bank and the committee of the regions, and the presidency welcomes all efforts by public transport companies that will join in these actions. in terms of policy action, the most important long-term effort rests with the modal shift, converting road transport into train and waterway transport. for instance, it has to be noted that, under the eu funding sources for implementing the strategy for trans-european networks in transport, around 87% of the connecting europe facility co-funding of eur 21.4 billion for transport has been thus far dedicated to rail and inland waterways projects. however, these efforts require perseverance, as we cannot deny that certain trends work in favour of road transport, for instance, the increase in deliveries directly to the consumers. more remains to be done. the emissions scandal has shown that we need in particular better car testing and good market surveillance. the presidency is putting its best efforts forward to achieve progress in these areas. together with the eu member states and the eu institutions, we need to decisively pursue eu-wide efforts to foster low emissions mobility.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me first thank honourable members for this opportunity to provide them with an update on recent developments on the emissions scandal. when elżbieta bieńkowska met you last time in april to discuss this case, she pledged, on behalf of the commission, that we would fully follow up on the conclusions of the committee on emissions in the automotive sector in the final report and its recommendations. today i can assure you that our commitment remains strong and that the commission is acting simultaneously on three fronts: first, better enforcement, second, better market surveillance, and, third, better rules for the future. let me first say a few words on better enforcement. in april we informed you that the commission is pursuing several infringement procedures against member states. these member states had either omitted to lay down sanctions for breaches of the obligations on the car manufacturers or had not effectively applied such sanctions, even after the manipulations were discovered. since then, a further infringement procedure was launched in may 2017 against italy for failure to take action against fiat for the use of prohibited defeat devices. let me be very clear: we are determined to pursue these infringement procedures so as to ensure proper enforcement of the current type—approval legislation and to avoid additional non—compliant cars entering the european market, which would aggravate the existing air quality problem. second, regarding better market surveillance, in addition to these enforcement actions the commission also urges member states to do their part and ensure compliance of the existing diesel fleet with the type—approval rules. in this context, we are happy to see that, after the first round of national negotiations in the emissions scandal in 2016, a second round was launched in early 2017. there are some enforcement actions underway. french authorities have been investigating possible irregularities in diesel vehicles from renault and psa since january. german authorities have been following up on irregularities in diesel vehicles produced by daimler, audi and porsche since june, and, more recently, by ford. the dutch authorities also continue their investigations and notably withdrew two vehicle types from jeep and suzuki respectively with the intention of public prosecution. as for the vehicles of the volkswagen group which were at the origin of the emissions scandal and as such were already identified as non—compliant with current emission rules, a recall campaign by the manufacturer is underway across the eu. according to the information available to the commission, at the end of july 2017, more than half of the 8.4 million vehicles of the vw group affected across the eu had already been recalled. together with the member states, the commission will continue to monitor the repair of the remaining vehicles of the vw group so that all affected vehicles will eventually be brought to conformity by autumn 2017. in this context, we welcome the decision of four member states – austria, germany, finland and portugal – which have made their recall campaigns mandatory. on 17 july, elżbieta bieńkowska sent a letter to all ministers urging them to follow the mandatory and voluntary measures already taken in germany, france and the netherlands. so far 16 of the member states have replied. we will provide you with a complete overview of member states’ positions once we have a full picture. however, concerns have been expressed by consumer associations and individual car owners about the full compliance of the remedial measures with the type—approval legislation and their impact on vehicles’ durability and fuel consumption. in this context, on 7 september 2017, the eu consumer authorities, together with the commission, urged volkswagen to properly retrofit all affected cars and to inform consumers in a fully transparent and detailed manner about what has been achieved and what remains to be done. i can assure you that we will continue to monitor vw’s action plan on the affected vehicles. the commission also welcomes the initiative of germany and austria, which organised national diesel summits on 2 august and 22 august respectively. this is a step forward and others should follow. but we have to keep in mind that the measures proposed by the industry have to lead to an effective reduction of emissions on the road and not only in the laboratory. that is the only way to avoid so-called diesel bans that are being discussed in some member states as a reaction to the scandal. thirdly, regarding better rules, let me start by reminding you that, as from 1 september 2017, improved testing procedures, both in laboratory conditions and in real driving conditions, have become mandatory for all new vehicle types. we are also working to increase the transparency and control of emissions from vehicles by allowing independent parties to test used vehicles. this will come with the new real driving emission regulation foreseen for spring 2018. as foreseen by law, we pursue work to review, and possibly to bring down, the conformity factors used to translate the measurements on the road to those in the lab. we expect to be able to lower them already with the upcoming new real driving emission regulation. last but not least, we welcome the start of the first trilogue on the revised type—approval framework, which took place on 6 september. we salute the co-legislators’ ambition to finalise this revision by the end of the year. the new framework will reinforce the independence of testing, which will remain a national responsibility, but at the same time reinforce its european oversight. i hope that we can work together and use the political momentum to establish a strong set of rules and control mechanisms in order to regain consumers’ confidence and improve the quality of the air they breathe. finally, despite current turbulence, our ambition remains the same: that europe continues to be a leader in clean, competitive and connected mobility. to put it simply, we want to make sure that it is europe that produces the best low—emission, connected and automated mobility solutions, equipment and vehicles. to this end, the commission has already presented the first part of the mobility package. the second part will be delivered later this year. with this package we will present an integrated and future—oriented approach to mobility. this will be our guide on how to face disruptive developments which are ahead of the transport sector, how to modernise it and how to exploit its potential to modernise the entire eu economy. i trust we have a shared responsibility to make this agenda for a socially fair transition towards clean, competitive and connected mobility a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i come from a car supply region in eastern germany where 40% of all manufactured goods are in some way connected with car manufacturing. wherever you go and whoever you talk to about workers, there is a fear that they will eventually pay for the stubbornness of the vain gooks of the automotive industry. two years after the emissions scandal was uncovered, it is clear that despite the evidence of the damage caused to the environment and people by emissions, despite multi-billion-dollar lawsuits against the emissions fraudsters, the threat of driving bans, the highly critical results of the eu committees in brussels, but also in berlin, are still being debated. it just keeps going. and there are even millions of research dollars being spent on a clean diesel, as i read recently, although its death knell has been heard for a long time. clean diesel, ladies and gentlemen, we all know is as clean as ccs coal. it's an illusion of the eternal past. it is therefore all the more necessary that the commission does not cower before the german government and take a really strong stance against the production of dirt-throwers. we need more stringent regulations on emissions, we need uniform type-approval - we have discussed this for a long time - the strictest controls and, please, no apologies for cartels, which are nothing more than organized crime at their core. we need market transparency, litigation-proof protective rights for defrauded car buyers, and we need them across europe. we on the left are committed to the need for a shift towards electric mobility, and that is not easy. we call on the trade unions to do the same, to finally confront these normal developments. we need bold eu programmes for renewable energy and electric mobility and an infrastructure for this, and we need the expansion of public transport, attractive carsharing to protect the environment and people. we must act now before it's too late!
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! so let's talk about the diesel today. firstly, those in the automobile industry who have cheated, who have manipulated, must be held fully accountable. the president of the commission also underlined this this morning. secondly, i believe that in all other measures, neither drivers nor vehicle owners should be burdened. i therefore think that retrofitting of the vehicles concerned is right, but i am opposed to urban driving bans, as is being called for by the greens in particular. i think that is wrong, because it punishes precisely those who are dependent on cars, who have to drive to the city centre every day - that is not a smart solution. i think we need to think further on this and i was pleased that the council representative also pointed out solutions: for example, that we are converting urban car parks to electric cars, improving the flow of traffic in cities and also promoting mobility through carsharing models. these are the right approaches. i would also point out that 23 of the 28 member states do not comply with the nitrogen oxide standards. but the issue of driving bans and retrofitting is only discussed in germany, although it is not really a german problem. thirdly, i think it is wrong to give the internal combustion engine, and in particular diesel, a blanket victory. we'll need diesel for decades to come, and i have to say, i don't share the belief in electric cars. i therefore also think that the eu quotas for electric cars are wrong.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i want to start with something positive, too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have heard a lot of criticism here today, for example, and rightly so, of the criminal manipulations at volkswagen or the very - i should like to say - sophisticated interpretations of the existing rules by the other manufacturers. and today the president of the commission has put the entire german and european automobile industry in the dock. the commission is making things a little too easy for itself. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and that's what matters. the commission has also opened the loopholes through which the car industry has slipped. the commission is not prepared to accept this. make sure we have clear rules in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the diesel scandal is the best example of what consumerism can lead to: the fraud of tens of millions of car buyers, the irresponsible taking of health risks, massive environmental damage and a loss of confidence in politics. the german government, which is known for its dubious intervention in brussels in the matter of the diesel issue, can only be described as complicit and a total political failure. the fact that we are not debating today much, much more intensively about adequate compensation for affected car buyers in the eu is proof to me that the european commission's automotive policy is being directed from the german chancellery. a free software update for a paid scam software is a slap in the face to the victims and the scammed. we would therefore be well advised to recommend an intellectual software update to all those politicians in brussels and berlin who are partly responsible for the diesel affair, otherwise the diesel scandal will end up looking like a legalized consumer fraud.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the diesel technology was introduced to meet the co2 targets, as has already been said. they thought about co2, but not about nox. there has been legislation at european level for some time now which also sets nox limit values. it is simply that nobody has taken care of it - neither the car industry, nor the commission, nor the governments concerned. we must remember that, and the committee of inquiry made that clear. that's why we need real driving emissions as soon as possible. we need to have honest values. consumers have bought diesel cars in good faith and need compensation. software retrofits are also possible, just as hardware retrofits are. we need to do more research into new ways of mobility. we don't need any driving bans or technology bans. driving bans are bad for commuters, technology bans are bad for commuters. in electric mobility, we have batteries, where child labor is being done in the cobalt mines in africa -- that's not environmentally friendly either. one last one: the european economy loses a billion euros every day because of congestion, and of course there are a lot of emissions that could be stopped. so intelligent transportation is a solution here, too.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. despite the emissions scandal, almost one in two cars in the european union runs on diesel. however, the share of diesel is decreasing. the commission, because diesel employs hundreds of thousands of people and because diesel emits dangerous nitrogen oxides which make sick people even sicker, we need a europe-wide action plan - only you as commission can do that. an action plan which first analyses changes in the value chain and then makes proposals for a reorientation of industrial policy. we know we're talking about electric mobility, hydrogen, hybrids, power-to-gas and so on. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. then people will no longer get sick or die, they will no longer be unemployed, and we will no longer lose our position as world leaders. but this big leap and this big step must first be taken by you as the european commission.
mr president, commission representatives, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the current diesel debate sometimes has a similar reality to that of the emissions figures in the test laboratory: almost none. because even in 20 years, there will still be diesel. it is and will remain a climate-friendly technology of the future, and will secure millions of jobs. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. unfortunately, she left after four minutes, and she doesn't seem to have any real interest in the debate. martin schulz is also calling for a european-wide quota for electric cars. he just doesn't want to drive himself. he would end up like the green party's former environment minister, johannes remmel. he bought an electric car at taxpayers' expense for over 100 000 euros and after only 34 trips, he exchanged it for a diesel. the battery was dead. we need fair competition between technologies, not a forced quota for clean air. and at the end of it, the consumer decides whether to drive a combustion engine, an electric car or innovative fuel technology like e-fuels. moreover, these innovative technologies already meet emission limits, however questionable they may be. the limit for nitrogen oxide in offices is 50% higher than on the street. how can the workplace limit in industry be almost 24 times higher at 960 micrograms than on the street? perhaps the commission can answer that question. these limits seem to have been set out of thin air. i think that our debate and the commission must also return to reality, just as in the rde tests.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a reminder, 23 out of 28 member states do not comply with limit values for nitrogen oxides, and virtually all european car manufacturers are responsible for exceeding the limit values in virtually all european member states. first of all, commissioner, i think that the commission must considerably broaden its criminal law perspective beyond the german borders. but i also think that the opponents of diesel should take note that in germany alone, nitrogen oxide emissions have fallen by 60% in the last 30 years, not increased. and now the electric car over everything? we get oil and gas from over 15 regions of the world, the rare earths for batteries only from china, and cobalt, mostly from the congo. do you really want these new addictions? we don't want that. the commission is therefore proposing to introduce a new system of energy efficiency in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of europe. and without diesel technology, we're not going to meet our carbon targets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as we know, facade fires are not a british phenomenon. all over the world, all over europe, people are dying of smoke inhalation, many of them as a result of burning facades, including in germany. five dead in a fire in cologne in 2005, three dead in a fire in duisburg last year, to name just two cases. one problem is called polystyrene foam. it is cheap, it is environmentally harmful, it is toxic and it encourages the spread of fire to other floors if no fire barriers are installed. we can learn from countries like austria or france, where fire barriers are mandatory on every floor. so we need european rules, which put a lid on the whole eu uniform rules, not just a discussion platform. we need a uniform and independent testing procedure - not only to protect the people who live in the houses, but also to ensure that our firefighters, who risk their own lives for us, can survive these operations without harm to their health. we can't bring the victims back, but we can prevent more victims.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not the report by the rapporteur on audiovisual media offers a good compromise which we should support in the majority. the scope of this directive therefore includes web and mobile offers relating to audiovisual media, while the audiovisual media service as such remains fully and definitively covered by the avmsd, including in terms of accessibility. we are on the right track here in the negotiations with the council. i am grateful to mr løkkegaard for the clarifications in both the article and the recital. we need clear boundaries to create legal certainty for all involved. i would also have liked to see a uniform standard for e-book readers, but not for the software, because i am convinced that the software will then follow the standard in the devices. i also see that the european accessibility act represents a compromise which has been difficult to balance. you can wish for more, i personally do. but at the same time we must also recognise what majorities we have. let us accept the compromise and yet not tire of continuing to fight tenaciously for better accessibility. we'll be a long way from the finish line.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's social partners are able to take part in the work of the european council in brussels. it is therefore urgent that we finally act and deliver on the commitment made by member states in 2008 to take substantial steps towards accessibility. the internal market committee has drawn up a good and balanced text to this end. firstly, we are extending the scope of the commission proposal to include payment terminals. secondly, unlike the commission, we are proposing a mandatory integration of the built environment, which means that in future new buildings and major renovations will have to be planned with accessibility in mind. but we also need rules that are realistic, feasible and future-proof and do not create unnecessary red tape. we therefore also advocate less bureaucratic solutions for smes and an exception for micro enterprises. we want to make room for new technologies and developments, and that is why we are also committed to an innovation-friendly approach in the annex. the accessibility act is thus another big and important step towards full accessibility and i very much hope that we can reach an agreement with the council and the commission as soon as possible so that the situation for people with disabilities can finally improve further and in a timely manner. i would therefore like to ask you all to vote tomorrow in favour of the committee on the internal market and thus enable us to achieve a good and quick result in favour of people with disabilities. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think it's great that the life expectancy of our citizens is increasing. this also means that in the eu, as many as 120 million people will soon be living with disabilities of varying degrees. they are not the only ones to receive our special attention. it's not about one part of society, it's about all of us. we must give all citizens the right to access services and products in their own right. as a co-founder of our disability intergroup, i've been working towards this goal for years. in the case of bus, rail, air and sea transport, there are already many special schemes for persons with reduced mobility. it already states that they must be offered assistance and must not be affected. the text to be voted on tomorrow should not be a repeal of existing legislation but a supplement to it. as far as the built environment is concerned, i think we need to extend the scale we have in rail transport to other modes of transport. that is why i support the compromise reached at imco. it is good that we go far beyond what the commission had originally proposed and do not leave it to the member states to choose but to oblige them to make the built environment, such as the railway platform and the bus station, barrier-free. this would be another good step towards increasing accessibility in a coherent way.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you all for your interventions, it was a fruitful exchange of views. i truly share your sadness and your concerns. we are indeed confronted with an extraordinary disaster and definitely, our thoughts are with the people in the affected areas. of course, i completely agree with you regarding the climate change role in this new phenomenon with devastating situations, hurricanes, many other completely new phenomena of the world’s conditions. we have to learn from this large-scale emergency and to respond in the best way possible. so prevention, preparedness and response are all essential and reinforce each other. i would also like to thank everyone who has cooperated in preparing for this unprecedented natural disaster and responding to it, inside the commission, but also in member states, in other european institutions and in the field on the ground. the european union is working on a continuous basis, 24/7, through our emergency response coordination centre in brussels. to help the countries affected by hurricane irma. our solidarity, in this emergency phase, very critical phase, starts from brussels. i am really proud – as a european citizen, not only as a commissioner – of this centre. i take this opportunity to extend an invitation to all of you – some colleagues have done so already – to visit this centre. it is very critical and good to see the people there deal with this devastating situation. going back to irma: once more information from the field becomes available, further action will be taken. for the moment, we have mobilised all available instruments for immediate relief, humanitarian assistance, but also civil protection assistance. but definitely, we also look to the future: to reconstruction efforts. the european union is also mobilised to assist affected countries on the longer-term. we have funding and expertise available. eu regions are eligible for eu solidarity funds based on damage assessments and their economic impact. it is difficult for me to say something more, but i believe that in our union, many times we realise that the rules are going through a way and are going to reflect the real conditions. let us not forget that natural disasters have no national borders. as commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management i would like to focus on this – working together, we are better able to assist affected populations. europe is about solidarity. i am proud that it is able to collectively help at the time of great need. it is our job, it is our moral duty and when we achieve this, it is good to say it in order to persuade our people that european union is not only a bureaucratic machine, but also can provide tangible solidarity on the ground.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner vella, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. tomorrow we shall vote in plenary on the north sea multiannual plan for bottom fishing stocks. after the baltic sea plan, this is the second multiannual plan we want to adopt. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and all the staff for the good cooperation so far. matter is not an easy thing. there's a lot at stake. and it's about now. we want to move the plan forward as quickly as possible, because the north sea is floating over the "brexit". in the pech vote in july, a clear majority voted for my report but against the negotiating mandate. the reasons for this are reflected in the amendments tabled for the plenary. the following primary lines of conflict are to be found here: firstly, whether and how recreational fishing is included in the plan. secondly, what basic stocks are covered by the plan and thirdly, in what area and under what conditions fishing opportunities may be fixed. in the discussion of these blocks of subjects so far, i have not tired of referring to the basic regulation as the basis of all the provisions. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. the precautionary approach of the basic regulation must be applied here. i see a blueprint for the other multiannual plans in the baltic sea plan, including this north sea plan. however, i am aware that there are certain specificities of the sea basins that need to be addressed. i think that the pech report, which was voted on in july, is a good basis for a multiannual plan in the north sea. the amendments now tabled on the role of recreational fishing are aimed at: firstly, the inclusion of recreational fishing is to be subject to an impact assessment. any measures taken should be proportionate to the objectives. secondly, the legislator should be able to adopt measures for recreational fishing if they are necessary for the sustainability of stocks. and i think the pech report already contains some good, because it contains clear and specific provisions on recreational fishing. amendment no 66 is based on the experience we had in the baltic sea last year. what stocks should be covered by the multiannual plan? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i think that the plan should include clear guidelines and targets for all the bottom stocks. in order to comply with the guidelines and targets, there must be clear conditions for fishing opportunities. here we have ranges of values in the annexes for certain stocks. the commission has also proposed amendments to these values. i therefore ask my colleagues to support the approach of the pech report to recreational fishing. i also ask for support for the possibilities of starting negotiations with the council as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms rodust, and her team, and also the shadow rapporteurs, for the excellent work done to achieve, in my opinion, a well-balanced report on our proposal for a north sea plan. the multi-annual plans are a cornerstone in implementing the objectives of the common fisheries policy at sea basin level, in order to ensure fit-for-purpose fisheries management in our mixed fisheries. they are also important because they pave the way for the direct involvement of stakeholders in fisheries management. this is the second multi-annual plan that the commission has proposed after the baltic plan which was adopted last year, in 2016, but it will certainly not be the last. the adriatic plan has already been presented to you and i aim to propose a multi-annual plan for the mixed demersal fisheries in western waters by the end of the year. we all have to work together in order to ensure that multi-annual plans are in place for our key mixed fisheries when the landing obligation comes fully into force in the year 2019. i hope that trilogues can start as soon as possible. this is very important. multi-annual plans will give us the tools to manage these fisheries in a modern and sustainable way. i have read your amendments with great interest and welcome the amendments that further align this plan to the baltic sea plan. following the baltic plan helps to avoid having to negotiate once again those points that were already discussed in detail and settled during the trilogue negotiations back in 2016, such as the use of maximum sustainable yield (msy) ranges. there are also elements that were not dealt with to the extent needed in the baltic plan and where we need to find a way forward. specifically, we have to find a way to deal with mixed demersal fisheries. such an approach must ensure that we continue to fish sustainably, while also ensuring a flexible management approach. whatever the political context may be, we will need to have a multi-annual plan in any case, to enable us to put in place a modern management framework for sustainable fisheries. the council adopted a general approach in april as a starting point for the negotiations with parliament. there is a lot of support on the council side for reaching a mutually acceptable outcome on the north sea plan before the end of the year. we need the north sea plan, as it will give us the flexibility to make the management of these fisheries fit for the 21st century.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the new north sea plan brings together for the first time the stocks of the different fish species in a management plan, with the aim of managing the fish stocks in the north sea sustainably and ensuring constant fishing opportunities for fishermen. the theory sounds good, but i see two problems. first, imagine that you are a hobbyist, a fisherman. if the plans of some of my colleagues are to succeed, you will have to register your catches in future. the commission has also proposed that the fishing industry should be given a special status in the fisheries sector. this is excessive and unnecessary. i therefore think it is wrong to include recreational fishing in the north sea plan in principle. if the north sea is not well stocked, recreational fishing can be restricted by regulations already in force, and i think that makes sense. we as the epp have tabled amendments to the plenary session tomorrow, and the ecr too, and i think that these compromises or proposals are quite acceptable. the legal basis for including recreational fishing is also questionable. neither the basic regulation - the fishing bible, so to speak - nor the baltic sea plan, and thus the blueprint for the north sea plan, explicitly prescribes this. there is no commission impact assessment and therefore no basis for ordinary legislation. we shouldn't shoot over the target here. secondly, the north sea's commercial fisheries must not be subject to stricter rules than the baltic sea's. many families living near the coast have jobs and livelihoods there. we must not restrict fishing by ideological means, but must find realistic and unbureaucratic solutions which do not overburden the small farms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we can come to a good solution here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mrs rodust, rapporteur: thank you for your extensive work. but there is one principle we should always bear in mind in this respect, and that is that quality must come before speed, whether we are faced with brexit or other speed-up criteria, we owe it to our fishermen. and if the plan does not deliver what it promises, then there will be growing resentment towards the eu in the sector and among the population as well. that is why we in the epp are in favour of very clear and simple definitions. in the north sea plan, we need a simple way to group the ships. this means that only those species which are actually quoted, which have total allowable catch. and we need viable corridors for the quotas on a scientific basis. when i hear, "well, there can't be overfishing, et cetera pp. "...: when a stock is in such good shape that it threatens others, so to speak, we have this for example in the interaction between the whiting and the crab, you have to take out more of the stock so that the crabs can recover. with a flexible corridor solution, the area for the regulation of limiting species, the choke species, is also very, very important. let's just think about cod and haddock. if the quota for the cod is, so to speak, captured, then yes, i have to be careful and also have clear conditions on how to deal with the cod. i just want to say one thing very clearly: the situation of food fish in the north sea has not been better for 50 years than it is now. we have a million tons more biomass for the herring. because it is always said here: yes, everything that is done here in the european union is impossible. we've already drawn up management plans for the cable plan. he's been in a very difficult situation, but now he's recovered, he's past the trigger point, we can fish him again. and i must say this again in this debate: the management plans we have had so far have also had an effect!
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have now heard some arguments in the debate on recreational fishing, value areas and grouping. i would like to remind you of the situation in the baltic sea. there, recreational fishing has a major impact on cod stocks. in the pech report, in amendment no 66 on recreational fishing, we therefore take up the structure of the ices report, which makes a distinction between total catch, commercial catches and recreational fishing. the difference between total catch and recreational fisheries gives the recommendation for commercial fisheries. the total catch is limited by the ranges of values of the multiannual plans. i believe that if recreational fishing is excluded from the fixing of fishing opportunities, the objectives of the cfp cannot be met. the debate has made the differences very clear in the way the bottom-dwelling fish stocks covered by the plan are managed. that will have to be decided by a majority in the plenary tomorrow. the same applies to the value ranges. i have already said that i continue to hope for a rapid response. the brexit negotiations are not waiting for us, but we must give the negotiators with the north sea management plan a stable foundation as soon as possible. i thank you for the lively debate and wish you all and myself a very pleasant evening.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. this year marks the 30th anniversary of erasmus, one of the eu's most successful programmes. over the past 30 years, the programme has grown considerably and has had a major impact on the personal and professional lives of some 9 million students, trainees, volunteers, teachers, educators and youth workers. erasmus+, as it is now called, offers the ideal opportunity to experience europe firsthand and thus to counter the persistent euroscepticism. by helping young people - whether students, trainees, pupils or adult teachers from different educational fields - to see europe as an opportunity through international exchange. erasmus makes europe more accessible to the individual. it offers the opportunity to participate directly in europe. erasmus is a european citizens' programme that promotes values such as tolerance and freedom, understanding of other cultures and awareness of democracy. however, too few people are still benefiting from erasmus+. according to the commission, only about 5% of young union citizens have participated in the programme so far. the thirty years of erasmus+ should therefore be used as an opportunity to improve and significantly expand the programme. the committee on culture has put a request for an oral answer to the commission and a resolution to start the discussion on a follow-up programme beyond 2020 now. in the context of the european parliament resolution on the future of erasmus+, the committee stresses the importance of the programme as a beacon of the european union and as an essential instrument for supporting activities in the fields of education, youth, training and sport. however, the follow-up programme needs to evaluate how to make access more open and inclusive so that disadvantaged young people also have the chance to have such an experience abroad. the committee, by a large majority, has always considered erasmus to be an important investment in the future of europe and has therefore always advocated strong financial resources. in my view, the objective must be to give every person under 27 the opportunity to participate in at least one of the parts of the programme in the medium term. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i very much welcome the fact that, for example, the italian government has called for a tenfold increase in appropriations in the context of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, and many other political actors are already sympathetic to a specific figure as a factor of multiplication. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in the next few days. the overall budget of erasmus+ has been significantly increased for the current funding period and has been hailed by the commission and the european parliament as a great success. this had raised many expectations among applicants for better equipment for the projects. however, this increase was delayed by a long time. many projects which were eligible for funding were and still are rejected. this leads to the fact that, in particular, institutions and bodies with no experience of european projects and programmes are reluctant to apply or, if rejected, to sit back in frustration and say: 'i'll never do that again.' the guide still lacks clarity and is generally not user-friendly. the application procedures are far too complex and the application forms are far too long, almost 40 pages long, and we must also ensure that in the future, young people from disadvantaged backgrounds in particular will benefit from better support through erasmus+. mobility and education must not remain the privilege of a few. there is a clear need for improvement, particularly in the case of individual stays abroad for study and training, and anyone who has lived abroad knows that this entails many costs which can only be partially covered by erasmus support. erasmus is not and has not been an instrument of employment policy, even if, of course, periods abroad are good for the cv and provide the so-called soft skills that every employer wants to see. a follow-up programme should focus on the principle of lifelong learning, lifelong mobility and promote both formal and non-formal learning. we must be careful not to overburden erasmus+ with labour market policies. erasmus+ is a low-cost, high-impact programme that makes a real contribution to strengthening the sense of belonging of people in the eu. erasmus is a good investment in the future of our children and it stands as no other programme of the european union for the success of the european idea. let us all work together to make this programme even more successful! i am counting on the support of the commission and hope that the council will see that the money is really well spent.
the commission has already done so. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that her report describes many of the modern requirements for a trade agreement. i particularly support the request to the commission that this agreement also include binding obligations for investors and binding instruments for the implementation of the important sustainability chapter for people here and there. however, i would like to reiterate that a conflict with an investor must be resolved through the ordinary courts. courts rule on the basis of a constitution, while investment tribunals rely solely on a trade agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in view of president juncker's speech today, i look forward, mrs malmström, to the publication of the draft negotiating mandate, and there will certainly be further discussions. we would have liked to have agreed to the agreement on trade in organic products if it had set out a common high standard of what constitutes a reliable organic product. unfortunately, the only decision was to mutually recognise the respective standards. this threatens to put producers and consumers at risk and may further erode citizens' confidence in eu trade policy.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to deliver, on behalf of the commission, a statement on the nord stream 2 project. i know that this continues to be a subject to which many of you attach a high importance and which we have discussed already a number of times. today i would like to update you on what has happened with regard to this file since the last time the commission stood before you nearly a year ago. as you know, our stance on this project derives directly from the energy union objectives and in particular from our desire to enhance energy security through creating a well-diversified, secure and competitive gas market. we do not see that, if built, the nord stream 2 project would contribute to these objectives, essentially for two reasons. first, because it will not contribute to diversification, as it will give access neither to a new source nor to a new route of gas supply. in this it is different from nord stream 1. second, we project gas demand to decline from today’s level of 460 billion cubic metres to somewhere between 350 and 410 billion cubic metres by 2030. against falling domestic production and a roughly stable level of imports, the commission sees no need for a new infrastructure of the magnitude of nord stream 2. a massive addition of 55 billion cubic metre import capacity through nord stream 2 could rather lead to further concentration and allow gazprom to further strengthen its position on the european union gas market. i know that these concerns relating to the impact of the project on the energy union objectives are shared by many members of this house. but beyond these political considerations, in the past exchanges with vice—president šefčovič and myself, many of you have also expressed the more specific concern that a project of such magnitude and with such an impact on our internal gas market could not, and should not, be developed outside the eu’s legal framework. allow me to update you on the steps that the commission has recently taken to address this specific issue. first, we consider that it cannot be in the european union’s interests that the nord stream 2 pipeline, if built, would be operated in a legal void or only according to third-country law. second, when it comes to the application of our internal market rules, we have to take into account that the nord stream 2 pipeline is in a specific legal situation, different from other projects. the gas pipeline entry point lies in a third country, while the exit point is on european union territory, and the pipeline passes under the sea, including through european union member states’ territorial waters. clearly, union rules cannot be made directly binding within the jurisdiction of third countries. moreover, the third gas directive does not explicitly include a specific framework for such situations. therefore, the commission is of the view that a specific legal regime is needed. the starting point for such a specific legal regime should be the core principles of international and european union energy law. these principles include a certain degree of third-party access, a degree of separation between supply and transmission, non-discrimination in tariff-setting and transparency. in this spirit, on 9 june the commission adopted a recommendation to the council requesting a mandate to negotiate with the russian federation an agreement on the operation of the pipeline. our aim is to ensure that a project of this scale, which impacts the internal market and security of supply, is operated according to the main principles of international and european union energy rules. we have transmitted this recommendation to the council and also to the european parliament. discussions on the mandate have started in the council. overall, a majority of member states have welcomed the commission proposal of a mandate. three different approaches to the mandate can be distinguished at this stage in the council. first, there is a significant number of member states which are clearly in favour of the mandate. second, there is a group of member states who are rather neutral towards the idea and have not yet made their view known. finally, only a few member states are at this stage against the mandate, albeit for different reasons: either because they see it as unnecessary or, on the other hand, because they consider it not sufficiently ambitious. furthermore, the council’s legal service has been requested to provide an opinion, and the presidency is now waiting for this opinion before continuing the discussions. as i said, a copy of the mandate has been sent to the european parliament. as required by the treaty, if the council agrees to authorise negotiations, then the commission will keep the european parliament fully informed at all stages of the negotiation and upon the conclusion of an agreement. finally, i will say that the commission is also working on a proposal to clarify the regulatory framework for pipelines coming from third countries. this is in any event without prejudice to the mandate for nord stream 2.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for the clear and strong position he has just taken, but also for the involvement of the european parliament. there are two aspects we need to look at. one aspect is the energy question. the european union has clear objectives on energy: we want diversification, we want to tie in more resources so that we become more independent. nord stream 2 is not leading to more diversification, it is leading to more dependence. that is why the first objective of this project has not been achieved. the second principle is our legal principles, which the commissioner has mentioned, which must be enforced. and of course the question arises quite practically - and this brings me to my second point: if the project is not necessary for the security of supply in europe, as the commissioner has said, if the pipelines are not necessary, why is so much money being spent? and that brings us to politics. we know that this is not an economic project, but a political one. the best proof of this is the involvement of gerhard schröder and many other politicians in the relevant supervisory boards, and then there is the question of political involvement. gerhard schröder will not be employed there because he has good economic experience, but because he has good political contacts. in this respect, it is important to make it clear that this is a political project. we know that we have a lot of tough issues with russia: georgia, ukraine, syria. russia is on the wrong track, using military force to advance its political goals. that is why we must not make any unnecessary further business, but must show clarity. a final thought, madam president: germany, as the country most affected by the project, should now send a clear signal of partnership with the eu. that means that the mandate presented by the commissioner must be supported by germany, so that it becomes clear that we all want a european solution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very grateful to you for the clarity of your statements, commissioner cañete. and i am grateful that you realize that you are not only speaking for yourself but that you have taken this position here on behalf of the commission. i think it is an important fact that we have a very clear statement here. i agree with almost everything that has been said by the speakers so far. i would like to disagree with you, mr weber, and mr krasnodębski in particular, on one point: when you talk about the role of gerhard schröder, i am happy to admit that i too consider that role to be shameful. as for the role of the present chancellor, i have a slightly different view of it, and i agree with you, mr weber. you said it was not just an economic business. the chancellor has so far tried to hide behind the argument that this is just an economic business, so as not to have to make a clear political statement. and if you say that germany should send a clear signal of eu partnership and make it clear that germany does not block this mandate either, but supports it, i am with you again, but we will probably have to work together in berlin to ensure that the voices in your party, which have publicly criticised this until now, finally penetrate so far that the chancellor also says a clear word. i was recently in mukran. i was on the ground in stralsund and talked to the farmers concerned and the environmental associations and the permitting authorities. you try to create facts on the ground. let us work together to ensure that this mandate is fulfilled and that it is supported by our country. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – well, as far as i am informed, there are three governments that have expressed reservations: the german government, the austrian government and the dutch government. mostly, it hinges on the position of the germans. i think what some of us have said is very clear: we want the german government to change its position. one coalition partner in our national government is very much in favour of this project – the social democrats. we greens are not, and the cdu – as a party and a partner in government – has not taken a very clear position, and a new step is needed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard a lot today about nord stream 2, that nord stream 1 is not fully operational, that our eastern neighbours feel more and more vulnerable to blackmail - we have heard that too - and that germany is becoming more and more dependent on russian gas. i would like to point out that this is not just unacceptable to the poles, that there is a veritable scandal in this context: a few weeks after gerhard schröder had shown such amazing commitment to the nord stream 1 project as chancellor of the then government, he was then hired by president putin. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. and that is why i think it is absolutely necessary that not only the poles but also the german politicians criticize this scandal in connection with this project. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. (speaker speaking without a microphone) ... make me say that our eastern neighbours feel that they too can be blackmailed, and that of course includes ukraine.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. since the june local elections, there have been serious setbacks in the protection of human rights and the democratization process in cambodia. the situation escalated in august with the arrest of opposition leader kem sokha, with attacks on independent media and civil society. these developments must be seen against the backdrop of the upcoming elections in july 2018. it is feared that the situation will worsen. without more international pressure and resistance, the cambodian government will soon lose its tolerance for critical opinions, democratic debate and people defending their fundamental rights. the eu must address the serious human rights violations with consistency and high attention. the eu supports the cambodian government through trade advantages. if the repression continues, the eu will have to reconsider its trade relations with cambodia.
author. – mr president, i would like to say to mrs mogherini that gabon must be a test case for the credibility of the cotonou agreement and our willingness to act. it can be a test case for restoring democracy in central africa. ali bongo is not a legitimate president. we know that he manipulated the last results and that he lost the elections. his reaction was brutal attacks on the opposition, with killings, imprisonment and repression all over the country. the people in gabon are crying out for help, and they look to the united nations – but also, and especially, to us. they are also looking to france, and i cannot understand why the epp is making a split vote on our appeal to france to be more constructive and more active, because of their historic role and involvement in gabon. i know that the intensive dialogue is going on. it should be finished, and then, if there are no results, we should take further steps. i think our credibility depends on us helping the people – especially young people – in this country.
a writer. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. a year ago, the people of gabon were cheated out of an election. while opposition candidate jean ping apparently won the majority of voters in gabon, incumbent president ali bongo claimed victory and did everything possible to prevent a review of the elections. protests of the population were suppressed; many people have been killed or injured in clashes with the security forces. many opposition politicians were imprisoned. civil and human rights have been violated in gabon ever since. gabon is a rich country, yet more than 80% of the people live in abject poverty because the revenues from oil and raw materials exports go into the pockets of the president and his family. we must not abandon the disenfranchised citizens of gabon, and the considerable influence of the eu and its member states - and in particular france - should be used to call for and promote a democratic dialogue in gabon. and, mr leinen, the fact that separate votes are requested for individual articles does not say anything about the voting behaviour of a group.
author. – mr president, we are very concerned that, in laos, arrests and forced disappearances of activists and protesters continue. in particular, those who have been critical of issues ranging from land disputes and corruption to the abuse of power are facing repression. this is underlined by the recent arrests and lengthy prison sentences for somphone phimmasone, soukane chaithad and lod thammavong. in compliance with the opinion of august 2017 of the un working group on arbitrary detention, we call for their immediate and unconditional release. in the resolution we also address the case of the leading civil society activist sombath somphone, who disappeared in december 2012. he was allegedly abducted by the police, and we have still not seen any reaction from the laos government. we call for transparent and impartial investigations into all pending cases of enforced disappearances.
a writer. the commission is not the un high commissioner for human rights has described the violence in myanmar as "a textbook case of ethnic cleansing". this violence must stop immediately and sufficient humanitarian aid must reach the people. yes, there have been attacks on police stations that cannot be tolerated. but the military's response is extreme and cannot be justified by anything. the government of myanmar is now making the grave mistake of not distancing itself from the military's disproportionate use of force. we are calling for an independent international commission of inquiry that can travel to the conflict zone. this conflict urgently needs a lasting solution. the government must give the rohingya citizenship or legal status that provides them with protection and rights.
the rapporteur. i would simply ask that this report be referred back to committee so that we can begin the interinstitutional negotiations quickly.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau's request under rule 130b of the rules of procedure, tabled by mrs beatrix von storch and mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz, on behalf of the efdd group, to the commission, concerning the abolition of unrwa (o-000061/2017 2017/2834(rsp)) (b8-0325/2017). unfortunately, the efdd group which tabled this major request has no one here today. that is why this major question is not being put forward and mrs crețu will speak immediately.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, you know very well that the palestine refugees question has existed for almost 70 years. the united nations general assembly established and mandated the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east to provide assistance and protection to register palestine refugees pending a just and lasting solution. only in december 2016 the general assembly extended the agency’s mandate for three years by a large majority. the european union’s continued support to the agency is a key element in the european union’s strategy of contributing to the promotion of stability in the middle east and to the viability of the two-state solution, which is an essential political horizon for arab-israeli relations. the agency’s work helps to ensure that the essential needs for the well-being, protection and human development of palestine refugees are met. over many years the agency has demonstrated its capacity to provide education, health, relief, and social services. a future independent palestinian state needs education, skills and healthy citizens to deliver peace, security and prosperity for all. the agency’s work provides political space for efforts that need to be considerably intensified to conclude a peace deal and to pursue palestinian state-building. in each education service delivered, the agency focuses on respect for human rights and for the fundamental freedoms. in doing so, it gives young palestinians a perspective for their future, it represents a bulwark against violent radicalisation. the european union is by far the most predictable donor to the agency and will continue to be so, as reflected in the joint declaration on european union support to the agency on 7 june. since 1971 the eu has been providing reliable and predictable support to the palestine refugees through the agency programmes, special projects and emergency appeals. the european union and its member states are by far the largest provider of assistance to palestine refugees. mr president, honourable members, today’s debate was triggered by a so-called major interpellation introduced by one parliamentary group, as you said, alleging that this agency mismanages eu funds and tolerates terrorist activities. our view is quite the opposite. in 2014 the agency successfully passed the eu’s seven-pillar assessment, which evaluated its internal control, accounting, external audit and procurement systems. assurances have been provided as the agency’s processes and mechanisms are in place to ensure the neutrality of these facilities, including monitoring of facilities by its staff members, regular informal inspection of the agency’s installations by operation support officers, and a strict no-weapons policy in the agency’s installations. the agency explicitly condemns all acts of terrorism in the strongest possible terms and regularly does so whenever any such act is carried out. it also remains the agency’s policy to always investigate credible allegations of neutrality violations. where violations of staff rules and regulations are established, appropriate disciplinary action is taken. the agency has indeed taken forthright actions whenever allegations of incitement have surfaced. the major interpellation also suggests merging the agency with the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees. the commission is not in favour of such a merger. the reasons are obvious: the agency has a specific mandate, with staff going beyond the usual humanitarian aid, and a broader relevance, not only in palestine but also in jordan, lebanon and syria. mr president, honourable members, the european union is committed to the two-state solution as the only viable way to achieving lasting peace in the middle east. the european union is convinced that any solution to the israeli-arab conflict will need to encompass an agreed, just and fair solution to the refugee question, allowing the two future states to live side by side in peace and security. whatever the difficulties – and they are real – the region should not lose sight of this goal.
mr ruas, you are a good man. you're just taking a position on the next big question. we're talking about the first big question.
then i may have to apologise if the epp group has got it wrong. in any case, you are in favour of this request, and mrs zovko will speak for the epp group on the next request. so let's put it this way, pragmatically, you're not on the agenda for the next big question. i would certainly give you the floor again. mr preda, can you help us to understand this?
mr preda, your name is later down the list for this interpellation.
i thank you very much, mr boștinaru. i would like to make it clear again that this was clearly not the fault of mr ruas. i can't fix this now, we're just going to let the agenda run its course. normally, the epp group, as the strongest group, would of course have the right to speak first. it's just a little different today.
before the commissioner takes another position, i would say that i do not think it is particularly parliamentary to table a large question here and then not consider it necessary to be represented as a group in the debate.
(president addressing himself to earl of dartmouth) colleague, you get the floor when i have finished, not just by raising your hand and starting to shout. one second, please.
the commission and the other groups are preparing to answer this question. that is why we are now in the process of checking again whether the amendments to the rules of procedure have all been well received. i will tell mr corbett that if the groups who put a question are not present, the question will be considered withdrawn unless other groups say that they attach importance to the treatment. but we should not be honouring this when questions are asked here and then a corresponding colleague is not present.
mr president, today we are not going to make a final decision, but at any rate it was the case that at the beginning of the debate no one from the efdd was there, because normally it is like this, .....(earl of dartmouth off micro: i was here at the very beginning)
at the very beginning? but i was told nobody was here. but you are not ready to speak.
okay, we'll take it like this. i understand that the group has not been on your wavelength with this big request.
thank you, thank you. the commissioner is now speaking.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this interesting debate, which has highlighted the very important role of the united nations relief and works agency for palestinian refugees in the near east, as well as the strong and dynamic partnership that exists between the agency and the european union. the european union stands by its commitments to the agency and palestinian refugees, and i appreciate very much that the european parliament is on the same page.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau request under rule 130b of the rules of procedure, which was tabled by mr nicola caputo, mr fernando ruas, mr ivan jakovčić, mr eric andrieu, ms clara eugenia aguilera garcía, ms ana gomes, ms renata briano, mr ricardo bonafè, mr ricardo serrão santos, mr gilles pargneaux, mr pina picierno, mr ivica tolić, mr aldo patriciello, mr biljana borzan, mr claudia țapardel, mr dubravka šuica, mr brando benifei, mr doru-claudian frunzulică, mr alberto cirio, mr liliana rodrigues, ms barbara spinelli, mr andrea cozzolino, mr michela giuffrida, mr tonino picula, mr damiano zoffoli, mr daniele viotti, mr isabella de monte, mr martin maclis, mr monica andrieu, mr valdez, mr valdez, mr valdez, mr valdez, mr valdez, mr valdez, mr domenico domenico, mr domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico, mr antonio, mr giannis, mr valdez, mr valdez, mr giuliani, mr giuliani, mr giuliani, mr giuliani, mr domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico, mr giuli, mr giuli domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico, mr giuli domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico domenico
i would like to thank mr jakovčić. it is good that you have once again shown your mutual esteem, which normally is only expressed in the group, in a public meeting.
i would like to say one more thing about what was not said this afternoon just before the vote. the commission has the right to intervene at any time under the relevant provisions. that is why the indignant reaction to mrs mogherini - which did not come from you, mr dartmouth, but which you have now raised again - was in no way appropriate. catch the eye
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for their words. i think the tensions that appeared here are not about this debate and about myself, but i thank you for your words. i presented in my first speech exactly how many tools we have to deal with fires, and i can assure you that for us it was a priority during the summer. it was by chance that i was on permanence when portugal suffered the fires. each day i was in contact with the ministers, in greece and italy also. you know that you, the members of the european parliament, voted yesterday for 95% from european funds to be used for natural disasters. yesterday you also approved the commission proposal to help italy with eur 1.2 billion after the earthquake. in terms of the fires, i think the richness of the debate today shows just how complex the issue of forest fires is and requires joining forces, knowledge and expertise beyond silos and beyond borders. to respond to your questions, i would like to say that you are right when you say that everything is local, but the european union activates assistance only when locals ask for help, so it took less than 12 hours this summer for portugal to receive help from france, and also france, italy and spain. to give you an example: as i said at the beginning, we have a solidarity fund, we have cohesion funds. portugal has asked for change in the operational programme, and in a few days we will change and help portugal with eur 45 million to deal with portugal. we also have other instruments, for instance the civil protection mechanism. the mechanism was activated by portugal in the early hours of sunday, 18 june, and through the mechanism an immediate offer was made, i can say, within one hour, of three planes from france. the french fleet arrived in the affected area on the same day and began operations immediately. the other eight planes from italy and spain were offered on 18 june and arrived on 18 and 19 june. so i just wanted to give you some examples of what we are doing with this. what you said on prevention is very important. we have investments on prevention, on boosting the health and resilience of forests’ ecosystems. this is exactly what the european agricultural rural development fund promotes through the measures i presented at the beginning. so, thank you once again for this debate. i will go back to brussels with this message from you, with an unwavering will to work closely with you and the member states in finding a european response to these very dramatic challenges for the countries and for the people.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 3.55 p.m.)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we did indeed request a debate on which i would like to ask colleagues to vote. however you feel about the referendum, i think we cannot – as europe – turn a blind eye to the police violence that we saw yesterday in catalonia. violence can never be used as a tool for solving political conflict. only politics can solve political conflicts. it is clear that we need dialogue now – that is the only way forward. therefore, europe needs to watch closely. we should also offer mediation in order to overcome the problem that we have. therefore, we urge you to support our request for a debate on the police violence in catalonia against peaceful citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we requested this title because there will certainly be different views about the referendum – ‘yes’, ‘no’, whatever – but i think we can have a clear, united stance when it comes to asserting that violence is never the way to solve a political problem. here in this case, as in every other political conflict, we need a political solution. we need dialogue. we also need to see what we can do from the european level to help to mediate and solve the problem, and, for that reason, we need to watch closely what is happening and we need to offer all the help we can give. we should ask the commission what they intend to do, and we should ask the commission to offer mediation. there have been calls for international mediation and that is why we think this title is the one we can unite around.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we all know that the situation is serious and that the news from catalonia is very worrying. it's clear now that we have the debate, that we're getting it. now it's all about the title. we have offered the greens to include fundamental rights in the title of the resolution. that means we tried to build the green bridges. i don't understand why we have to argue about this now. let us take up the broad consensus that we now have with the socialist proposal. let's just discuss things this week. i therefore ask, mr president, that the socialist proposal be put to the vote first. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to be clear, we support - since we ourselves have tabled this motion with the greens - the wording proposed by mr ska keller. but we are also prepared, and we think it is sensible, to include the wording that the fundamental rights must be included in the title. so in that sense, we could find a common solution here. but at the same time i am very much against a resolution because i think that would be interference, and we should not simply dismiss it as such. we should just let this go, we should get along here and send a clear signal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank mr gabriel mato for his report, which he has drawn up in a very professional and precise manner. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas is, of course, an organisation which goes beyond the european union's fisheries policy. it was set up in 1966 - that is, more than 50 years ago - because the atlantic bluefin tuna was in a very difficult situation and was threatened with collapse. this means that all the countries bordering the atlantic ocean - north atlantic, south atlantic - must also cooperate. these conferences, which are now held annually, are directly related to the stocks we have available to catch bluefin tuna, bigeye tuna, yellowfin tuna and, in particular, swordfish. we have heard, and mrs briano has also said, that there is of course a complicated situation in the mediterranean area. the european union and its member states have given the commission the mandate to negotiate, and the commission is the authoritative and negotiating institution in this iccat conference, which can negotiate the quotas with the individual member states. a delegation from the european parliament is only an observer, but we must then implement the results - gabriel mato said it earlier. the fact that there is a delay of more than ten years is simply unacceptable. commissioner vella said earlier that they will work to improve these periods in the future. it is also true that the control of fishing vessels which have an iccat concession and are also registered in the relevant registers must be improved, including the possibilities of data transmission by satellite, etc. it is well on its way, but we must see together that it is precisely this illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is, in the truest sense of the word, illegal fishing, that must be combated. the bluefin tuna and the other tuna species are back in a position where we can say that we have a future in this respect. and it is also good that cooperation with china, also with taiwan and also with japan has picked up speed in recent years. if we have a situation where a south korean vessel register shows that a fishing vessel, a longline vessel, has been sold without a licence, and is trying to illegally fish tuna in african waters, that it is being put on there, that it can be chained up, these are things where we can really report very positive trends in this regard. but as for the transhipment ban on catches in the atlantic or in other waters - our fleet also fishes in the indian and pacific oceans - this is an unjustified competitive advantage for all the other members of iccat, who do not have to take this into account. in the fight against illegal fishing - i have already mentioned this - we must cooperate much better, and the allocation of quotas for small-scale and artisanal fisheries in particular - this is also included in the basic regulation - must be of particular concern to us so that they too have a chance of survival. otherwise, as a representative of the epp group, i agree with the report drawn up by mr gabriel mato.
i have to say, madam president, if high representative mogherini does not defend human rights with determination, we will be hit in the heart of europe. in all regions of the world, governments are taking massive action against civil society. they have dirty methods to silence female activists, from bureaucratic harassment to account suspensions, from arrests to violence. if we are serious about our values, such as freedom of expression, we must not continue to watch the repression of civil society grow outside europe, but also within europe's borders. the freedom of action of the people is the basis of democracy. what should the high representative do? it must address and strongly condemn any attack on civil society in partner countries in political dialogue. human rights are not a commodity, not negotiable, not even in deals with egypt and ethiopia.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms elissavet vozemberg-vrionidi, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the fight against cybercrime (2017/2068 (ini)) (a8-0272/2017).
madam president, this report states, right at the beginning, the european parliament ‘underlines that the fight against cybercrime should be first and foremost about safeguarding and hardening critical infrastructures and other networked devices, and not only about pursuing repressive measures’. that is the central point of this report, and it is why parliament also stresses the importance of free and open-source software and reiterates that, with respect to the internet of things, producers are the key starting-point for tightening up liability regimes which will lead to a better quality of products and a more secure environment in terms of external access and a documented update facility. parliament also says clearly that it urges the member states – which are absent here – not to impose any obligation on encryption providers that would result in the weakening or compromising of the security of their networks or services, such as the creation or facilitation of ‘back doors’. i hope, commissioner, that you will follow these guidelines.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a study by the bertelsmann foundation shows that 80% of pupils in germany want digital media to be used in school lessons. while we are still far from a widespread deployment, the question is: are young people learning enough about how to handle digital services and personal data responsibly? this report on tackling cybercrime shows that all citizens should know how to protect themselves from cybercrime. almost everyone uses digital services, has a smartphone or a laptop. thus, almost everyone is a potential victim of cybercriminals. we therefore need to improve the cooperation between police and justice worldwide, and we absolutely need to invest in more education. i therefore reiterate the call on the european commission to carry out a campaign to raise awareness among users. but schools should also give more space to the issue of digitalisation and its dangers. this is the only way to ensure that the younger generation is better protected against cyberattacks.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 3 october 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu's political relations with asean (2017/2026 (ini)) (a8-0243/2017).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since this house adopted a first report on eu-asean political relations in 2014, there has been a tremendous amount of positive development in this area. the second report which the afet committee is now presenting to the plenary reflects this. at the same time, it is an opportunity to look back on 50 years of asean and 40 years of eu-asean relations and to take this as an opportunity to describe a new phase in these relations. we regard the asean community of nations as a strategic partner of importance for cooperation throughout the indo-pacific region. it is particularly important that this is a partner that, like the eu, is committed to multilateralism and the international rule of law. cooperation has now expanded to cover more areas than ever before. in the area of connectivity, we are negotiating an air transport agreement. there's cooperation on the environment or the un's sustainability goals or the question of natural resources. there is cooperation on maritime security, piracy, cooperation between europol and aseanapol against organised crime, against terrorism, on cyber security and, of course, also on crisis management. the promotion of democracy and human rights also continued to play a major role in our relations. we are discussing in the report the obligation of companies investing in the context of the very close trade and investment relations between the eu and asean, the obligation in terms of social and environmental responsibility. we are discussing the possibilities of cooperation at the local level, the possibilities of cooperation between people - especially the young generation - and one of the concrete projects proposed here is that a young leaders programme be set up between the eu and asean. finally, the report also stresses that we want to promote cooperation between parliamentarians from both sides. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was a very fruitful, very constructive cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs of the various political groups. there is a great deal of agreement. we have even managed to express a self-criticism at one point in relation to the eu's not very commendable hesitation in giving an opinion on the unclos court's decision on the south china sea. but the bottom line is that this is a positive development which we are supporting with great commitment and which we hope will gain even more momentum in the coming years.
i have to say, madam president, in the year of the 40th anniversary of the eu-asean, we call for an upgrade of eu-asean relations towards a strategic partnership. partnership and cooperation agreements have been and are being negotiated with seven countries, the philippines is likely to benefit from the gsp+ trade system, and free trade agreements have been negotiated with singapore and vietnam. on the other hand, the human rights situation in several asean countries has unfortunately deteriorated dramatically in recent times, for example the ethnic expulsions and violence against the rohingya in myanmar, the attacks on the opposition and civil society in the run-up to the elections in cambodia, the massive increase in extrajudicial executions in the philippines. the eu must use its trade relations more decisively and effectively to improve human rights protection. the commission has to act credibly and consistently, that is to say, applying human rights clauses and, where appropriate, suspending trade advantages.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 3 october 2017. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are all agreed that violence is not the answer for europe. at the same time, as a member of the acp delegation, i would like to draw our attention to an escalation of violence which has been taking place since sunday some 4000 kilometres from here and which, historically, must be very close to home. in cameroon, the french-speaking government has been using excessive force against people who were celebrating the 56th anniversary of their english-speaking region since sunday. since then, there's been a media blackout, the internet is down. amnesty says it is an "ongoing campaign to silence any form of dissent in the west and south-west regions of cameroon". the colonial powers, france and great britain, have a special responsibility here. you have caused the chaos that has already claimed many victims. let's not be silent! the structures created must be ordered and pacified. let us stand with africa, not for the power over resources, but for the people who have a right to finally be africans.
that concludes this item.
president of the commission. – mr president, september was a month rich in speeches. i started with my state of the union address on the future of europe here in this house, where i laid out the road map for a more united, stronger and more democratic union. this debate on building a more united, stronger and more democratic europe continued at the sorbonne in paris: president macron gave a very bold and a very european speech, and i would like to congratulate him and thank him once again. prime minister may’s speech, on the other hand, was about separation. in florence, she struck an optimistic tone on the future relationship between the united kingdom and the union. when it comes to brexit, we still cannot talk about the future without real clarity. this is because the condition of article 50 and the mandate given to us by the leaders of the eu 27 are very clear: we first need to agree on the terms of the divorce and then we will see if we can, half-lovingly, find one another again. the prime minister’s speech in florence was conciliatory, but speeches are not negotiation positions and, as michel barnier, the commission’s excellent chief negotiator, said last week, work still remains to be done. we have not yet made the sufficient progress needed. the negotiators have made good progress on citizens’ rights, but the indispensable role of the european court of justice in guaranteeing those rights still needs to be agreed. i am pleased that prime minister may and her team recognise that the uk has financial obligations which it must respect. the devil will be, as always, in the detail, but the taxpayers of the eu 27 should not pay for the british decision. and when it comes to ireland we can only talk of solutions that fully respect eu law and the good friday agreement. i will not go into any more detail here, as negotiations continue next week and michel barnier will complete what i have just been saying. for those who think that the uk should just go over michel barnier’s head, i would remind them that the commission was appointed by the 27 member states, and my choice of michel barnier was welcomed by them. he acts on their behalf on the basis of clear negotiating mandates and he will report to them at the next european council. to date, i cannot say that we are ready to enter the second phase of the negotiations. monsieur le président, après le départ du royaume-uni, une page de l’histoire européenne se tourne et une autre est en train de s’écrire pour décider de l’avenir que nous voulons construire à vingt-sept. trop longtemps, nous avons repoussé des questions cruciales à des lendemains incertains. trop longtemps, nous avons préféré nous livrer à de longues discussions institutionnelles au lieu de débattre clairement avec les peuples d’europe de la finalité de notre union. tout cela doit changer et tout cela est en train de changer. les débats sur l’avenir de l’europe se multiplient dans tous les états membres. c’est bon signe car cela témoigne de la santé et de la vigueur de la démocratie européenne. c’était l’objectif que visait la commission avec le livre blanc sur l’avenir de l’europe, les documents de réflexion et les nombreux dialogues citoyens qui se sont multipliés dans tout le continent. mais il ne faut pas se disperser. c’est pourquoi j’ai voulu placer la poursuite de ce débat public dans le contexte d’une feuille de route structurée avec des échéances précises sur des propositions concrètes. cette route nous mènera jusqu’au 30 mars 2019, au sommet spécial de sibiu-hermannstadt, en roumanie, où nous donnerons notre vision d’avenir pour l’europe et où nous déciderons de ce que nous serons prêts à défendre et à construire ensemble, à vingt-sept. notre avenir ce n’est pas le brexit, c’est l’europe. (vifs applaudissements)
, the chief brexit negotiator. mr president, i would like to thank your assembly for giving me the opportunity to speak alongside president juncker. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be here with president juncker, whom i thank for his personal confidence and support, and with mr maasikas, whom i congratulate and thank for the quality of the estonian presidency over the past few weeks. we were gathered in this house to debate the same issue on 5 april 2017, when you adopted your first resolution. you were then setting the political direction of these negotiations, as was done by the european council, under the leadership of president tusk, which adopted very precise guidelines shortly afterwards. six months later, as the clock is ticking, and a few days before the european council of 19 and 20 october, we are therefore taking stock of this negotiation again, and your draft resolution today demonstrates, beyond the concrete issues it deals with, the full involvement of the european parliament in these negotiations. i often remind people outside this chamber that your assembly will have the final say when ratification is done. from day one, ladies and gentlemen, we have known that these negotiations are extraordinary, extremely complex, with human, social, legal, financial, technical and economic consequences, and often these consequences are underestimated. as the union's negotiator, it is the commission's responsibility, with your confidence, to negotiate on behalf of the 27 and all the union's institutions. our greatest asset, i can tell you, in the place i am in, is our unity. we know that this unity is not decreed, it does not fall from the sky, it is built day by day through the transparency that we have discussed every day with president juncker, through public debate and through trust. i would also like to thank you personally, mr president tajani, as well as guy verhofstadt, the brexit coordinator, the group chairmen and the members of the brexit steering group, whom i meet very often, as i did yesterday, for the quality and frankness of our exchanges. with your support, we have been working since the beginning of these negotiations to implement the mandate given to us by the council, in full accordance with your resolution and the guidelines adopted by the european council. this mandate is simple: to agree with the united kingdom, as soon as possible, on the conditions of its withdrawal - an orderly withdrawal from the european union - and on the principles of that withdrawal, in order to start the next stages of the negotiations as soon as possible. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this withdrawal there are many issues which are not negligible - euratom, judicial procedures, administrative procedures, goods placed on the market, governance - but the three main issues of this orderly withdrawal concern first the citizens, that is 4.5 million people, then ireland and finally the financial regulation. these three issues are inseparable, and they are the three key issues of this orderly withdrawal. as you yourself said in your draft resolution, and as president juncker has just reminded us, prime minister theresa may proposed several openings in two speeches she made last friday in florence. the negotiating team, as i wished, began last week to translate these openings into concrete proposals and to make a number of clarifications, to which i shall return briefly in a moment. we have therefore been able to make progress on our priority, which remains the protection of citizens' rights. we also agree on common principles which will guide our response to the sensitive issues raised by ireland's unique situation. apart from these positive points, which i must mention in order to draw up an objective assessment of the state of the negotiations, we still have serious differences, particularly on the financial regulation. on this question, which i have already discussed here, things are also simple. we will not accept to pay to 27 what was decided by 28, it is as simple as that. taxpayers in the 27 member states of the union do not have to pay the consequences of a decision they did not take, nothing more, nothing less. (applause) we also have differences on how to guarantee citizens' rights. we know and share, as do you, ladies and gentlemen, since you represent them, the concern of those 4.5 million citizens, british and from the other 27 countries of the union, who today simply want to continue living and working where they are, with their families, as before brexit. this concern, as you recall in your resolution, is further aggravated by certain discriminatory measures taken in recent months by the british authorities, and we are concerned about this. in order to guarantee these rights, we need several elements. first, the withdrawal agreement must have direct effect to enable the uk authorities and judges to rely directly on it, otherwise, of course, these rights could be modified over time. secondly, we need a coherent interpretation of the agreement on both sides of the channel, which, in our view, only the court of justice of the european union can ensure. beyond this governance issue, we also expect guarantees from the uk on family reunification and the enjoyment abroad of social benefits acquired in the uk. on the second main issue, that of ireland, both the european union and the united kingdom recognise that it is in a very exceptional situation and that any solution will have to take this fully into account. as i have mentioned on several occasions, the solutions we have to find will have to respect both the integrity of the union's legal order and the good friday agreement in all its dimensions. at this stage, the main task is to develop the practical arrangements for the continuation of the many north-south cooperation arrangements provided for in the agreement and the perpetuation of the common travel area. and this task still requires precise and detailed work, in which we are engaged with the british delegation in a constructive way. finally, ladies and gentlemen, as you rightly say in your draft resolution, we have not yet made sufficient progress on these three key and inseparable subjects to begin the second phase of the negotiations with confidence. first of all, we must envisage a possible transitional period, under conditions which have been clearly defined by the european council and to which you yourselves are attentive, and then we must define the framework for our future partnership with this great country. a fifth round of negotiations will take place in brussels next week. we will remain resolutely constructive, because we want to complete both the agreement on orderly withdrawal and the discussion on our future relationship with the united kingdom. with the united kingdom, which will become a third country in any event, since it has chosen to do so on 30 march 2019, we want to establish an ambitious and lasting partnership, of course in trade matters, since that is its request, through a free trade agreement under conditions which we will discuss, but also beyond trade, in security, the fight against terrorism and defence, and in research and innovation. the sooner we agree on the principles of this orderly withdrawal, the sooner we can concentrate on this fundamental objective of our common interest, namely the building of this new partnership with the united kingdom. ladies and gentlemen, our approach is based on the fundamental principles of our union: unity, the interests of the 27 member states and the institutions, our autonomy in decision-making, the integrity of our internal market and the four freedoms of movement which are its foundation. these four principles have been at the heart of our political project since its inception. the united kingdom knows them well, having shared them with us for 44 years, and they are not negotiable. once again, as the german chancellor said a few weeks ago and as president juncker has just said, we now know that the future of the union is much more important than brexit. it is the responsibility of the 27 member states and the european parliament to build this future together and to meet the challenges together. we can see from the news that they are serious and numerous. a page is turning, or will turn. this is the sovereign choice of the united kingdom, and we respect it. it is up to us to ensure, as jean-claude juncker has just said, that new pages are written for the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this debate is taking place barely two weeks before the october european council and with one round of negotiations still to take place. the matters under discussion are serious ones with an impact on the rights of millions of citizens, on the budget of the union and on the continuation of peace in ireland. following prime minister may’s speech on 22 september, we have noted a more constructive spirit and it seems to be providing new momentum to the negotiating process. however, we can only assess progress based on official negotiation. what actually matters is the position paper presented at negotiations as an official position. when reviewing progress, we take as a benchmark the guidelines set by the european council on 29 april and supplemented by the negotiating directives of the council adopted on 22 may, both setting principles and priorities shared in the european parliament resolution of last april. i am confident that, this time, the views expressed in the resolution due to be voted on by your institution right after this debate will again tally with ours, and with the assessment of the union negotiator, michel barnier. indeed, it is on the basis of this assessment that, on 20 october, the european council will consider the state of play in these negotiations and how to move from there. we have noted that the uk is now acknowledging the need for a transition of sorts. the principle of transitional arrangements is indeed recognised, subject to clear conditions set in the european council guidelines i referred to earlier. a transition could be welcome in easing the impact of the withdrawal and mitigating the uncertainties affecting citizens and businesses but, again, in order to be able to consider transition in good time, we need far more clarity than has been provided so far. likewise, concerning citizens’ rights, we do see improved convergence on key rights and on how to ensure they can actually be enjoyed by european citizens in the uk on the basis of simple procedures. but a number of issues remain open and there is not yet any satisfactory assurance that these rights will be implemented in a consistent manner on both sides of the channel. turning to ireland and its unique situation, both sides are certainly close in terms of principles and continued support for the good friday agreement and what could be achieved within its framework, and on the continued operation of the common travel area and what it means for irish citizens. but this is not enough in terms of certainty. last but not least, the financial settlement is also one of the key issues on which sufficient progress must be made before moving to the next phase of the negotiations. no doubt, positive words have been said but we are still awaiting concrete proposals. all this leaves us still wondering about the conclusion we can draw as to progress – an uncertainty which i read, too, in the draft motion for a resolution before you. european parliament resolutions are valuable for the council. as i noted earlier, there are still 15 days and one round of negotiations to go. i was glad to conclude the meeting of the general affairs council (article 50) on 25 september by noting that the eu 27 is united, that we have a single line of negotiations with a clearly defined mandate and we fully support the work of michel barner. a certain new momentum has recently been instilled into the negotiations. let us build on it. let us achieve watertight solutions for our citizens, for our businesses and for our union. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly i think the top question for the moment is: who should i call in london who speaks for the government – theresa may, boris johnson or even david davis? on reading johnson’s attacks against his own prime minister, he shows that the british government is trapped by their own party quarrels and political contradictions. first florence, then manchester: we are listening to a lot of speeches but substance, dear friends... london is being very creative in putting red lines on the table in order to please party supporters. however, it is failing to give any solution to the voters and citizens. i fully agree with theresa may on at least one single point, when she said ‘we can do so much better than this’. theresa may, please do not put your party first; please put britain first, please put the citizens first; and please, no more speeches. show leadership on content. and the best thing would probably be to please sack johnson, because we need a clear answer as to who is responsible for the british position. (applause from certain quarters) a second point is the perspective of the citizens in the european union. they can see what leaving the european union means. we have a downgrading by the rating agencies. we have a lot of european companies who are saying they will not invest any more, and the growth rate in great britain when we look at the oecd data is going down from 1.6% to 1%, so only half of the gross rate which we have today in the eurozone. that is the result when you do a brexit. the third point i want to put on the table is what are we doing in the next steps? first of all, the british government has to understand that cherry-picking is over. what we saw through the summer break was the british government presenting a lot of new ideas, but with these ideas they showed that they want to keep ties, they want to keep contact. they did not explain to us what leaving the european union really means. another point is that we should not speak too much about the transitional period because we are already in a transitional period, dear friends. we need clear results in 2019; otherwise the consent of the european parliament is not guaranteed. a country outside the union cannot have the same advantages as a country which is a member of the club. (more general applause) the last two points: i think it is obvious to everybody what the commission president and michel barnier underlined, that for the moment there is not sufficient progress on the negotiations on the table, so i think the eu leaders, the european council, has to understand that there is no chance of entering into the second phase of the negotiations. finally, i want to thank jean-claude juncker and michel barnier for their great job, for keeping the european union together. i also want to thank guy verhofstadt for doing a great job for us as an institution, as the european parliament, in bringing our voice to the table. we are prepared and we can be proud of the job we have done in the last months. (general applause)
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, mr michel barnier! when i hear farage and co. here, i have the impression that we proposed brexit, never them. now they have the problem and they're trying to insult us. we should see this one, and i join michel barnier in saying that we are now negotiating in a better atmosphere than before. progress has been made - not enough progress, but progress has been made - and it should continue. it's the most common thing in negotiations. and we should realize that in an atmosphere like this, we want to limit damage. the impression of farage and others is that they want the damage! they want to provoke the damage, not to negotiate soberly to limit the damage. and, of course, to do that, they have to meet the conditions correspondingly with the three questions: citizenship, the questions of funding and the questions with ireland. we must also say that we cannot accept negotiating strategies which say that financial commitments should be postponed until we negotiate the future relationship, so that we can then use this as a bargaining chip for the negotiations. it is in the common interest to organise the reasonable relations. you don't need money to blackmail each other. i would therefore urge michel barnier, jean-claude juncker and the commission to maintain the current negotiating strategy. the negotiating strategy is correct. we need a divorce settlement that includes all the things that go into it. once that is established, you can make a transitional arrangement for a certain period of time to buy time for a free trade agreement or whatever. but we still don't know what britain really wants. i have the impression that they are writing papers in which they want to apply for membership of the single market but do not want to bear the burdens of it. that seems to be one of the points. we are asking for clarity here. i think that the will is there and the atmosphere is there to reach a reasonable conclusion, and we should not destroy ourselves by these propaganda speeches. the vast majority of this house wants a constructive solution with britain for future relations. we should work on that.
mr president, i would like to make it very clear from the beginning: i was against brexit. mr gonzáles pons made the point that after brexit, people like farage are leaving this parliament. i would like to remind you: not only him, but all british people are leaving this parliament, and these are the last advocates in this parliament who are in favour of competitiveness, of decentralisation and of self-responsibility of a country for its debts. but it was – and let’s not forget – the junckers, it was the broks, it was the verhofstadts in this parliament who carry a lot of responsibility for the brexit in the first place. it was their mantra for more europe, more centralisation, more socialisation, which led to the referendum in the first place. and it was their inflexibility on the immigration issue which gave the arguments for the johnsons and the farages to swing the results towards brexit. to minimise the damage, we now need to do three things. first of all, mr verhofstadt, people like you should stop this arrogance vis-à-vis the british voters. secondly, mr barnier, you should stop giving the impression that you want to punish the british for their decision. and here is a message to london: they should really get their act together and come up with a stable and unified government to face this commission in this critical phase. (applause from the right wing of the house)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a ceo of rolls royce in ludwigsfelde, germany, not far from berlin, told me, when i asked him about his views, questions and problems with the brexit negotiations, that he had only one concern, one important concern: guaranteeing the free movement of workers through the negotiations! the global value chain, international production, sales, research and development of one of the world's leading british companies, is therefore also concerned with safeguarding acquired rights and providing clear legal guarantees for the future. the commission and the council should therefore be asked to be concrete. where are the problems? where do the interests diverge? what is to happen in the two years of transition and what has already happened? as if they were no longer members of the european union, delegations from the island are travelling around the world - including last week at the wto public forum - and are already trying to prepare for free trade negotiations. the legal situation of the prohibition on negotiation is simply ignored. radical free trade is offered to anyone who wants it. this is a setback for europe, so intervene! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, as a politician i understand that political negotiations take time, that legal studies need to be conducted, that there are political games being played, and maybe i even understand that one side of the house wants to make a circus out of this. but, as a citizen, i must admit i am still completely lost as to what the british government actually wants out of these negotiations. and i think this is deeply worrying. that is why i have two points to make to theresa may, and i think she can clarify them tomorrow in her speech at the party congress: finally, madam prime minister, let us, and the millions of citizens who are waiting for this, know what the british government actually wants out of these negotiations. and secondly – and this is also an important signal to send here from this european parliament – never forget that there is still a way out of this mess. the strength of a leader is demonstrated not by stubbornness but by insight. you can still turn this around, ms may. it is high time to do so!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as someone who holds both german and british citizenship, i continue to deeply regret the developments since may 2016. i believe that brexit is a historic mistake with grave consequences for the united kingdom. there is nothing wrong with brexit, but there is nothing good about it either. but the british way, however irrational it may seem, is of course acceptable. and that is why we should now - and this is what we are doing as a parliament today - seek a proper and reasonable separation and then a landmark agreement on our future relations. many speakers have already pointed out: the commission has not yet made sufficient progress in terms of the conditions for divorce. the british side must deliver concrete results here. and although some progress has been made with the speech in florence, it remains mrs may's task to bring some clarity to the british conservatives tomorrow. and then we'll have to see what happens in the next round of negotiations. otherwise, as has been said on several occasions, it will not happen in october. but it is also in our own interest to organise our future relations with the united kingdom in a sensible way and to maintain an intensive economic and political partnership. i would like to conclude by expressing my gratitude to mr barnier and his entire team. i think that many of us in this house feel that our european concerns are in the best hands with you, mr barnier.
i have to say, madam president, after the beatles broke up, paul mccartney wrote the song too many people: "that was your first mistake, you took your lucky break and you broke it in two". that's consistent with brexit. the british government seems to be slow to grasp the point: their referendum was their first mistake, and the euphoria of the brexiters finally lucky break! has long since passed. you broke it in two. the indivisibility of the internal market and the customs union, the financial commitments that exist, and full recognition of the ecj are not negotiable. there is still no guarantee of reciprocity, equality and non-discrimination of rights for eu citizens in the uk and britons in the eu. and this is also for the children who are born after brexit, because there can be no first and second class family members. mrs. may, you could be in trouble. also a beatles song: we can work it out written before the break up: think of what youre saying. you can get it wrong and still you think that it's alright. think what i'm saying, we can work it out and get it straight, or say good night. it's your choice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have now negotiated over 40 pieces of legislation with the council and have accompanied many trade agreements, but i have never seen the kind of situation we are seeing in the brexit negotiations. i've never seen such a vague position from a negotiating partner. if i watch the party conference in manchester now, who am i listening to? may, johnson, davidson, mogg or hammond? the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we need clarity internally for the eu-uk negotiations, but also beyond! i was in geneva last week to see the wto partners: we want to know how things are going with the uk and the eu. we need clarity here too, in a situation where the world trade system is already in a destabilizing situation. we also need clarity on our future trade agreements with, for example, australia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we can really thank mr barnier, mr verhofstadt for the good cooperation. cooperative and transparent that's how we work!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the spring of this year, olaf, the european union's anti-fraud office, uncovered a customs fraud in the united kingdom that was the result of systematic undervaluation. the damage to our budget to the eu budget amounts to almost two billion euros, a sum which i do not know if it is included in the eu commission's accounts of the final cost of brexit, and an additional €3.2 billion in lost vat for the member states. the british customs know this and they do nothing about it because they are not in a position to do so. he is understaffed and has been instructed by his government to shift the focus of the work to another department. i do not know whether the administrative recommendations made by olaf have been followed up; no legal action has been taken. in this context, i believe that we must pay very close attention to the way in which controls are organised at the irish border. we cannot accept that the integrity of the european union and the customs union be compromised by the sloppy behaviour of british customs. i ask you to pay close attention to this point and to demand guarantees that what is happening to us now will not happen again, because the scandal continues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union's association agreement with the republic of moldova, in my view, places particular emphasis on three points: firstly, respect for democratic principles and the rule of law; secondly, good governance; and thirdly, respect for fundamental and human rights. the commission has already made it clear that it is not possible to guarantee the safety of the citizens of the union by means of a single currency. these urgent reforms must be pursued. i urge the authorities in chișinău to follow all the recommendations of the venice commission in the context of electoral reform. the european union is the largest donor to the republic of moldova. with this resolution we as a parliament are making it clear that the ball is in moldova's court and that if progress is not made in these areas, this must also have consequences for our financial support. the european neighbourhood policy is based on the principle 'more for more'. but this can also mean the opposite, consistently less for less, and all those in charge in chișinău must be aware of this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. skepticism is appropriate, i agree. under so-called pro-european governments, the country has systematically slipped from one scandal to another, and the people of moldova do not really know whether this is the path of the european union. no, it's not him! we've made ourselves a little bit of an accomplice, because we've been too nice and we've looked the other way from time to time. i think the situation has improved today. the economy is starting to recover, if you look at the international monetary fund, if you look at the world bank, you can read that too. reforms are being undertaken. good, but not enough and not fast enough. i agree with that criticism. the reform of the judiciary in particular, and the fight against organised crime and corruption, must bear clear fruit. however, we must not forget the policy towards ngos and media freedom. the reform of the electoral law is a sensitive issue in every country. no one can tell the government in chisinau what kind of electoral system it wants. but it should listen clearly to the venice commission in introducing and in the way it implements the law. i think that is really in their interest, even after what mr mcallister said. i have a lot of confidence in the commission and the foreign office. we don't want to start questioning that by always preferring to travel ourselves and then dissolve the agency. we have not yet discussed in our group whether we approve of what you have proposed. i myself consider this particular point to be excessive and not necessary. i trust mrs mogherini and her staff.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first, a word about electoral reform: so i think that this reform, the way society is polarized about it, should not be done a year before the next election. this is also the main criticism of the venice commission in relation to the preparations of those who are now governing moldova. i don't think this electoral reform will make politicians more trustworthy and reduce corruption in the political elite. this would be better achieved and the venice commission said this too if party funding were made transparent and if there were finally more and independent media in moldova. despite this criticism, i believe it is very important that the european union is reliable towards moldova. we have a chance to achieve something by implementing the association agreement. but we should not give our macrofinancial assistance unconditionally. the citizens of moldova in particular want us to tie our money to successes in fighting corruption.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the moldovan people have opted for a western european policy in many elections. secondly, they have, at their own request, obtained an association and free trade agreement which they have ratified, and it says that this must be developed, including internal development towards the rule of law against corruption. what is important is that the country itself has progress for its citizens, because the rule of law, and anti-corruption are a condition for further investment and jobs. i do not know, mr president, what is wrong with that. that's an agreement that should be there. we must realize that we must support moldova so that it can defend its independence against the neighbour who wants to destroy it! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and one last point: you should not do that with a voting right that is susceptible to manipulation. if you can win constituencies and that doesn't count towards the overall result and then you can get mandates again on the lists, then you can get 80% of the mandates with 50% of the votes and so on. this is a method of voting which is not correct, and for that reason it is a wrong use.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. have you come here to enter into the covenant of marriage with your bride, after mature deliberation and of your own free will? other this question is at the heart of every christian wedding in europe. it's an important question: by free will? unfortunately, this is not a given in the world. 700 million women worldwide are forced into marriage, more than 250 million of them under the age of 15 at the time of the so-called marriage. every year, 15 million girls worldwide are married before they reach their full age - that's one child marriage every two seconds. and this is not a cultural peculiarity, this is not a chivalrous offense. no, forcing children to marry is abusing them. abusing children is a crime. europe is determined to fight child marriage worldwide so it says. it gets much more confusing when we go to the national level. although most member states have now banned child marriages, few are effectively tackling marriages already contracted abroad. these have increased markedly with the current refugee crisis. my passionate appeal is: zero tolerance for child marriages, even if they are contracted abroad! the girls' welfare must be our goal, their future must be our help. now that we've snatched her from the hands of her husbands, we must gently take her back into the hands of the gentle. this should be our common goal today, and this alone: no to child marriage! they're girls, not brides.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. between 2011 and 2020, 140 million child marriages are expected to take place worldwide. in these marriages, young people lose their right to self-determination, sometimes their freedom and their future. they end up in addiction, which often leads to very early pregnancy, which leads to school dropouts and, even more so, to education dropouts. this means that they end up in dependence - dependence on their husbands and, consequently, perhaps on the state. cultures in which this happens - we must be aware of this - are not suitable for this if they want to live in europe. we must therefore ensure that such marriages are not recognised in europe and that people who come here and want to practice child marriage have nothing to lose. we should be very clear about that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the partnership agreement commits the eu and egypt to respect and promote human rights on the basis of international standards. the reality in egypt is different: civil society activists are being spied on, threatened and imprisoned, and human rights organisations report torture, arbitrary detention, the disappearance of detainees, unfair trials, discrimination against minorities and women. we have adopted a resolution here last year, following the assassination of giuglio regeni, which clearly condemns the catastrophic human rights situation in egypt. you, commissioner cañete, mentioned that you had campaigned for this ngo law. but with what result? the latest partnership agreement is a lost opportunity. the eu should have been more decisive in pushing for concrete improvements in the human rights situation. for example, it should have taken a clear stand against the ngo law that has been passed. this restrictive law directly threatens the work of human rights organizations. the eu has failed to speak clearly to egypt. obviously, economic interests are paramount. this is also reflected in the fact that many eu member states are even exporting arms to egypt, in contradiction to the decision of the eu foreign affairs council of august 2013. i think that by this policy in egypt the eu and its member states are complicit in the human rights policy there.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think the most important message to be sent from the bonn conference is that we will continue the process even after donald trump's announcement. the rest of the world is pulling together, climate action is an important issue, and we're very pleased that many in the united states have recognized that. it's sad that the president and his advisors haven't given any thought to the flooding and hurricanes. of course, you can never attribute a single extreme weather event to climate change, but it's clear from the science that such events would increase if we acted like trump and not like the rest of the world. i think it is therefore good that we should make this quite clear in our resolution: the process must continue, and we are pleased that states and others in the united states are continuing to participate. the epp has voted in favour of the resolution in committee because it contains many very important points. it was important to us that the amendments tabled by the committee on industry were taken into account, that we also had the competitiveness of industry in mind, and that extreme proposals were rejected, and fortunately they were not put forward again in the plenary. i think we have an overall balanced resolution. we would like to improve it a little bit with our two amendments, but i think we will in any case be voting in favour tomorrow. i thank our chairman, adina văleano, and all those who have helped to bring about this result, and i look forward to sending a strong signal to the usa and the rest of the world when the vote is taken tomorrow in plenary.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'd like to interrupt your well-being momentarily with a few figures: china is responsible for just over 28% of the co2 emissions in this world. the united states is responsible for about 16 percent of the carbon emissions in this world. india accounts for over 6%, russia for around 4.5%. together, these four countries account for 55 percent of the world's co2 emissions. china has announced that it will not reduce its co2 emissions until 2030. the united states - as you all here lament - has already announced that it is withdrawing from the climate agreement. india has plans underway for 370 new coal plants. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people. russia has not ratified it yet and has announced that it will do so in 2020. let's see. what am i trying to tell you? when mr juncker says that the eu should be in the lead, he probably means that the eu is a leading figure in climate action. these are dwarves who want to achieve something together. ladies and gentlemen, dear climate alarmists, let's look at what we can do. the world's climate will not be saved by the european union, it will not be saved by the european union, and you are making a fool of yourself in bonn with your demands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. while cop23 is being held in germany, the presidency is held by a country that is already hugely affected by climate change - fiji - as are the other pacific island nations. so i think with other colleagues in this house that bonn needs to be a moment again where the world commits to the paris agreement and to climate action, and where we put climate deniers and critics in the box, put them in isolation. we know that right now, of course, we're closer to the three-degree celsius target than we are to the two-degree celsius target. there is no doubt that developed countries such as the eu member states need to do even more. i hope, commissioner, that we can revive the high ambition coalition. we have to do that with our 2030 agenda. parliament is proposing much higher targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency than the commission has, and we must also do much better by 2030. i believe that we also need to have clear objectives for the long term, up to 2050, the actors need to know where they are going and climate protection is also development policy, it is also industrial policy. china has been mentioned here. commissioner, you are doing business with china. be careful that china doesn't overtake us in the pace of innovation and technological change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the window of opportunity to do something about global warming is getting smaller and smaller. we need a transformation towards a policy that focuses on the care of the planet and its inhabitants, rather than on economic growth, corporate profits and the creation of as many jobs as possible. to achieve the climate targets, we need to focus more on the climate-damaging emissions from agriculture. i have already pointed out on several occasions in this house that the global meat and dairy industry is responsible for some 18% of emissions in co2 equivalents. the recent studies show that the clearing of land for livestock farming alone accounts for 20%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the agricultural sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change. whether we save our planet from climate collapse depends on the political will to take new paths. i hope, commissioner, that you will also address these pressing issues in bonn.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. anyone who takes the paris climate targets and climate science seriously knows that we are left with a very tight budget for greenhouse gas emissions. and, mr arias cañete, this is for you: the climate targets you are advocating for the european commission, which are not exceeded or topped up in the council, mean that almost everything that eu member states are still allowed to release under the paris targets will be used up by 2030. their hesitation over the years means that emissions after 2030 - in just a decade! - then have to be brought to zero if we want to have even a small chance of achieving the 2 degree target. and the lack of courage and all the hesitation in the european commission is not only causing us to lose on climate protection, but at the same time it is leaving the european union behind in the international competition for creative solutions and sustainable technologies. it is already the case today - jo leinen has spoken about this - that creative solutions, clean cars, solar and also efficiency technologies are being politically supported and pushed outside the european union - for example in china - that the production sites are also being created there and that the work of the future is taking place there. we believe that what coal and steel were in the founding phase of the european community, that is, its centre, and what has been done there, must now become efficiency technologies, climate technologies, and that this is where the real renewal of the industrial base of the european union lies.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 march 2014 and that the agreement was signed on 27 march 2014. about 700,000 passengers will be affected by this. this raises questions, of course, about whether air passenger rights are being respected. who, for example, bears the extra costs if a flight is cancelled? are the customers also adequately informed? i must ask, where was the irish aviation authority? the commission is also responsible for the approval and must ensure that the operation of the aircraft is smooth. something must have gone wrong, and the people in charge must be pleased. why should flights be cancelled? it is said that punctuality should be increased - and that is perfectly fine - but we know that ryanair has been making headlines for some time now, not only with positive news but also with negative news - negative news, especially as regards the conditions of employment of pilots. could it really be the employment practices of pilots who are paid only when they fly? could it be because of these conditions or relationships of employment? commissioner, you as commissioner must ensure that this is not carried out on the backs of colleagues and customers.
mr president, commissioner bulc, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and the airline was signed on 20 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2015. i cannot accept any of the reasons given by ryanair for the delays and cancellations. the crucial question now is whether or not the existing rights of air passengers have been respected in this marathon of cancellations. i would therefore encourage all passengers concerned to find out their rights and to enforce them with the appropriate national authorities. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ams and ryanair. depending on the route missed, compensation of 250, 400 or even 600 euros may be due if the information was late and a travel alternative with few deviations was not possible. i do not trust the promises made about ryanair's future flight behaviour. i believe that this situation is one more reason to encourage the council of transport ministers not to block the revision of the air passenger rights, which was already adopted in our house on 5 february 2014. we urgently need this revision of the 2004 regulation to ensure that air passenger rights are enforced in a more effective and uniform manner.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. ryanair has announced that 98% of passengers affected by cancellations in september and october have received a refund or rebooking. if you weren't informed about airline passenger rights, you'd think, "man, that's great what they did". the problem is that they haven't educated their passengers about all the options that exist there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and you're also obligated as an airline to offer rebooking on more expensive airlines. i think it is very good that the irish aviation authority just last week actually practically forced ryanair to inform passengers of their rights ex post facto. the point is that, when this is done, it is no wonder that many people are actually saying that air passenger rights must be tightened up. it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but that it has been consulted on the matter. we need this urgently, because it must be so that you, as a passenger, also get your rights and can rely on the airlines.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. 18 000 flights have been cancelled, affecting almost 800 000 customers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate in the airspace of the european union. a colleague told me what it was like. she was flying from riga to frankfurt. cancelled the flight, no text, no email, no food stamps, no assistance, information only on a hotline that was turned on three hours later, rebooking only for a ryanair flight a week later! everything else was rejected. there was no coverage for accommodation, for food, no refund. and when she said that, they said, "yes, you didn't take out ryanair cancellation insurance, so you're not getting any money". you knew exactly what was going on! you broke the law. we cannot accept that. a law that does not prosecute and punish, that is not sanctioned, is not a good law! the commission, the member states and the organisations are therefore called upon to follow up. the customer comes first, not ryanair, which exploits its colleagues, which exploits its pilots. that's why there weren't enough pilots left to do it. the false independence must be punished and this wage dumping must stop! we must not lose our credibility here in europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. it is not that passengers do not know their rights. even if they know them and want to bring them in, ryanair is the one who knows the rights exactly, but does not want to enforce them! that is the problem, not the incompetence of the passengers, but the brutal behaviour of ryanair towards passengers who are demanding their own rights! that is the scandal, not the ignorance of the passengers!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr faria, i'm not going to tell you. a very short question: 800 000 passengers in the shortest possible time. could you tell me how many of the passengers who may have flown from hamburg to ukraine or elsewhere for 15 euros really believed that they were covering their costs?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we're discussing eds, endocrine disruptors -- unpleasant but ubiquitous: toys for children, lipstick, s-pesticides, everywhere -- many of them completely unexplored in their effects. this is why the eu has been active since 2000 in finding new ways to combat eds. since 2009, we have been negotiating the registry system discussed today to better detect and ban eds. i'm not happy with the length of this trial. i think the system proposed by the commission is at best a small step in the right direction - a step which many must follow. i am therefore also concerned about the negative attitude of some. do we really want to throw away five years of scientific work, and go back to zero, when we were just on the right track? i'm not going to. because voting against it is voting against the health of our children. let us follow the scientists, not the lobby for the citizens. i therefore respect the warnings of the 3 000 petitioners and numerous non-governmental organizations. let us start in the right direction - for our environment, for our children, against hormone-disrupting chemicals!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i hope we are all aware that endocrine disruptors are a serious problem. that is why the legislator banned them in pesticides in 2009 for good reason. the 2009 mandate was for the commission to set criteria on how to scientifically assess endocrine disruptors and how to set consensual criteria. the commission is now proposing something much more. it goes beyond that because in many respects the commission is not trying to set criteria but is simply trying to get rid of environmental bans. we cannot tolerate this, commissioner! you are changing a legal basis, so to speak, and so it is not a question of how to evaluate this, but it is a highly problematic political decision that you are making here and that we cannot accept. our legal service at parliament says very clearly: this is an offence! if we as a parliament are serious - and this must be made very clear - then this parliament must veto this. you have plenty of time to revise it and make a new template. but we are not going to let time pressure get the better of us. you've had plenty of time to come up with something sensible. i am afraid that you have not done so, commissioner.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. it is not only the costa concordia accident that has led us to discuss ship safety in this parliament, but also other shipwrecks that have occurred. it was simply time to take ship safety to a new level, also in terms of materials and digitization, and that's what happened with this. this is of course very, very important, because shipping is becoming increasingly popular. it is not just cargo ships that are involved, but above all passenger ships and ferries. it is very important that we now find a solution which is not only adapted to the current situation but also means less bureaucracy, avoids duplication and, at the same time, means better legislation. that is what the new commission has been striving for. we very much welcome this and therefore we very much support it in this parliament. malta is a seafaring nation. the maltese presidency has negotiated this. and the maltese are gone, but that was also a very big success. so again, congratulations to all those involved!
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. safety of life at sea that's the solas convention. we must, of course, comply with that. the trade unions responsible for the crews are also strongly behind this, so that the working and living conditions on board the ships are continually improved. but we also look at passengers in a particular way, and passengers must be registered as soon as possible when they board such a ship. this data should be digitized. they should also be transmitted to the port of call of that passenger ship via the automatic ship identification system, even if such an it system is not on board. it is in difficult situations - when search and rescue is called for, that is, when accidents at sea are imminent - that the means of rescue must be available, and land-based rescue units must of course also be able to reach such a passenger ship as quickly as possible. we have just heard from mr riquet, whom i would like to thank once again for his good work, very concrete examples of this. the shipbuilding industry, of course, plays a crucial role, and it is evolving. estonia: what was the cause of this incredible shipwreck? the bow hatch didn't close properly, and seawater entered the cargo hold, a clear surface, and within a short time, this ferry sank, and 800 people died. we need to have that kind of thing on it. whether aluminum structures or steel structures are the right ones, i think both work very well. and of course, in the case of high-speed ferries, it is also necessary that the power of the engine is adequate, also in the case of other passenger ships, so that there is manoeuvrability, the rudder system is in order, the rescue equipment is there. we can also, in principle, shape the future of european shipping.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, in two weeks’ time, the 28 heads of state or government will be meeting in brussels. president tusk has put four items on the agenda: migration, digital europe, defence and external relations. let me take them one by one. the first item on the agenda is migration. recent developments are encouraging. illegal flows along the central mediterranean route have gone down significantly. the determined action of the eu as a whole, together with the resolute bilateral efforts from member states, is yielding results. leaders will want to consolidate these trends and root them in a long-term vision. this is why we need to scale up our work with international partners. this is also why a strong partnership with countries of origin and transit is indispensable. tackling the root causes is the only way to handle this challenge of irregular immigration in the long term. concerning the future common european asylum system, the european council is expected to welcome progress already achieved and to call for further convergence to reach an agreement which strikes the right balance between responsibility and solidarity and ensures resilience to future crises. second on the agenda, leaders will come back to the digital vision for europe, following the successful digital summit in tallinn last friday. behind the concept of a digital europe lies more than the digital single market. the leaders will of course also want to take stock of the progress made on the concrete legislative proposals under the digital single market but there is much more. the question today is quite simply whether europe is gearing up to meet the challenges and opportunities of the digital revolution. this is a key challenge for the future of europe. it has an impact on all aspects of our lives, be it our citizens, our businesses or our governments. leaders already touched upon this issue last june. digital was also the focus of the summit last friday in tallinn in which you, president tajani, also participated. in october, the european council will provide further guidance to ensure that europe is well equipped for this transformational change. let me now turn to the third item on the agenda, defence. leaders established a comprehensive work programme in december 2016. they moved the discussion further in june 2017 with additional guidance focused on permanent structured cooperation (pesco), but also on eu battlegroups and the industrial dimension of eu defence. more has been achieved in the last year than in a decade. leaders are keeping a close eye on progress to maintain this momentum. in october, they will review efforts to launch an inclusive and ambitious permanent structured cooperation. discussions are moving in the right direction. leaders will want to push for a rapid agreement on that basis. the last item on the agenda of the european council is external relations. leaders will discuss recent developments on the international stage. one of the topics for this debate will be relations with turkey. it is a little too early to pin down the other topics which will require leaders’ attention. i will therefore leave this open. to conclude, i would also like to mention that leaders will meet as 27 in october as well. you discussed the latest state of play of the brexit negotiations yesterday. you adopted a resolution and, as you know, a fifth round of negotiations is scheduled for next week. the european council, under article 50, will be the occasion for the 27 leaders to review the state of the negotiations.
, vice-president of the commission. other mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago, in his state of the union address, president juncker called on this house to take advantage of a situation which is currently quite favourable to us. it is true that today europe is enjoying an economic recovery that is beginning to be felt in all our member states and a renewed confidence. new opportunities are opening up, and the ball is in our court. let us take it as a leap, because in reality we still have a long way to go to move from a temporary economic improvement to a lasting improvement, which will be felt in all our regions by all our citizens, including young people looking for a job. we still have a long way to go before we move from a renewed confidence to a genuine commitment to a common future. the next european council, in ten days' time, must be an opportunity to take a few more steps in this direction, in the same spirit of urgency and energy as that which emerged from the recent speeches by jean-claude juncker, emmanuel macron and antonio costa. we must remain firmly on course, responding concretely to the expectations and concerns of our citizens, and not compromising on our values, including respect for the rule of law. the time has come to set ambitious but achievable goals by 2025 for a more united, stronger and more democratic union of 27. honourable members, the europe we are working for each day is a europe which protects its citizens, which empowers and defends them. the digital agenda which was at the heart of the discussions at the tallinn summit, and which will also be on the agenda for the european council, is one example of where we really need to show concrete results. since the start of the mandate, this commission has presented some 40 initiatives, 24 of which are legislative proposals. we have proposed action ranging from making sure high quality internet is available in public spaces for thousands of local communities, to measures to combat threats to cybersecurity and to ensure that personal data is as well protected online as it is offline. we have launched a discussion about how best to ensure that services provided through online platforms are effectively taxed. it is now time to find agreement on the 18 legislative proposals which are pending here in this house and in the council. i hope that we can see little progress in particular on the telecoms package, the revision of the audiovisual media services directive, and on our recent proposals on cybercrime. the commission would also like to see timely progress on the other new proposals made together with the state of the union speech. trade in particular is an area where urgent action is needed to take advantage of the momentum. the european council will also pay particular attention to migration. last week, the commission presented our views on how to ensure and consolidate the ongoing work on the european agenda on migration. we have identified where and what further efforts are needed in coming months. particular attention must be given to stepping up returns and to resettlement, whilst the reform of the common european asylum system in dublin now needs to be completed as soon as possible. we must also continue our work with priority third countries and the commission would like to see a concerted effort from leaders when it comes to the issue of financing, where we need to live up to our collective promises and we are living up to them today. finally, the european council will also review progress on defence. the commission is closely following the developments on permanent structured cooperation. the commission wants to encourage greater cooperation in defence in line with the treaty and stands ready to support it with the instruments at its disposal. for this, we need to ensure an early agreement on the proposed european defence industrial development programme. honourable members, together we have more or less 18 months to finish the job and deliver on the 10 priorities on the basis of which this house approved the college in 2014. if we fail, this will be a collective failure. to the outside world it makes no difference whether we failed because the commission made the wrong proposals, or parliament or council took too long. when we succeed, it will be our collective success. when we fail, it will also be our collective failure. i set out in the road map for a more united, stronger and more democratic union. europe now has an opportunity to look further ahead. the road map sets out a path to march 2019 when our union will sadly become a union of 27. it is in sibiu, romania, on the banks of the cibin river in transylvania, that we should reaffirm this union and our confidence in our future together, a union based on our values, a union of equals, a union able to deliver for its citizens on the things that matter most. we saw in tallinn that there is now a real appetite amongst european leaders to move forward together, but we cannot wait until march 2019 to start the work and we cannot be bogged down in process, treaty changes or institutional wrangles in the meantime. that is why in the letter of intent, jean-claude juncker and i laid out a concrete set of actions which are all achievable under the current treaties to prepare the europe of 2025. i can assure you that we will continue to work alongside you every step of the way, starting with a social summit in gothenburg where i hope we can proclaim the european pillar of social rights. and then in december, with the euro area summit underpinned by concrete proposals to deliver a strong economic and monetary union and ensure the lasting stability and success of our european single currency. this summit will be inclusive with the participation of those eu members whose intention is to introduce the euro before 2025. i know jean-claude is looking forward to organizing the summit together with president tusk. the commission will then present its full package of proposals on the emu on 6 december. for dutch and flemish people, i would say on st nicholas day. i trust that the commission can count on the full support of this house as we implement the road map together. let us use the next 18 months to deliver positive change in the lives of europeans and to set the course for a more united, stronger and more democratic union for the future. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr vice-president, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the people expect us to take practical action, and i thank both the council representative and frans timmermans for this basic approach, that we are now dealing with the issues that concern people. i also think it is important to mention what frans timmermans has done, namely to talk first about the successes. the only way to convince people of our project and to take them with us is to talk about successes. growth in the euro area is strong and solid, we have reduced unemployment to pre-crisis levels, debt in the euro area, in the european union is low compared to the americans, the japanese, other major currency areas. and we have also made great progress on the second major task, which is to solve the migration problem. compared to 2015, when we had the big migration flows, the numbers at the external border have been reduced by over 80%. europe delivers, europe is moving forward, and we can tackle the big tasks together. and yesterday we also achieved a great success: mr salvatore cicu, together with all the leaders of the other groups, found a new investment protection and new wto rules in partnership with all the parties. we want world trade, but we europeans also want to be able to defend ourselves when unfair world trade is practised. great strides for this continent! i believe that we are entitled to speak of europe delivering. the council is about the tasks that lie ahead of us. the main issue is certainly the continent's great open wound, and that is still the question of migration. despite successes, there is still no legislative solution to how we can solve the migration issue permanently. the epp group is clear that europe must help. we must provide shelter for people fleeing civil war. on the other hand, we need control and a strong state to put an end to the trafficking gangs and organised crime. that is why we must work on further strengthening border protection. why not further strengthen frontex, for example by building up more capacity for direct intervention at certain schengen borders? secondly, we need cooperation with the united nations. the commission's proposal last week to offer a quota of 50 000 for resettlement is the right way forward. the united nations controlled, structured way of bringing people in need to europe to offer them better care according to humanitarian criteria, and also security controls - that is the right way. the third thing we need to clarify is that the question of asylum is not up for debate. asylum is a fundamental right of the european union, which we have won through many bloody experiences. that is why the right of asylum must not be discussed in any way. they need real help there. and lastly, solidarity with africa, fighting the causes of displacement. europe will only be able to live in peace for a long time if africa also has a reasonable future. the second big issue is the digital agenda. i am grateful for the many proposals that the commission has put forward. the urgency is obvious. europe will only progress if we act together to achieve economies of scale. we must strike a balance between seizing opportunities and implementing our values. the epp group would like to make it clear that we as europeans already have the task of providing this digital single market with a framework shaped by our values. for example, the copyright we are discussing is a value we have recognized. we have to protect intellectual property. and that needs to be enforced in the digital world, principles need to be enforced, because that's the only way we're going to defend our way of life. the next big issue will be security policy and foreign policy. i would like to make two points on foreign policy. firstly, i would like to express my group's full support for federica mogherini and our colleagues in the foreign policy area, and to say that we consider the agreements with iran to be essential. it would be a catastrophic development if we now opened up a second nuclear conflict in this world in addition to the north korea conflict. what europe has achieved with the iran agreement is an example of how we resolve these conflicts through agreements, not war. we hope that europe will speak a clear language. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had positive experiences, as in france, and we have also had negative experiences, as for example in germany, where populists and extremists are once again entering parliament in force. that means that the debate, the fight against these simplifiers, remains on our table. i would like to make one comment, mr gianni pittella, on the social democrats, because we have seen from the german experience on the eve of the elections a week ago that the german social democrats have refused from the outset to take part in any discussion on the formation of a government. martin schulz has decided to go into opposition immediately. i personally think it's right that we as democrats talk to each other first. it may be the result of talks that you go into opposition, but it's not the starting point that you go into opposition. i am speaking about this because we have seen it in the netherlands and spain, and we have seen that social democracy is increasingly avoiding responsibility. i hope that doesn't stick. (applause from the epp group)
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not an exciting debate it is particularly exciting who is talking about what. mr weber has started by talking about the german bundestag and the formation of a government. mr weber, we look forward to your joining the greens in politics and then going to the elections in bavaria next year. we look forward to seeing how you will take a hard line on immigration. we are looking at this with great pleasure and interest. the council is talking about digital, about defence, about foreign relations, and then in about 45 seconds, there's also the issue of migration on the sidelines. that's what sets you apart from mr timmermans, who hasn't talked about migration for so long. they talked about the boom that we're seeing everywhere, about the values that we want to preserve, about the digital agenda, about cybersecurity, broadband, trade. but you have hardly touched on the crucial issue which will decide the future of the european union. but that's the way it is. we are now two years into the dramatic refugee crisis, and two questions remain unanswered. firstly, how do we prevent millions more from entering europe? secondly, how do we bring back those who came here illegally? we must state: the balkan route is still open. those who are committed to it are attacked the hardest. this is mr orbán, who is being attacked and not defended. at the same time, we support macedonia - not a member of the eu, not a member of the schengen area. we are building fences there, we are supporting the construction of fences there, but when mr orbán does that, he is criticized. we make deals with warlords all over the world, like mr. erdoğan on the bosporus. this is the wrong way. we still don't have the australian solution. we must, like france, suspend the european convention on human rights so that we can rescue refugees in the mediterranean and then drag them back instead of across to europe. instead, we're making deals with libyan warlords - all wrong. mr juncker said that 36% of illegals are deported, are returned - an astonishing figure! in germany, it is about 5%. how mr juncker gets to 36% i have no idea. the refugees - and this is completely forgotten - have only temporary protection, a temporary right to stay, and if there is a possibility in the countries from which they come to return or to establish safe zones there so that they can return, then we must support this. that's what we should be focusing on. and i'm talking, of course, about afghanistan and about syria. but mr timmermans and the council, continue to talk about broadband. then we shall see how this union develops. if you can get to the right issues at some point, we might be able to move forward. not like that!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is good that the european council in two weeks' time is discussing the future of the european union and that we do not have to deal only with the current crisis. we must look ahead and say what the european union has to do. i say yes to a strong, efficient europe, where we need common solutions - in the fight against terrorism, in defence, in asylum and migration and in international trade. yes, we need a common european asylum law, effective border protection. we need to introduce biometrically-secured identity documents and return refugees who have no right to stay, and we also need to engage in africa. i think it is very good that one of the priorities of the european council is the issue of migration and asylum. i would like to remind my colleagues on the right who want to show us that we have delivered nothing, that we have done nothing, once again to recall the figures in all their clarity. i don't know why we're having this discussion if no one's listening. it is not just the european parliament, but the european parliament as a whole, which is the most important institution in the world. if that's not a success, then i have to ask myself, where are we living? we have fought the smugglers, we have fought the smugglers on the ground, ladies and gentlemen. and when we talk to the african countries, that's the right solution. it is not all easy and good, but - excuse me - we are tackling this problem together in europe. i am opposed to these populists who say that everything is rubbish, that nothing has been done. we can already look back with a certain amount of pride on what we have decided together in this house. we're not at the end of the road, but we're on the right track. i hope that the council summit in two weeks' time will also take decisive steps. yes, we are solving our problems together here in europe! this is what makes us strong and gives me hope for the future of this common europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i would point out that there is 30 seconds for questions like this and 30 seconds for answers. in order to keep to the schedule, i will be strictly adhering to this without further knocking. mr sulík, you cannot spend 24 of those 30 seconds on a statement. these blue cards are for questions, not statements.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. europe is based on common principles of the rule of law, and unlike others, i believe that anyone who can claim asylum is entitled to do so and is welcome in europe. on your specific question: we must solve the problem of refugees and migration at the external borders, and if we can also, as has been shown, set up transit centres in african countries here, then i believe that this is the right way to go.
i would point out that i do not accept a blue card if i have withdrawn the floor from the speaker concerned for exceeding the speaking time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is certainly a clear shot in the arm. my hope that strasbourg will use the uk referendum as an opportunity to question what went wrong has not been fulfilled. instead, they want to use the supposed opportunity to install a central european state. i am therefore particularly surprised at the reluctance of my german colleagues in the bundestag election campaign. if you are so convinced of the rightness of a european unemployment insurance scheme, dear comrades of the spd, why have you not been aggressive in dealing with it in the last few weeks? and if you are convinced of the lack of alternative to european finance ministers, european taxes and european centralism, dear comrades of the cdu and csu, dear mr weber, why did you not raise this issue in the bundestag election campaign? i'm afraid you're aware that you can't win an election in germany with these points. that is why it is unfair that you are now supporting a transfer union here in strasbourg without informing the german electorate of your intention and the consequences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rules of procedure provide that speakers are to be heard on the agenda. there will be a debate this afternoon on the subject that is being raised by many here. but the council's agenda does not include this subject, which is the subject of much discussion here. so maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea if we made sure that we focused on the agenda. this is just a suggestion to the colleagues who will be speaking shortly.
thank you very much, my colleague count lambsdorff. i have discussed the matter with president tajani. on the one hand you are right, of course, but on the other hand, i am sure that everyone can claim that this issue will of course also shape the forthcoming summit, and that is why the members will refer to it. i will not interfere. i think the commissioner should be aware of this. but i will be very careful that interim questions are interim questions and not interim statements, and i will be very careful to observe the speaking time and to treat everyone equally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i joined this house in 2004, when the baltic states and poland, the czech republic and slovakia, hungary and hungary became members of the european union. it is still a miracle to me that we live together in unity and freedom and peace on a free continent, where unity is clearly not unity on every issue. whether it is migration or the market economy, energy policy or enlargement, there are some very different approaches between east and west, between north and south. i think it is important that in all the debates we have here we do not fail to respect each other, that we also listen to other opinions, no matter what the issues are. i am glad that the european union has now received a new impetus through the speeches of jean-claude juncker, but especially emmanuel macron, and i will continue to work for the european union from the german parliament in the near future. this is my last speech after 13 years. thank you very much for your cooperation. i will never forget that as a young german member of parliament i was able to work here with a man like bronisław geremek. it was a very moving experience. i thank all my colleagues and i bid you farewell. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, my colleague count lambsdorff. good luck in your new job in the new parliament!
i shall take the liberty in future to interrupt the questioner too, if it is not a question. and if the person asked does not answer, then i will also allow myself to interrupt the answer.
mr sulík, you have no further say. and your wordy explanations that this wasn't a statement before are nice, and it's especially nice that you do it in german, but it's just not true. if you want to make debates more lively, you can do that, there are many ways, but not by some systematically going to the limits of the rules and beyond. and if you think that your comment about my decision was a statement and that's going to be deducted from your speaking time, then you're wrong, too. the rules of procedure. please, mr. sulick, please. that would have been the right way.
i'm not going to die. i would first of all recommend that you should try to get more speaking time in your group. the same rules apply to everyone here. secondly, i would ask you to make an effort to get the representatives of your group on the afco committee to think about changes to the rules of procedure, to think about ways of making the debate more lively. but the rule that only mr. sulík is helped does not exist, and it will not exist.
madam president, the promise of the european union is the unconditional validity of fundamental rights, including freedom of speech. it is the commission and the council’s responsibility to uphold these values when they are threatened inside the eu, and this is not an internal matter. this week, the front pages show images of charges of spanish police in catalan schools. another serious form of repression took place in the weeks leading up to this weekend. spanish police raided the registrar of the internet domain ‘.cat’. its cto, pep masoliver, was held for more than 60 hours and is now facing criminal prosecution. more than 140 domains were blocked and a number of domains were seized, including websites run by civil society organisations. these measures are counterproductive; they undermine freedom of speech and they set a dangerous precedent for a europe that wants to be a champion of digital rights. the european institutions should immediately offer intermediation to help de-escalate the situation, and i call upon both sides of the conflict to accept such an offer and refrain from further steps that would escalate the situation. it should be on the top of every agenda, including the european council meeting.
i am not sure that this is the case. i have understood your intervention not as a question to mrs gardini but as a rule of procedure. that's why i gave you more than 30 seconds. we can't just mix and match. if you had listened to my reply to mr lambsdorff earlier, you would have known that i had discussed this with the president and that, even if it is not on the agenda, it will certainly be discussed at the summit and i cannot restrict the freedom of individual members to set priorities here in the context of this debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the challenge: refugees! some people are betting on a lockdown at all costs. real solutions are different. three main points: firstly, to protect fewer refugees in europe and european values, that is, to combat the causes of refugees and to strengthen the countries of origin and transit so that they too can offer protection and new prospects. secondly, fast and transparent asylum procedures and agreements with countries of origin, the return of rejected asylum seekers. thirdly, clear pathways for labour migration, combined with rules to prevent wage and social dumping. by the way, many say that we would like to help genuine refugees. it is astonishing how low the resettlement figures are! walls are not the answer. let us face this challenge together, bravely!
i would like to thank mr. i don't think comparisons with the nazi era are appropriate.
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i beg your understanding. we have three times as many demands as we actually have time windows. that is why i shall take only one colleague from each group into account. catch the eye
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today’s debate is carefully worded as being about the constitution, the rule of law and fundamental rights in spain in the light of the events in catalonia. in europe, after the second world war, then after the end of dictatorships in spain, portugal and greece, and again after the fall of the berlin wall, we have shaped our democratic societies on the basis of three principles: democracy, respect for the rule of law, and human rights. the three need each other. they cannot exclude each other. you cannot use one against the other. if you remove one pillar, then the others will fall too. respect for the rule of law is not optional: it is fundamental. if the law does not give you what you want, you can oppose the law, you can work to change the law, but you cannot ignore the law. (applause)so it is fundamental that the constitutions of every one of our member states are upheld and respected, and this is the basis for our debate today. in that debate, we should be guided by the values set out in article 2 of the treaty on european union, values which are common to member states and citizens, and on which our union is founded. as jean-claude juncker said in his state of the union address to this house last month, our union is not a state but it is a community of law. we must never lose sight of this. there is general consensus that the regional government of catalonia chose to ignore the law when organising the referendum held last sunday, the spanish constitutional court having suspended the catalan laws on the organisation of the referendum and issued daily penalties against those who went against its orders. that does not change the fact that we have all seen saddening images from sunday. let me be clear: violence does not solve anything in politics. it is never an answer, never a solution, and it can never be used as a weapon or instrument. europe knows this better than anywhere else. none of us want to see violence in our societies. however, it is a duty of any government to uphold the rule of law, and this sometimes requires the proportionate use of force. we understand that people wanted to express their views. freedom of expression is a fundamental right for all european citizens, and thus for all spanish citizens. but one opinion is not more valuable than another opinion only because it is expressed more loudly. as the commission has stated, under the spanish constitution sunday’s vote in catalonia was not legal. looking ahead, it is clear that an agreed way forward is needed in spain. in the commission’s view, as president juncker has reiterated repeatedly, this is an internal matter for spain that has to be dealt with in line with the constitutional order of spain. that is why the commission has called on all relevant parties to move quickly now from confrontation to dialogue. the power of dialogue – of sitting down and talking to each other even if, and especially when, we passionately disagree – is what our union is built on. all lines of communication must stay open. it is time to talk, to find a way out of the impasse, while working within the constitutional order of spain. at the end of the day, the real answers can only come from all those concerned. those directly concerned are all 46 million europeans who are spanish citizens. those indirectly concerned are all europeans who are citizens of all the other member states. jean-claude juncker is in touch with prime minister mariano rajoy, who, i trust, will ensure that the situation is resolved in a spirit of dialogue and in full respect for the spanish constitution and the fundamental rights of citizens. this must be the goal for all of us. allow me to stress that the development of spain since the spanish people liberated themselves from dictatorship is one of the greatest success stories europe has seen in its history. (applause) in less than my lifetime, spain was transformed from a nation under the boot of a dictator into a nation that leads globally in a great many areas, where every citizen has full rights protected by the rule of law, where culture flourishes and the economy grows. this is the awe-inspiring achievement of all spaniards, including catalans. it would not have been possible without full respect for the rule of law, respect for the separation of powers, and respect for the rulings of judges. and, let me add, nowhere is attachment to the rule of law stronger than in those nations which have memories of what it means to be deprived of it. all this was achieved through hard work, commitment, dialogue and respect for diversity. please let this inspire all of us to leave the path of confrontation and follow the road of cooperation and dialogue to resolve the situation. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, nobody can remain indifferent to what we have seen in catalonia over the last days. we are very sorry for all those who were hurt. the news arriving from catalonia is extremely worrisome. citizens were hurt, but so also were policemen who were sent to stop the referendum – not by the spanish government, they were sent by catalan judges to defend the rule of law. the european people’s party (epp) rejects force as a political solution. european history teaches us that violence is never an answer. what is at stake today is the integrity of an eu member state, and this justifies the debate we are having today. an epp group colleague, who is from catalonia, yesterday told us: ‘i am catalan and i am spanish.’ it is not a conflict between catalonia and spain, he said, it is a conflict within catalonia. a government without a majority of votes in the last elections is using all means for this escalation. we as the epp, cannot accept such a behaviour. europe is built upon the rule of law and spain is built upon the rule of law. there is no doubt that spain is a country that guarantees fundamental rights for all citizens. we stand by the freedom to demonstrate. for a living democracy, freedom of demonstrations is not only indispensable, it is also desired. nevertheless, demonstrations cannot replace a democratic decision-making process in a society. not the protests on the streets, but the institutions in a democracy in spain, will decide on the future of the country. let me be very clear: mass demonstrations in barcelona will not change the constitution of spain. only democratic institutions can do so. for the moment, everybody is focusing on the separatists, but who is taking the perspective of the rest of the country into account? spaniards from catalonia, aragon, castilians, have been living together in one country over centuries peacefully and now an irresponsible government in catalonia is splitting the country. the spanish legal situation is clear for us: in spain, no person in charge, not even the catalan regional government, is allowed to disregard the law. the rights of all spanish citizens have to be respected. it is unacceptable that a few catalan politicians encourage civil servants, officials and citizens to break the law. from our point of view, the referendum is not valid. the legal base was not adopted in line with the constitution of catalonia. it is against the spanish constitution, and last sunday, the catalan authorities were changing the electoral law 45 minutes before the so-called referendum started. this is not credible behaviour. another point dear friends is also clear: we need an inner-spanish dialogue, on the basis of spanish law. we appeal to everybody, please sit all together. instead of further escalations, we call upon all the actors involved to engage in dialogue in spain, but first and foremost in catalonia itself. a peaceful dialogue in spain is necessary. we will not find a solution to this spanish internal conflict here in the european parliament. this conflict can only be solved by the spanish people itself. the eu has neither the will nor the right to intervene in a true liberal democracy such as spain. the dialogue has to be frank. the times in europe in which division trumped compromise, hatred won over cooperation and egoism beat solidarity, have long gone. as a bavarian, i know that nation states are compatible with proud regions. europe needs both strong nation states and regional diversity. for today we appeal to the catalan authorities: do not take irreversible steps and please keep in mind that whoever leaves spain, leaves the european union. this means leaving the internal market, leaving the schengen area and leaving the eurozone. is this really in the catalans’ best interest? europe is living in historic times. this morning, we asked for more european cooperation in our debate. the european way of life does not need division, but unity in diversity. the european way of life needs not more nationalism but more cooperation. the european way of life needs not more egoism but solidarity and the willingness to compromise. we are sorry for all people hurt. we stand behind spain’s integrity. we support the spanish government and the politicians who respect the rule of law and we ask everybody for a constructive, peaceful dialogue in a european spirit. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, last sunday will be remembered as a sad day and, i think, not just in spain but all over europe. we saw peaceful citizens confronted with a huge police force ready to use all the force they had. families, pensioners, people of all backgrounds, were confronted with a state that was willing to use almost all means to stop the referendum from taking place. the world was watching while this was happening, while the riot police met people with brutality, charging with batons and even firing rubber bullets. polling stations and hotels, schools and city halls and streets were turned into front lines between national police and their own citizens. what happened in spain is unacceptable. i think it will unfortunately also set the image that we all have of the situation for the future. this was massive police violence against peaceful people, and that was beyond any proportionality. violence so disproportionate cannot be justified, no buts and no excuses. whatever you think about the referendum, whatever you think of independence, i think that has to be clear: that violence is not a mean for solving political conflict. and whatever the views about the referendum and everything, it is also clear that the strategy of prime minister rajoy has clearly failed. he has refused the dialogue that was offered and he has used and reverted more to judicial means, to police means. but the judges cannot solve a political problem, police cannot solve a political problem. criminal prosecution cannot work that way. it is inappropriate. what we need is a political solution, but rather than doing that rajoy has worsened the problem. he has escalated the situation. the massive mobilisation we saw yesterday: it is not just independentists who are appalled by what happened last sunday. i really think that rajoy has not really been helpful in this situation. in the future, i believe the spanish government must refrain from using police violence against peaceful people. it must aim to find a political solution, because the catalan crisis is a political crisis, a political problem and therefore it needs to be solved politically, not by police force. the political solution must always mean that people talk to each other, that all sides talk to each other. i believe the european union has a role to play in that because the whole affair is not just an internal matter for spain. spain and catalonia are inside the european union. president juncker cannot sit on the fence and just watch from berlaymont what is happening and how the conflict escalates. the catalan crisis is a european affair. it goes to the heart of the european union’s fundamental values because the european union is built on the conscious decision to live together on this continent, settling our differences, however great they might be, through dialogue, through negotiation and through compromise rather than through violence. it is wrong, i believe, that the commission shies away. it is its duty as the guardian of the treaty to get involved and help in solving this problem, to offer mediation, to offer its help. i think this is something i would really expect of the european union. citizens all over europe are looking at us, looking at what we are doing in the european union. i think it is important that we offer our help, that we promote dialogue, that we tell both sides to stop escalations. the commission can be an honest broker here. colleagues and commissioner, i think it is very important that all of us understand how grave the situation is and how easily and how quickly it can escalate even further. no one knows what tomorrow will bring. i think if we have any chance at all to do something, to do our small bit, then we should do it. i believe, mr timmermans, that you have a chance to do something and i hope that we will use it all together. the spanish and the catalan governments, of course, also have their responsibility. they have to agree to negotiate, to sit together, to accept mediation and to prevent further escalation. the whole crisis is a breakdown of the rules and the democratic consensus that so far ensured a peaceful and non-violent relationship between spain and catalonia. the right to self-determination is firmly anchored in international law, and both sides, both the spanish government as well as the catalan government, have to take the responsibility to find a common solution for how to put it into place in a peaceful and in a democratic way. further police violence and intimidation will not solve the problem. many actors have called for dialogue, including all over catalonia, such as the mayor of barcelona, ada colau, many people have called for dialogue. colleagues here have said that this is the way forward. i think this is something we all have to agree on. the european union is built on dialogue. we have to solve political problems by political means and dialogue is the only way forward. (applause)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on a topical subject under rule 153a of the rules of procedure: 'the fiscal compact and its integration into the eu legal framework' (2017/2866 ((rsp)). there is no catch-the-eye procedure or blue cards in this kind of debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not it is well known that monetary unions break up if fiscal discipline is not exercised in all member states. the president of the eurogroup, jeroen dijsselbloem, has drawn a comparison which has caused great excitement in the house. he said, "if you're having fun with women and booze, you can't expect others to pay the piper!" schäuble said that too. just be careful. why is it that we are always talking about the need to make the fiscal pact more effective, to change something about it, to integrate it? why is that? it's very simple! if countries are not held accountable for their decisions, they cannot be held accountable for certain things! it's like a football game. we have rules of football, and rules are punished. you get a yellow card for that. and every player knows that a second foul is not a second yellow card, but a red card. every player knows that repeated violations of the rules can result in a disqualification. but if there are no red cards, you can show as many yellow cards as you want, nothing will change! we have a system here at the fiscal compact where only yellow cards are shown. so we keep asking ourselves, why isn't it getting better? now jean-claude juncker and emmanuel macron have proposed a european finance minister and a budget of their own. but the finance minister is nothing but the continuation of the fiscal pact. if the countries do not want to, then they will not be disciplined. because if we say we have an indissoluble community of fate, and no country has to leave the euro area, then we can't be surprised that there are rule breaks over rule breaks. the consequence will be that only the funds, the budgets for the euro area will remain i.e. further transfers, a fiscal drainage. but what we also know as economists is that when subsidies and transfers are introduced, they do not stop at some point, they perpetuate themselves! this is the knowledge of economics and politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i think is a very good one. but the thing about the european monetary union is that we do not ask ourselves: is this fair? we are asking ourselves: what do we have to do to keep the euro area together? that's breaking the rules, too! i would like the commission and this house to apply the rule of law to monetary union too.
- i'm not sure. there is rule 164 in our rules of procedure. if you feel that you have been personally addressed or offended or misrepresented, you can ask the president to make a personal statement after the debate to correct that. but you cannot interrupt the debate which is in progress and in which mr chountis has now had to wait. i would ask you to look at the rules of procedure, ask for the personal statement and then give it. it will be noted. you have three minutes to do this, which is more than the few seconds you had now.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a mistake on the board. the next speaker is mr stolojan. just let me say goodbye. that was my last meeting as vice president. i was elected to the national parliament. i would like to thank all those who have helped me: the staff of the directorate-general of the presidency, the waiters, the interpreters for their excellent work and the technicians who normally make sure that everything runs smoothly here. i hope you'll have the same confidence in my successor as you have in me. i thank you very much and i hope that the debate will go well. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the fiscal compact was designed to reduce the debt levels in the european union and to curb new debt. if we are now talking about whether we want to integrate the fiscal pact into the european treaties, we must first look at whether the fiscal pact has worked. did it work the way it was supposed to work? has it worked that countries which have exceeded their debt ceilings time and again have had to pay sanctions, as provided for in the fiscal pact? and then we find out that this was not the case, that these countries were given time and time again, that they were blindfolded, that at the end, when the treaty absolutely required that we impose sanctions now, they said: "well, now we impose sanctions, namely sanctions of zero euros". what kind of politics is this? every car driver who exceeds the speed limit even a little bit has to pay 30, 40, 50 euros for a minor offence, and here, if entire states do not brake in time, if they exceed their debt, their new debt limit, time after time, they get a penalty of zero euros! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's certainly true. but we need not only the rule of law, we also need the reliability of the law. we need to know that government action is predictable. but if the state is always arbitrary, if the laws are so flexible that you can ignore their spirit, then the reliability of the law is not far behind.
president of the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this year marks the 40th anniversary of the european court of auditors. as the debates in this house this week have shown, the political, financial and economic framework conditions of the european union have changed considerably over the past four decades. the challenges of recent times have tested the confidence of our citizens in european and national institutions. we who work in these institutions must respond and find solutions, each within his own sphere of responsibility. in that regard, i'm pleased to inform you that i will report positively. we believe that the 2016 eu accounts present a true picture. the commission recalled that the commission did not provide any information on the number of sampled union producers in the union during the investigation period. but above all, the estimated error rate in payments to the european budget has continuously improved. around half of the european expenditure we audited in 2016 had an error rate below the 2% materiality threshold. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the measures in force. this is our first limited audit judgment since we started to submit a statement of assurance every year in 1994. it represents a significant improvement in eu financial management. in practical terms this means: the estimated overall error rate for eu expenditure in 2016 is 3,1%, compared to 3,8% in 2015 and 4,4% in 2014. so this is continuous improvement. the so-called entitlement-based payments, which are made subject to certain conditions, account for around 49% of eu expenditure and have had error rates of less than 2%, below the materiality threshold. this includes direct aid to farmers, study and research grants and staff costs, to name a few. in contrast, higher error rates were found for the so-called reimbursement-based payments, which are made to reimburse expenditure. while action taken by member states and the commission helped to reduce the estimated overall error rate, we found that there was sufficient information available to prevent, detect and correct much more errors. in our view, this means that no additional controls are necessary, but that the existing controls must be carried out properly. but let me also give you a warning: the total amount of payments to be made by the european union under future budgets reached an all-time high of eur 238.8 billion in 2016. the elimination of this backlog and the prevention of new ones should be a priority for the planning of european expenditure for the period after 2020, i.e. in the context of the next mff. it is important for our citizens to know that public funds are being spent legally. but just as important - perhaps even more important - is for people to know what they're getting for their money. did it really make sense to build a particular road or an airport in a particular location or any other infrastructure? has it really created jobs and growth? to answer these questions, we are increasingly focusing our work on the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of european spending and programmes. in many areas of the european budget, control systems designed to prevent, detect and correct errors have been improved in recent years. this also gives us an opportunity to develop the declaration of assurance with the aim of relying more on these control systems in the future for the regularity of expenditure. we will thus be able to provide parliament and the council with more and better information in the context of the examination of the european budget. ladies and gentlemen, in the decades to come we will continue to act as guardians of european finances and the interests of our citizens. we will continue to be an independent voice, pointing out areas that work well, but also speaking uncomfortable truths. in a world where misinformation and manipulation of data are becoming more and more widespread, the european court of auditors will continue to provide reliable and impartial information. together, at every stage of the legislative and budgetary cycle, let us ensure that the european union delivers efficiently on issues of importance to citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, mr lehne and mr lazarou of the european court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, the annual report and the recommendations of the european court of auditors are important bases for our further work as the european commission. i believe that this cooperation between the various bodies - the committee on budgetary control, the council and the court of auditors, and the commission on the other hand - is also bearing fruit. the fact that we have had our accounts confirmed for the tenth time in a row, that we have a continuing reduction in the error rate, and that the court of auditors' audit opinion has given us the courage to do so, shows that we are not without success. a long trial seems worthwhile, too. the european parliament can be proud of its contribution, which you are making in the context of the discharge procedure. over the years, you have made us better as the european commission through constructive and critical support. the court of auditors makes very concrete proposals to ensure that public procurement is carried out correctly, that agricultural land is measured correctly, that research grants are made in a way that reduces the bureaucratic burden on researchers and thus increases the value of our research programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we have a shared responsibility, and the administrations of the member states and their regions are often jointly or even jointly responsible for ensuring that the funds are properly used and the procedures are properly followed. the limited trial verdict is good news for us. but we are not complacent: "that's it", we want to make our work more efficient and improve it further. president lehne mentioned the backlog and the difficulties that arose from it in the 2014 and 2015 budgets. the commission has already taken into account the fact that the union's financial contribution to the union budget for the period 2014-2020 was eur 6 million. we will be making amendments in the coming days and making cuts to the current budget, but also to the 2018 budget. we must learn from this for the next period - the member states and ourselves. and perhaps a new mff should not be adopted until just before christmas last year. a year earlier would bring safety to all concerned, and the preparation and speed of the road would be better from the first year. we are happy to say that we want to learn from all the proposals of the court of auditors. and the theme of success orientation: the effectiveness and the question of the added value we will and must justify are at the forefront of all infrastructure measures, cohesion programmes, new tasks such as migration - the added value we must demonstrate at european level, as opposed to the provision and financing of tasks at national level. we want to remind the house once again of the process of reflection. we have put forward a paper for the next budgetary framework, in which we outline options and where we attach great importance to your opinion. this applies to the number of years in the next mff, to the priorities in the next mff, to the headings, and to the programming, which is crucial for the execution of the tasks and for the success of the programme. i thank the court of auditors. i believe that the basis for a good debate in the coming weeks has been laid here in the house today. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors! first of all, i would like to thank you, mr lehne, mr lazaro and the staff of the court of auditors once again for the annual report for the financial year 2016. the court's annual report, which is 322 pages long, provides detailed information on how the commission and the member states have worked with the eu budget. although it is a retrospective report, the court of auditors' report, together with the special reports of the court of auditors, which i would like to mention again at this point, provides a very good analysis of the achievement of the objectives of european programmes and projects. the reduction in the error rate, which now averages 3.1%, is encouraging and we naturally welcome this positive trend. however, looking at the error rate alone is not enough. errors often tell more about the complexity of rules than about abuse and fraud. we must therefore continue to simplify the rules governing our financial administration so that the recipients of payments can benefit from european budgetary funds even more quickly and effectively. the highest error rates continue to be found in the area of shared management. i therefore appeal to the member states and their administrations to work even more decisively to avoid errors. the commission has also found that the aid granted to the sampled exporting producers was not in line with the requirements of the union legislation on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. this may lead to a considerable overhang of payments at the not too distant end of the current support period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the current debate has limited my speaking time, so i can only give a very general account of the court of auditors' report. but in the next few weeks we shall be discussing this opulent work in detail with the commission and then we shall be able to produce a report for parliament. i would like to thank you again for your work and for your constructive cooperation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank you, mr lehne, on behalf of the european court of auditors, for the audit work you have carried out and for the detailed report. the limited positive audit opinion, the first since 1994, shows that there has been significant progress in the management of eu funds over the last few years. the error rate is below the 2% materiality threshold for around 50% of eu funds used. and even though the error rate in the area of cohesion policy is 4.8%, it is still possible to see significant improvements compared to previous years and to learn from your recommendations for the future. cohesion policy must continue to play an important role in the next multiannual financial framework in order to promote social, economic and territorial cohesion in europe. whether people live on the black sea, the atlantic or the north sea, these funds make europe visible and tangible. cohesion policy should continue to be based mainly on grants. financial instruments are more difficult to access, in particular for smaller recipients such as municipalities or smes. parliamentary control of eu finances is essential. the european citizens have a right to know how and where the money has been spent. transparency creates trust, and it is only through the trust of citizens that we can regain enthusiasm and support for europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we can be satisfied with this report from the court of auditors because it gives us hope that the work we are doing here is going to lead to something. that's why i think this is one of our better days today. what worries me is that the problems of budgetary management have become very acute in recent years. the question of the ral, the n+3 question, the question of some member states. i would therefore ask you, mr president of the court of auditors, to name the problem where it is so that we can find a specific solution. we believe that not all member states have the same problems. that means we need to know where the problem is and what we can do to help solve that problem. this is very important to us. i 'm worried . your report says that only three quarters of the authorities have been designated by the cohesion fund. if there are no authorities, how can the money be spent? why are we doing this and why are the authorities not being named, commissioner? what can we do? reporting on performance i congratulate you on the chapter. but we cannot be satisfied with the fact that 50% of the structural fund projects are only partially successful. but it would be important to know which part we are reaching and which part we are not reaching. we cannot be satisfied with the fact that one third of the projects in rural areas are not cost-effective. the table you use to represent the number of performance indicators per billion is almost satirical. the larger the programme, the lower the performance indicators, the smaller the programme, the higher the expectations. of course, it's clear that this is going to go wrong. we need to find a solution here too, of course, because this cannot continue. one challenge is financial instruments. commissioner, we cannot wait until 2020 to find out what is going on with financial instruments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the european court of auditors for its work, which has led to a steady reduction in the overall error rates for eu expenditure. the european commission has all the information to achieve the 2% materiality threshold in the future, according to the 2016 annual report. the commission must continue to be guided by this and work diligently towards it. the same applies to the european development fund. i am pleased to see an improvement in the allocation of funds compared with previous years. the european development fund is no longer the only instrument of european development cooperation. a number of trust funds have been established in recent years. the new european fund for sustainable development is also intended to complement development cooperation, so that european guarantees can generate billions of dollars of investment for africa. i welcome the establishment of these financial instruments and i believe that a more ambitious policy in this area is extremely important. however, within these complex guarantee and donor structures, it is not always easy to keep track. this does not, of course, make the audit and parliamentary control of these instruments easier or simpler and it undermines the transparency of european development efforts. we should in the long term achieve a uniform development cooperation under the umbrella of the eu budget.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. in fact, after four years of negotiations, the time has come. tomorrow we will vote on the creation of the european public prosecutor's office. the european parliament has already taken a number of important decisions on the basis of the report by mr glinne. especially if you just briefly review the much longer history. more than 20 years ago, for example, parliament called for the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office in 1996, and the commission presented a green paper on its creation in 2002, which states, inter alia: 'in order to safeguard the credibility of the european construction, the community must ensure that fraud and corruption are effectively prosecuted, including through criminal law, in its member states and for the benefit of european taxpayers.' this is precisely what we are talking about: crimes against the eu's financial interests, such as subsidy fraud or crossborder vat fraud, are not trivial! the annual damage is in the billions, but we all pay the bill as european taxpayers. it is high time to act. parliament can only say yes and no to the text negotiated, but the member states have not received a blank cheque from us. we have closely followed the negotiation process and made it clear that the european public prosecutor's office must be able to act independently, it must have efficient structures and the procedural rights of the accused must be guaranteed at all times. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we want european taxpayers' money to be more effectively protected in the future. however, it is deeply regrettable that the european public prosecutor's office is only being created within the framework of enhanced cooperation and that, for the time being, only 20 states are involved. this is undoubtedly weakening european added value. i think that the governments of hungary and poland in particular do not want the public prosecutor's office. hungary receives the most eu funding per capita, poland receives the most of all, with 86 billion in 2014-2020. we will therefore continue to advocate the participation of all member states in order to make this european community project a reality.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are witnessing a historic moment here tonight: we are having the final debate on the creation of the european public prosecutor's office some eight years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this is a truly historic moment, and i think we should cherish it. i am all the more disappointed that once again the council is not present and that the member states are not really appreciating this progress and are not really bringing it to life. i hope that this will change, and i also hope that the 20 member states that have committed to the european public prosecutor can persuade the remaining member states to join this instrument. it is important for the citizens of the european union, for the eu budget. we lose several hundred million euros every year in these areas of crime when it comes to the crimes against the eu budget. some bills go even further. we have heard this, for example, from the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering: it could be several trillion euros. the damage is enormous, and it is all the more important that we now make real use of this instrument, that it is brought to life, that the member states participate in it and that they use it as a model for proper cooperation in police and judicial matters. this is precisely the priority we must give ourselves when it comes to promoting effective law enforcement in the european union. it is not worth calling for new investigative measures or any kind of database if the staff and infrastructure for proper police and judicial cooperation in the european union are not finally provided. we can only tackle these tasks together, and the european public prosecutor is a great example and an important step towards this. in this respect, we greens are also in full support of this proposal. we will vote in favour of the creation of the european public prosecutor's office and we also believe that the proposals recently put forward to extend the powers in future to include, for example, terrorist offences, must be discussed, that this is a correct proposal. we as the european parliament should stick to that and of course continue to set high standards of procedure. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i listened carefully to your speech, which struck me as very optimistic. i admit i'm not that optimistic. let me ask you a question. do you think that until other states eventually join this new institution, until they join the european public prosecutor, as you said, that this new office should cooperate with the judicial authorities of those member states that do not want a european public prosecutor? should there be such cooperation?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! in any case, close cooperation should be agreed between the states which are now setting up the european public prosecutor's office and those which are not yet in the process of doing so, but will join as soon as possible. it is a matter of the european parliament's responsibility to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council. we have the eurojust regulation on the table. i am absolutely in favour of establishing a very close cooperation there. but it is not as if the same advantages will be enjoyed within eurojust. they will only be able to combat this crime effectively if they are also part of this instrument.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. so some colleagues should really be banned from speaking here because they should not be speaking at all because of their lack of expertise. the european public prosecutor is a milestone in the history of european justice because it is the only institution at european level which can decide for itself which cases it will investigate. for all others, the member state must request that an investigation be carried out. and we now have member states where we can have considerable doubts whether all crimes are really being investigated, especially crimes from which member states themselves profit. we can just - and that's the problem, and please take note of it, instead of talking so stupidly out, sorry - no longer rely on the judicial authorities to really work the way they should work. that's our problem, and the e.u.s.a. is helping us with it. commissioner, i would like to congratulate you. today is a big day. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it was a pain, but it's important. i would like to say that, thanks to your persistence, commissioner, this story is now coming to a fairly good end. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new regulation on the european union's criminal law system. we have considerable shortcomings in the organization, in the design, and these shortcomings will keep us very busy. i would like us to do what mr michel said: no more european money for all those who do not participate in the eusta. that must be the outcome of the next mff negotiations. it's the only way! we must force countries whose judicial systems we have to question into the european system. if we want money, we must also ensure that financial crimes are prosecuted in case of doubt. i would like to tell you that we are going to have difficult days ahead with the eppo, eurojust and europol. we must ensure that we have a good interaction between these new authorities, including olaf, which is of course not comparable to the eppo in terms of its powers. we have to make sure things work. we also need to ensure that the eppo is not overburdened with tasks. so be careful when you ask for the extension of new competences. i don't think much of it. let's get the organization working first.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, neither interpol nor the prosecutor's office - this must be said clearly - can make themselves the butt of dictators. article 3 of the interpol statute explicitly prohibits the abuse of police search for political-military-religious and racist purposes and thus arrests, as happened in the case of the writer doğan akhanlı. we therefore demand that interpol not only simply comply with the law, but also that all databases on red notices be checked to prevent further abuse. we call in particular on the spanish authorities to finally change their practice and not to comply with politically motivated arrest requests, as all other eu member states do - only spain does not. not only does akhanlı's example show that there is something wrong with interpol, but whether the new chief, the only deputy head of internal security in china, is actually giving hope for improvement is up in the air, because china is known to want to use exactly such arrests to arrest dissidents and refugees. once again, interpol must strictly observe the principle of independence and neutrality, and we should do our utmost to ensure that this is the case.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this interesting debate. interpol red notices are a useful tool to seek the arrest of suspects and serious offenders. it is first and foremost for interpol and its member countries to address weaknesses in the system. it is for eu member states to assess what action they take when they encounter a red notice and to carefully consider such notices in light of their originating country. let me assure you that the commission has followed and continues to follow this issue very closely. the commission monitors in particular compliance by member states with the principle of non-refoulement enshrined in eu law. this is to make sure that refugees are not returned if there is a risk of persecution.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers, in particular mr moraes for the very pertinent questions about the situation. indeed, we are in the situation where the eu member states are members of another international organisation where there is no clear agreed common eu line or policy. at the recent meeting of the political security committee and the committee on operational cooperation on internal security (cosi), ideas were floated to address this situation. there were those who emphasised a need for a common approach, a need to share best practices. the estonian presidency invited all member states to provide their ideas and to take this discussion further, even before the 20 november meeting with interpol, to give ammunition to the presidency at this meeting. we are committed to keeping this important topic on the agenda and we will of course ask interpol about its plans on how to improve the review of the notices – because that is one of the main issues, the way that interpol a priori reviews those red notices – and we may also expect requests by interpol to provide more resources for them to do so. so the topic is on the agenda and discussions will be taken further.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on road safety in europe by mr tomáš zdechovský, mrs roberta metsola and mr michał boni, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o000060/2017 b8-0601/2017) (2017/2875(rsp)).
mr. chairman, that was a very interesting debate. i, when i'm confronted in my country with transportation experts, they all talk about safe parking zones. i think this is a very important issue that the eu should address, because if these parking zones are to be distributed in a certain way across europe, then this needs to be coordinated by the eu. i thank you, commissioner, for the relatively large attention you have paid to this subject in your speech, but i think that europe will need to play a much greater role in the future. we may not be able to solve truck driver violence, but it will always be a matter for the individual nation states. but in terms of overall improvement of the safety of truck transport across the european continent and in terms of ensuring a certain status for individual, say, truck drivers, we can play our part. and those parking spaces are, in my opinion, extremely important.
before i give the floor to commissioner jourová, i should like to say that we have had a very wide debate, from refugees to sabotage. i do not want to minimize any of these issues, but i would like to thank all the speakers who have referred to the heart of the question in their contributions. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the house very much for this important and interesting discussion. as i said at the beginning of this debate, for the commission it is of the utmost importance that the road transport sector can function well and that the safety and security of drivers is ensured. the road freight sector is facing a complex range of threats which continue to cause increased costs and delays, affecting the competitiveness and viability of the many small and medium—sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the sector. the commission is working hard to find solutions to mitigate these security issues through a mix of interventions which include funding and the development of best practice guidance and tools to help the sector to improve its overall security. this is in addition to actions that member states and regional governments themselves must take to better secure their roads. there is no single magic solution that will solve all of these problems overnight, so the focus of the commission will remain on working with our partners to collectively improve the security of europe’s roads in the long term.
the debate is closed.
i thank all the members who have followed this debate to the end. i also thank the services. i wish you all a safe journey home and a blessed night's rest. (the sitting was closed at 9.48 p.m.)
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you very much for supporting this resolution. it's very important. the united nations human rights office has just adopted a report in september, which reports on the most serious human rights violations in the occupied territory of the autonomous republic of crimea and the city of sevastopol. the united nations human rights office explains how crimean tatars, journalists, bloggers and anyone who expresses criticism of the occupation of crimea or putin's policies in crimea can be arrested and imprisoned. there are reports of people disappearing, people being terrorized by the intelligence services, and in detention, people being psychiatrically treated and tortured. the most important thing in this resolution that we are adopting today is that those who disappear in the camps and prisons of putin are given names, that these people turn up. i also think it is very important that our foreign service, our embassy and also the council of europe and the united nations put more pressure on the situation in crimea to be monitored by international delegations. it cannot be that as under stalin again people from crimea in the camps today not stalin's, but putin's disappear and we can do nothing in this situation, although russia is in principle a member of the council of europe. we should support the ukrainians' demand that the united nations general assembly, following the report i referred to at the beginning, address these problems explicitly. otherwise, we must ensure that the sanctions imposed because of the occupation of crimea are upheld, that we, like the united nations, continue to maintain that crimea is occupied territory. we should punish those entrepreneurs who break these sanctions with the kerch bridge or in the energy sector.
a writer. the commission is not i am very pleased that we have today a broad consensus of five political groups on this matter and that we are making it clear that we all continue to regard the occupation of crimea as an illegal act, contrary to international law, and that we are not only concerned in the abstract with territories but very concretely with people who are suffering under this occupation. it is correct that we mention the tatar leaders by name: ahtem çiygoz, i̇lmi ümerov and the journalist mykola semena. they and their families and russia should know that these people are not forgotten. that is why we have included in the list of those mentioned the other political prisoners arrested and sentenced by the russian authorities in crimea. we demand their immediate release, because they are in fact political prisoners and have committed nothing but the fact that they have fought for the independence of their homeland and the annexation of crimea. we should continue to remember these brave people by name and to give them political and moral support. i think that's our job here.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the european action plan for the social economy, tabled by mr jens nilsson, mr ramón luis valcárcel siso, mrs beatriz becerra basterrechea, ms marie-christine vergiat, mr sven giegold, ms elena gentile, ms agnes jongerius, mr brando benifei, ms clara eugenia aguilera garcía, mr ernest urtasun, mr evelyn regner, mr pina picierno, mr izaskun bilbao barandica, mr jan keller, mr jean lambert, mr jean-paul denanot, mr maite pagaurtzaund ruizúa, mr nessa childers, mr nicola danti, mr patrizia toia, mr ramón jáuregui atondo, mr renata briano, mr sergio gaetano cofferati, mr sergio gutiérrez, mr guilla balas, mr simona simfè, mr bonafoli, mr nicolao zidano, mr ulrico olvera, mr jano gutinski, mr elena urtasun, mr evelyn regner, mr pina picierno, mr izaskun bilbao barandica, mr jan keller, mr jean lambert, mr jean lambert, mr jean-paul denan, mr giuliano, mr mario, mr mario ruiz, mr mario, mr giorgio, mr mario ruiz, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr giorgio, mr
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we are going to discuss cases of sexual harassment, and, as you have surely seen, we also have reports about cases of sexual harassment happening inside the european institutions, including inside parliament. so it is really important that we have a debate about it, but it is not enough just to talk about it. we should also put in writing what we are going to do about it – we as the european union and as the european institutions – so that we commit ourselves to changing this horrible situation. we cannot and will not accept such harassment in this parliament or elsewhere in the european union. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mrs keller has rightly pointed out that in recent days we have had media reports that there have been incidents in the house as well. i would therefore ask the bureau of parliament to look into this matter. the operations must be clarified immediately and whether there are any points to this. we have internal structures and we cannot tolerate sexual abuse of any kind in parliament. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to ask that we postpone this vote because the european court of justice decided in july that the passenger data agreement with canada cannot be concluded, and one of the main reasons was illegal data retention. the court made clear that data about european travellers cannot, in general, be retained for years by canadian authorities. but now, with the entry/exit system, we would actually retain for years the personal data of canadians coming to europe – i.e. we would be doing exactly the same to our counterparts, and i really do not see how we could explain that to our canadian partners. therefore, we have requested an independent legal analysis of the implications of the court decision, which we will publish tomorrow. that study says clearly that the entry/exit system poses serious problems because the data retention periods are far too long and not justifiable, and because rules on access by law-enforcement agencies are not specific enough – and i think that we as parliament should not adopt eu legislation that will likely be struck down again by the court. at the very least, we would ask for help to postpone the vote until we can have more legal expertise on the matter and study it carefully. therefore, we propose to postpone the vote.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think one of the objectives was quite clear: we should have a uniform regulation in europe. we're getting closer to the goal. but let me say a few words about cadmium. i am surprised at the debate by some colleagues on the other side. now we compare ourselves - they are not there anymore - with the usa and australia and say they have higher values - so that would be a competitive disadvantage for europe. if you did that for a lot of other things, we'd be way behind in our consumer and environmental standards. that is why europe must be a trendsetter. you have to be ahead of what's possible. and what the environmental committee has proposed for cadmium is just one possibility. everything that's in the soil will eventually be in the food. anything we can avoid, we must avoid now. so it's a precautionary measure that may cost money - no question - but it has to be done in the long term to protect the environment. we want more natural fertilisers, and that has to take precedence over chemical mineral fertilisers. that's very clear. we also support this objective. but these funds must also be clean. let me address a few points which we do not think are really well resolved. one is that the fertilisers regulation must not in any case lead to higher nitrate inputs being allowed through manure. there is a danger that the nitrates directive will be weakened by the fertilisers regulation. the definition of animal manure in the nitrates directive should not be affected by the fertilizers regulation. it is clear that excessive nutrient intake leads to environmental and health damage. the commission has also proposed that the use of fertilisers in agriculture be restricted to certain areas of the community. one area of concern is reach. the fertilizers regulation should not be used to circumvent the reach regulation. chemical substances which may be harmful to human health or the environment must therefore not be used in fertilisers. the proposal for a regulation on fertilisers contains a number of amendments which would allow the use of fertilisers authorised without proper risk management. we are also concerned that bio-stimulants not only use natural substances but may also create a circumvention situation and use pesticides. i would like to make one particular point: plastic films as mulch films, which are then to rot in the field. i can only warn you. that's going to help us have more plastic in the soil and in the water.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, a few words about the procedure: i must confess to you that i was an enthusiastic supporter of the procedure at the beginning, that the committees should have separate responsibilities. i must say that in the end, as i am looking at this dossier, it would have been better if we had had a committee in charge, because the committee in charge might have made it easier to reach a compromise. and i must say that i am very shy in my criticism of the environment committee, which has taken a decision, but the keywords jobs, geological conditions, the safety of raw materials, practicality have been of marginal interest to the environment committee. and that's what we're sick of, that's what this discussion is about. two examples. the first example: if you look at the proposals, they are all in favour of defining and limiting the cadmium content, and we also need european regulation. that's right, you're right. we're basically arguing about 40 milligrams. that's the difference. if you do the math, if you really want to improve the quality of the soil with this difference, it's going to take several hundred years. that would be like trying to change the protein content of an egg with a salt shaker in your breakfast egg. because nothing happens there. so i ask a little bit for objectivity and to look at: what is the effect really? the second example: in central germany, in my region, we have limestone deposits. nobody changed it, it was god's design, it was put there. lime is a soil conditioner. so lime is used to improve the solubility of nutrients, but the pollutants stay in the soil. we've been doing this since the beginning of time, of course. the scheme proposed by the commission, supported by the environment committee, would mean that we would have to close the lime mines around the corner and then have to transport our lime from a great distance. that is nonsense in itself, and that is why i ask that the compromise amendments be taken up again in the vote tomorrow. whether 80 or 60 milligrams - that would be a good compromise in the interests of raw material security and in the interests of our farmers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu youth strategy: what great speeches we heard on sunday. unfortunately, the reality is different. this was what europe had promised: the youth guarantee ensures that all young people without work are offered a job or a traineeship within four months. we are investing a total of 6.5 billion euros. if we were a company, not a parliament, many of us would be in the position of resigning. the european court of auditors has said, and i quote: in the eu, four million young people were unemployed in mid-2016. policy makers should ensure that expectations are not created that cannot be met. as a father of seven, i always like to remind you of the eighth commandment: you shall not lie. my wish: if we are honest with the people, then the credibility of our politics will also increase! europe can do a lot, but it cannot solve everything. maybe we can even achieve more by promising less.
president of the european council. – mr president, as you know, i am obsessed by unity. this obsession was with me during the last european council, but in fact it has been with me since the first days of my work in brussels. this is why i rejected the idea of removing greece from the eurozone in 2015. and it is also why i pursued a common position of the eu vis-à-vis russia during the conflict in ukraine. for many months i was building agreement among the 27 in order to give prime minister cameron arguments to stay in the eu, even though this meant that each of the 27 had to make a sacrifice. unfortunately, this was not enough for the brits. after brexit, i worked towards creating unity of the 27 in the negotiations with the united kingdom. we have shown also during the last european council that no one can divide the 27 in these negotiations. striving for unity is also the main reason for creating the leaders’ agenda. last friday, all the leaders agreed that the priority for them is unity among the 27. this was voiced in unison. on this most important issue to me, we reached full understanding right from the start. the leaders’ agenda invalidated a dangerous assumption that together we can only stand still, and that we can only move forward when we divide. it is about reconciling dynamism and unity. about being ambitious and staying together at the same time. this, of course, does not rule out enhanced cooperation as the last resort, open to all, and in accordance with the treaties. my intention is to build on what connects, not on what divides. but it does not mean that we should not stand up with courage to the issues that are – or could be – divisive so that we can find common solutions to them. i will just mention migration, the emu and brexit. when it comes to the migration crisis, i appealed from the very beginning to build europe’s response on what connects us: on the protection of our external borders. i did so being aware that there are also ideas that put member states in a permanent conflict. one such question is relocation: precisely speaking, the mandatory quotas. on this issue, consensus is as unlikely today as it was many months ago. but i do see a real chance of full agreement by june on matters like protecting external borders; decisive support for front—line countries (italy, greece, spain and bulgaria); strategy vis-à-vis africa and adequate support for international organisations helping refugees and migrants – unhcr, iom and the world food programme; european management over return and readmission policy; and most of the elements of the dublin reform. if on these matters we are really effective, we will be close to a lasting solution to the migration crisis. as regards emu reform, following the publication of the five presidents’ report no one should have any doubts what we need to do: everything is crystal clear. the problem is member states’ conflicting interests. one of the first effects of the leaders’ agenda is the agreement to find potential solutions in the nearest possible future, despite these differences. i will do everything in my power to take the first very concrete steps by june towards establishing the european monetary fund and strengthening the stability of the banking union. i still believe that this is possible. in june it will become clear if i am an incurable optimist. but one thing i can promise you today: if we do not reach agreement by june, i will say precisely why it was not possible, and who is responsible.as for the brexit negotiations, we have managed to build and maintain unity among the 27, but ahead of us is still the toughest stress test. if we fail it, the negotiations will end in our defeat. we must keep our unity, regardless of the direction of the talks. the eu will be able to rise to every scenario as long as we are not divided. it is in fact up to london how this will end: with a good deal, no deal or no brexit. but in each of these scenarios we will protect our common interest only by being together. we continue to look for the best way towards a europe that is united, solidary and sovereign. our quest must be accompanied by a constant and profound reflection on the essence of our community. i would like to say a few words on three of its dimensions. first of all, we are a territorial community, which means that we have a common territory and common external borders. our duty is to protect them. the migration crisis has made us aware, with full force, of the need to rebuild effective control of our external borders, while the aggressive behaviour of certain third countries, and the destabilisation around europe, has made us aware of the need to defend our territory. for this reason, we want to launch permanent structured cooperation on defence, the so-called pesco, by the end of this year. in order to protect our external borders, we must build a model of durable and efficient financing on a bigger scale than ever before. it should become a part of our discussions on the future mff. secondly, we are a cultural community, which does not mean that we are better or worse – we are simply different from the outside world. our openness and tolerance cannot mean walking away from protecting our heritage. we have the right and obligation to care for what distinguishes us from other cultures – not in order to be against someone, but to be ourselves. without a feeling of superiority, but with a feeling of justified pride. i remember a great hashtag by one of your leaders, which said: ‘i am european and i am proud’. this is why the first point on the leaders’ agenda for our meeting in gothenburg in november is culture and education. thirdly, we are a political community. it is high time we renewed our vows in the name of our political values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on the european union. let me quote: ‘the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities.’ these values are common to the member states in a society in which pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between women and men prevail. i would like to remind all those in power, all the member states, that by signing the treaty you have also signed this article. so either you respect it, or you clearly say you reject it, with all the consequences of this fact. finally, i would like to refer to an issue it would be hard to avoid, being here in strasbourg: the future composition of the european parliament. for this topic, i have planned a special european council in february next year. as you know, we must deal with this matter because of brexit and because of the changing demography. i take all the proposals that have surfaced in this debate seriously; they are all interesting and pro-european ideas. i, personally, believe that the most natural solution would be to adopt a simple rule: fewer countries, fewer mandates. it is not only pragmatic and logical, but also what is expected by public opinion. of course, such a solution in no way invalidates the idea of transnational lists. i am aware that this will be our common decision, since parliament will be proposing and co-deciding on this matter. this is why i would like you to take such a possibility into account. when i was here in march this year, you may remember that i recalled a proverb: ‘if you want to go fast, go alone. if you want to go far, go together’. today i feel we have a real chance to go together, far and faster. (applause)
president of the commission. mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, i will be brief because, apart from a few minor nuances, i fully share the views expressed by president tusk and i do not want to paraphrase what he has just said, as i largely agree. i would first like to recall, in a spirit of solidarity, the tragedy that portugal and spain have just experienced. these terrible fires have shocked us all, challenged us. the same was true of the torrential rains that struck the three baltic states a few months ago. solidarity is a key virtue of our union, and when any of us is faced with difficulties, it is obvious, necessary, basic, that the european union comes to the aid of those who suffer. that is why i have instructed commissioner stylianides to think within a month - in fact, before the end of the year - about reshaping, rearranging our civil protection mechanisms, which are not working at 100 per cent. it is not normal that when a fire breaks out in portugal on a sunday morning, we have to wait until wednesday evening for the first european plane to arrive to help. we need to speed up the process. in the meantime, we will trigger all the european solidarity fund mechanisms for portugal, spain and the three baltic countries, after checking whether they are applicable. i will not elaborate on the proposals the commission has made on migration policy and the digital internal market. all the proposals that the commission has drawn up are on the table of parliament and the council and i would like to invite you to speed up the work, particularly as regards the common asylum system. we are wasting time and it is urgent that we agree on all these proposals. i would like to pay tribute to the libe committee of your parliament, which took the right decisions a week ago, and i congratulate you on that. we talked about africa. we are always talking about africa, and i invite the members of the council, that is to say the member states, at regular intervals to act in accordance with their words. we set up an emergency trust fund for africa, with €1.8 billion, in the hope - i must say now naively - that member states would make exactly the same effort. they did not, and as a result the commission had to increase its contribution to 2.9 billion, to be financed from the european budget. member states have so far made a considerable effort to make €175 million available to this fund. this is outrageous. it is unacceptable to talk about africa with tears in our eyes, and not do what we have committed to. (applause) i would like to thank as regards digital europe, the commission has proposed 43 initiatives, 24 of which are legislative in nature. to date, the council and parliament have adopted six directives. it's not, to be honest, ultra-impressive and so it's going to take -- since everyone's talking about digital -- to make things go forward. the same applies to all broadband and fixed networks. we would like to speed up the work on 5g so that by 2020 we can make spectrum bands available to economic operators. these decisions must be taken as soon as possible. of course, we have discussed trade policy among ourselves, at the initiative of some of us, including president macron. i reminded the members of the european council that the commission still believes that it is necessary and urgent to conclude trade agreements with the mercosur countries. it is a vast economic entity. it will be the largest trade agreement the european union has concluded to date. but we insist on the need to put in place reciprocity mechanisms, which will prove to europeans and others who observe us that europe is open, but that europe is not on offer, and therefore we must put more emphasis on the elements that reflect the will to put in place reciprocal regimes. mr president, my very sincere congratulations to you, ladies and gentlemen! in a few weeks we shall meet in gothenburg, one among others and particularly about social policy to redeem. in november 2017 we made something, was we had made in november 1997. the first employment summit of the european union was held in november 1997. i'm probably the only one who remembers that, because i'm in the chair. in the conclusions it is stated that once a year a sondergipfel zu fragen der beschäftigungspolitik soll stattfinden. er findet jetzt 2017 20 jahre später statt. i'm not sure what to do with this. i can only wonder about the importance of social policy. but it is good that this summit is taking place, and we must ensure that the social dimension of europe does not remain a mere phrase, but that we also fill in the social intentions that exist with content. (beifall) in the sense that i am happy, satisfied, and happy that yesterday in the council was a success, today in the council's decision-making is a success. not everything is perfect in the founding of the compromiss, but that it is possible at all war also with the help of the european parliament, also on the pressure of the european parliament , in sachen entsenderichtlinie zu fortschritten zu kommen worthy of praise and approval. the fact that the social ministers have also been able to establish their own content, substance and form on the european social pillar, as proposed by the commission, is also good news. in the field of economic and monetary union, the commission will present its final proposals on 6 december. we are in preparation for the december summit in the house yesterday on the commission's proposals on economic and monetary union. today the commission is adopting its work programme for the coming year. this work programme is intended to ensure that europe becomes more united, stronger and more democratic. mr timmermans will, if i am correctly informed, present the programme of the european commission to you this afternoon. what should i say about brexit? i would like to say that the commission is not negotiating in a hostile mood. we want a deal. those who don't want a deal, the 'no dealers', have no friends in the commission. we want a fair deal with britain and we will have a fair deal with britain. no deal is not our working assumption.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first of all, the european council discussed the right priorities. first, about brexit. we have unity, thanks to the engagement of all the leading figures and personalities. we underlined that there is not sufficient progress. we clarified that there is no cherry-picking possible. you are preparing a scenario for leaving without an agreement. i think that is a good step, and the business community – that is what we see from the london side – is getting more and more nervous, and the brexiteers have no common plan for the future of their country, and especially the relationship towards the european union. that is the outcome, and i look to what happens in the council and we look to what happens in london. one thing is, additionally, clear for us as the european people’s party (epp): if we are discussing about the treaty, the contents of which will, finally, be asked for in this house, then we are ready for a kind of a transitional period. but i have now to clarify that we cannot accept that a country outside the european union will have the same conditions and the same status as a country inside the european union, so there must be a difference. that is brexit. the second thing is about innovation. i thank donald tusk for this priority : that is our future, it is needed. combine resources, strengthen our budget: that is what we need, and we need clear projects. one of these projects is defence union – this was also a discussion. the epp is strongly in favour. we have a momentum on the table to go forward with our defence union. one aspect is important for us. on the one hand, that we discuss about funds, about better financing of our defence structure, but i think towards the people we also need visibility about what we are doing there. i can give you one concrete example which we are discussing in the epp group. there is a new threat about cybersecurity which is on the table. we think that small/medium countries and even the bigger countries in the european union cannot defend themselves alone anymore in this globalised cyberworld. that means for us: let’s combine our forces, let’s really establish a european cyber-defence brigade where we have this at european level, and let’s make it visible with officials and soldiers who have on their uniforms the european flag, to make people aware that europe together can defend our cyber infrastructure. ein anderer punkt war die diskussion über die türkei. wir begrüßen als evp-fraktion die kürzung der beitrittshilfen. wir müssen gezielt deutlich machen, dass uns die entwicklung in der türkei beunruhigt und besorgt. wir werden das im europäischen parlament beim budget diese woche auch tun: die beitrittshilfen kürzen. insofern gehen wir doch hand in hand in die gleiche richtung. und natürlich müssen wir über einen gezielten mitteleinsatz reden. deswegen: ein bekenntnis zu den mitteln für die flüchtlinge ist auch notwendig. wir brauchen aber auch mehr klarheit in den beziehungen zur türkei. und da muss uns bewusst sein, dass wir eine partnerschaft brauchen, aber die vollmitgliedschaft kann kein weiteres ziel sein, so wie es dieses plenum mehrfach zum ausdruck gebracht hat. ich war überrascht, dass der türkische staatspräsident vor kurzem in warschau war und dort die polnische regierung, die sich ja so damit profiliert, gegen den zuzug von moslems aufzutreten, und stark gegen islam und den zuzug von moslems polemisiert, der meinung war, dass die türkei aber vollmitglied der europäischen union werden muss. das hat ja zur konsequenz, dass dann 80 millionen türkische staatsbürger die freizügigkeit in der europäischen union bekommen – das heißt, sie dürfen sich frei ihren wohnort in ganz europa aussuchen. aus meiner sicht passt das nur schwer zusammen. das darf man schon ansprechen. liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, wir haben die prioritäten auf dem tisch liegen. aber wir alle wissen, dass wir zu langsam sind im umsetzen – das wurde besprochen. ich möchte nur einen punkt herausgreifen. neben dem afrikathema, das jean-claude juncker dankenswerterweise sehr deutlich angesprochen hat, möchte ich einen zweiten punkt herausgreifen. wir haben bei uns nachzählen lassen: es ist mittlerweile in der zwanzigsten beschlussfassung des europäischen rates fixiert worden – zum zwanzigsten mal! –, dass man einen engeren und stärkeren europäischen grenzschutz aufbauen will. zum zwanzigsten mal ist das beschlossen worden! und was haben wir erreicht? 1 500 beamte! ich habe das mal umrechnen lassen: wenn man eine solche distanz an der grenze von straßburg in frankreich nach brüssel hätte, dann würde alle 33 kilometer ein beamter stehen. alle 33 kilometer würde ein grenzschutzbeamter stehen, mit dem, was wir heute aufgebaut haben. und deswegen: es wird geredet, aber leider gottes viel zu wenig gehandelt. deswegen müssen wir die nächsten monate nutzen, so wie unser kommissionspräsident uns zu recht ermutigt, jetzt zu liefern, jetzt antworten zu geben. und, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, wir haben ein momentum auf dem tisch liegen, dass die menschen in europa sehen – auch die umfragezahlen zeigen, dass die menschen das sehen –, wie wertvoll diese gemeinschaft ist. die katalanen und auch die briten zeigen uns, dass es ein risiko ist, diese europäische union in frage zu stellen. deswegen müssen wir dieses positive momentum zur weiterentwicklung europas jetzt nutzen. und weil heute – das darf ich so sagen – auch der deutsche bundestag seine konstituierung durchführt, möchte ich auch richtung berlin appellieren, dass die neue bundesregierung in berlin diesen positiven mut aufnimmt, dieses positive momentum aufnimmt, dass europa in eine gute zukunft geht. (beifall)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the the last summit took place in an environment within the european union which has made it clear that the hasty assessments made a few weeks ago that we were out of the crisis were not true. we have since had the elections in germany, we have had the elections in austria, in the czech republic, we have the crisis in spain with regard to catalonia. all of this shows that there is still a lot of movement, that there is a lot of things brewing and that we have to face this together. the council has already made it clear that it will not be able to do so until the council has taken a decision on the matter. you reminded the heads of government of their own political responsibility and - as i understand it - you also made it clear that you are concerned that responsibility cannot be postponed indefinitely, that important decisions to be taken in the council do not disappear into nirvana, according to the motto: lost in translation, or never reappear in the bermuda triangle of the council. you hope that the decision notes you have submitted will enable us to identify in a very short time where agreement is possible and, where agreement is not possible in your view, you propose that we then start with enhanced cooperation. for me, this raises the following questions: does this mean that you have taken elements out of the proposals that the commission put forward in the spring on the five scenarios and are already implementing them without there having been a real broad debate with the citizens of the european union in the member states? mr verhofstadt and others have also pointed out contradictions in the whole structure of democratic decisionmaking within the european union. i would therefore also like to know whether the approval of the leaders' agenda means that there is a departure from the failed intergovernmental method that was once enforced by chancellor merkel and on the basis of which, for example, the fiscal compact was enforced - bypassing the european parliament - but which obliges the commission to enforce these intergovernmental agreements? does the commitment to political responsibility of the heads of state or government in the council mean that the powers of bodies which are not democratically legitimised, such as the eurogroup meeting of finance ministers, are being restricted, that they are being reduced to the necessary level, and that it is no longer possible in future for this body, which also feels no obligation to parliament, to be able to impose orders of magnitude on member states and to have a significant impact on the lives of people, citizens and citizens? is there any discussion within the council about who will be the chef and who the waiter? or is it still possible for the finance minister to tell her prime minister what to do and what to think? what ideas did the members of the council have about how cooperation with the european parliament and also with the national parliaments will be in practice in the future during the very short debate period they have mentioned and are proposing? how are we getting involved? what are the implications, including possibly for interinstitutional cooperation? it's not easy to say, "we're doing this now, we're done". that's not going to work from where i'm sitting. the debate on the social pillar, which you mentioned, has also shown that there is a need for clarification. the council has received a proposal from us, the commission has submitted a proposal. but then we have months of discussions about how parliament is to be involved again in the final decision on whether to sign. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. brexit, just for a second. my group is proposing two things: we would like to see the council define in concrete terms what the criteria are between last week's council meeting and the council meeting in december, so that it can then be said that sufficient progress has been made. what do you measure it by? or is this more or less a political negotiating table and we'll see where it takes us? we hold two things in common: we do not want the people of the united kingdom or any other member state of the european union to be punished for the non-existence of a treaty, for a no-deal. but we want a deal that ensures that the rights of citizens and the rights of citizens in northern ireland are finally enforced and that includes, of course, a reasonable financial settlement. one more comment on the migration crisis. i understand that by june, you're assuming that you're going to assess getting ahead on certain elements of the work on the migration crisis, reaching a certain agreement. but what i miss is a very clear message: an end to support for the libyan coastguard as long as it respects non-humanitarian obligations and blocks international maritime rescue and law of the sea, no criminalization of flight and no criminalization of international, private maritime rescue operations.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on this subject. it is also becoming clear to the executive and the council that the only way to achieve european progress and to combat anti-democratic populism is to make progress in certain areas - progress which our citizens also understand as greater security. a decent african policy is a security policy; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social dimension, which is a matter of principle. this is particularly true of the progress made in security and defence policy. and what we're doing with pesco, it's just a lame start, but we should move forward here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i think that we need to make that clearer. but let me make a few remarks on brexit. i would like to thank the council, but especially the commission and michel barnier, for maintaining the mandate and for showing a clear line. if the tories are having difficulty, particularly on financial commitments, in reaching a negotiable agreement, then that is no reason for us to abandon this clear negotiating mandate in the interests of the european citizens. i think we want to have constructive negotiations. we want to have a decent result, we want to have good relations in the future to keep the damage of brexit as small as possible. but the commitments that one has, mr kamall, to use them as a trade-off for better trade relations, that seems to me to be a somewhat strange starting point. we agreed on the sequences. i think that for this reason we should move now so that we can reach a decision in december to start the second phase. i am not quite sure, mr kamall, who is playing the role of robin hood in this matter. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr coburn. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the second point is, if you have debt, you have to pay debt. that's the policy of an honest merchant. you've placed orders with us, you'll have to co-finance those orders. that is a normal way of dealing with things, and i think you should acknowledge that. the european union is not a golf club that you can just leave and then get your money back. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then we're ready to negotiate fairly.
madam president, i would like to remind the house that i was against brexit. mr brok, you mentioned the term ‘golf club’. let me also remind you that the european union was, from the viewpoint of the british, once a football club. if the management of the club changes the football club to a golf club, then i wonder who has really left whom. i think it is time that we also criticised the negotiation strategy of the commission and the council. it is illogical, it is dangerous, and i think it is unfair. it is illogical because the eu insists on a financial offer by the british government before any agreement on trade. i just wonder, mr juncker, would you ever agree on a price for something when you do not know what you are buying. it is dangerous because everybody here agrees that peace in ireland must be preserved at all costs. nowhere in the world is there a border arrangement without a trade or customs arrangement. how will you ever get such an agreement without negotiations on trade? finally, it is grossly unfair. mr tusk, you have mentioned european values many times. let me remind you of the fact that democracy, freedom of the press and human rights are not european values; they are universal values. i would also like to remind you that we have british values, one of which is fairness, and it is about time that you recognise fairness as a european value. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr henkel, i don't want to know who's negotiating here. but every stage of the european union's development - from the single act, which mrs thatcher pushed through, to maastricht, nice, amsterdam and the treaty of lisbon - has been ratified by a qualified majority in the house of commons. so you can't say it was forced on them. they have negotiated it and they have decided it in their people's representation. don't tell stories like that about the old days.
blue-card answer. – the british entered the european union under three conditions: subsidiarity, self—responsibility for a country’s debts and competition. you can find all three factors in the lisbon treaty. in the course of various attempts to save the euro, these three principles have been grossly violated, and that led to a continuous centralisation and bureaucratisation of the european union, and that finally contributed to brexit.
i have to say, madam president, flight and migration are among the great challenges of our time - and for us too. this parliament has agreed, after difficult negotiations, to reform the dublin system: more shared responsibility, not leaving the countries with external borders alone. but there is no council position. the impression is that too many people are giving in to the loud cries of populists and extremists. publicly visible: the blockade, the fences, the turkey deal, the agreement with libya, the demands on the transit countries. with regard to poverty migration, we need to work with the countries of origin to get them to take back their citizens and to get fewer people to leave their countries in search of a future. i agree with the council. we must find new solutions in dialogue with these countries in the areas of development, trade, visas and other areas. the council could perhaps make some concrete proposals. so let's shape our future for ourselves and for our neighbors.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i spent hours wondering who you meant when you put forward a leaders' agenda: parliament or the top of the commission - until i found out that you meant those who sit in the last carriage of our european train and have to be dragged along all the time. i also agree with those who say that it is not enough to always scold the council. that is why i am also calling on us in parliament to hold domestic policy discussions at home in order to convince our governments in berlin, budapest and who knows where else that they are going to follow this path with us. we cannot rely on it to be enough to make wise decisions here alone, so to speak. and when that happens, i'm sure there's a better chance in the council. and that is why i ask you not to worry about us in february, but rather to use this special meeting to solve the questions you have listed yourself.
in writing. at the start of the brexit negotiations, the european union agreed with the united kingdom that substantial progress on the main issues of the separation was necessary before negotiations on the future relationship could take place. in particular, progress has not yet been made on civil rights, the border situation between ireland and northern ireland and the financial commitments of the united kingdom. the british government must now put forward concrete proposals on how it envisages the separation. the european parliament called for this in its resolution of 3 october. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
i would like to thank mr korwin-mikke.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agea report is not about the minimum wage; it is set by the member states and negotiated by the social partners. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. that is why i voted for the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the work of the european social fund. and at the national level, we need better rules for social welfare and social protection. but above all, it is a question of fair taxation policies in the member states. and that is where it really is bad: measures against tax avoidance, measures against tax evasion. that is why we made some key demands in the final report of the panama papers committee of inquiry, of which i am a member, last week. finally, the european semester must enable the actors to share best practice, from social investment to easier access to qualified services.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we are very much looking forward to commissioner timmermans’ proposals and i am sure, commissioner timmermans, that on a lot of them we will work together with you. a few others we might not like so much, but that’s life! i still want to point out some of the areas where we think that we absolutely need more progress and some of them have already been mentioned by colleagues. number one: the rule of law. we have a dramatic situation in a couple of member states. i think we all agree that we need to stand firm and that we need to be coherent in what we are doing if we want to achieve a good result and we should never let go, we should never give up on such a fundamental thing as making sure that the safeguards against arbitrary leadership, and even despotism, are not endangered in europe, and this goes to the very heart of the european project. in parliament we are currently working towards asking for article 7.1 to be triggered against hungary and i think that the commission must do the same now also with regard to poland. so you will come to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs – we are looking forward to your report – but we need to get active on that as well. as has been mentioned, i am glad that you are also taking that up, to look too into other measures, measures that have been proposed by parliament in the past and which are more sophisticated, more varied as well, and i think we need to go ahead with that to make sure that we are firm and strong on our european core principles and values. i also would like to mention the whole issue of sexual harassment because no woman should ever have to put up with such treatment – not on the street, not at work and not in this house or in any european institution. i really would like to applaud all of the women who in the past weeks have taken the courageous step – because it is an incredibly courageous step – to go out and say ‘this is what happened to me’. we must make sure that it is not just a matter of individual courage but that we actually also do something against sexual harassment. i would also say generally about sexism because sexism is what enables sexual harassment in the end, and there we really need to do more. we need to do more, we can do more as the european union. i would like to see this play a part in the work programme too, that there will be initiatives, because i think we should not just have a debate and then say ‘okay, well, next time we will have another debate’, but we should really get serious about this and say we do not accept it any longer. next on social justice, and colleagues have also mentioned that. i think social justice is absolutely key if we want to take the european union further and i think most of us here want that. we want to protect european citizens but that also means social protection. to have a proclamation on the european pillar on social rights, as is envisaged, is absolutely great and fantastic but proclamations alone are simply not enough. i think, for example, that the commission should propose a framework directive on an adequate minimum income for all europeans or different minimum incomes. we greens have also proposed an eu sustainability and prosperity pact for the european monetary union (emu) and the emu must go hand in hand with a binding roadmap for social, economic and environmental convergence. i think the issue of tax justice also forms part of the whole social justice package; the income part, so to say. all companies must contribute their fair share to welfare in the european union and therefore we also need to look at minimum tax for companies and common tax instruments because tax fraud and evasion must be fought with all consequence. lastly, on climate change, we do need much more effort. if we want to reach our targets then we have to get serious. we have to adjust our targets upwards and that is, i think, what we need to do because, as you rightly said, this is the last year before the european elections. we want people to vote and we want them to know why we make a difference.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one of the main tasks of this commission in the coming weeks and months will be to defend the european union as a democratic project. why do i say that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. of course we want a european monetary fund. but this cannot become an intergovernmental matter. or do you want to have 19 finance ministers - or better yet 27 - to decide how we should respond to the shocks of the world and what measures we should take, where we should vote and how long this should take? we have seen this nonsense with the troika. we have seen how much nonsense is born in the world well-intentioned but badly done when there is no parliamentary control. we're at your disposal because we want this to go deeper. we want to improve our economic policy instruments. but the commission must stand up and defend its own role. we also do not want the overview of the member states' finances to leave the commission; it belongs to the commission. their boss is juncker, not regling. we have elected you here and mr juncker and the commission's colleagues. but we did not elect mr regling here. it needs democratic control it needs the european parliament. we want to support you in this, now and in the future, and i thank you for that. i would like to say one last thing, perhaps also on behalf of my colleagues. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the interpreters. you're doing a great job. they're not just doing it today, they're doing it all year. thank you very much.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the commission's proposal that all pending legislative proposals should be tabled by may next year at the latest. this must include the proposal for the post-2020 mff, so that substantial interinstitutional negotiations can be launched without delay. the aim must be to conclude these negotiations successfully by the end of the current parliamentary term. all possible efforts must be made to avert a new payment crisis, including by deciding on the appropriate level of payment appropriations in the forthcoming budgets. a structured dialogue on the overall allocation, political and financial priorities, design and flexibility provisions of the future mff is essential. a position on the duration of the financial framework must be reached. the epp group has clearly stated that the commission should present a legislative proposal on the food supply chain. i am therefore very pleased that this demand has found a large majority in parliament and in the commission and is included in the work programme, in the legislative proposal. the proposal must include a framework at eu level on unfair trading practices, and the president-in-office has been very active in this. i also call on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to develop the common agricultural policy. here too, constructive dialogue is needed. mr timmermans, agriculture provides more than 41 million jobs in europe. we spend 32 cents per capita per day to keep these jobs and to keep over half a billion people getting enough to eat every day. i think that is a small amount which must be set aside for the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i don't think we can just deliver. we must also add a little spice to trade policy. not just a regular pizza, but a spicy pizza has to come out of it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the trade agreements listed are not to be evaluated in terms of quantity but in terms of quality. i think that today we must also bring in the question of tax avoidance, the question of corruption, so that in the end it is a good agreement and not just the number of agreements that counts. secondly, we have a proposal for a multilateral investment court. we must indeed push this to reform the situation. but it also means, mr timmermans, that we are going to review the 1 200 existing european investment agreements and amend them accordingly, in particular the energy charter, because otherwise we are not credible if we have two standards. thirdly, we must enforce the law. it is not possible that financial support does not take into account conditionalities the court of auditors has submitted a report and workers' rights must also be enforceable. you said in a speech in may that enforcement is the third right step to make trade policy more spicy.
we're coming to the catch-the-eye procedure, and i'm sorry to tell you that i have about twice as many reports and therefore have to cut back a little. i beg your understanding. catch the eye
thank you very much, mr. marias. i would point out that it is not parliamentary practice for the visitors' stand to give a statement of approval, applause or disapproval.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i have listened very carefully to the contributions from this house on the commission work programme for next year, and i retain a few things from our discussion. first of all, i sense that we share a sense of urgency – that we understand that the challenges europe faces are daunting – and i also see that the vast majority of this parliament wants to act, and wants us to try and help our citizens regain control over their destinies with measures at a european level that can no longer be taken only at the national level. there is a part of this parliament that believes in fleeing in a form of nostalgic nationalism, talking people down all the time as though we are on the brink of extinction; as though everything is going wrong, etc. yes, the challenges are daunting. yes, we are coming out of a deep economic crisis that has increased disparities in europe, and that has not led to the convergence we want. but we do have a new sense of shared destiny, which was expressed also in the european council. but one thing that perhaps did not get enough attention in that european council is that if you want that sense of purpose to be translated into concrete measures, you need the co-legislators. you need someone to make a proposal, and you need council and parliament jointly to take a decision so that you can implement it. and that is why the commission work programme is not just a bureaucratic exercise; it is a concrete translation of the ambitions that are formulated in this house, in the european council, and in the commission. i believe speeches will not solve problems; even the most brilliant speech does not solve a problem. concrete steps forward on social policy, on the digital single market, on completing the internal market and the banking union, on making sure that the very fundamental issue of the rule of law is something we strengthen in europe and do not weaken in europe, and on the fact that we need to deliver concrete results – and we do not have much time left until the next election – that is what we have reflected in the commission work programme. yes, there are disagreements amongst us, but this is the commission’s proposal, and we will look for a majority in this parliament in a debate. that is how democracy works. i even heard somebody say that the only legitimate democracies are at the national level. what nonsense: every single member of this house has been elected directly by european citizens and therefore has a mandate to decide with the council on legislation that affects every single european citizen, and i think we need to understand this responsibility we have. we need to be able to face our voters in 2019 with something we have accomplished and with a plan for the future, and for those of you who have raised the issue of governance in the economic and monetary union, saying that this cannot be a bureaucratic process: that is exactly why the commission has made this proposal. this should be discussed and mandated in this parliament if we take these major decisions. so that is the gist of our proposal for next year, and let me end on one thing: i believe it is also a matter of honour that we acknowledge that some of the problems we face are very, very complicated to solve, but we will not let them go. i refer to what the honourable member mr marias has said: the situation on the greek islands is still unacceptable, completely unacceptable, and this commission will never let go of its responsibility to make sure that we solve it. and i do agree with those of you who have said that this requires pan-european solidarity by all member states. i believe we are in our full right to demand this responsibility in member states. and responsibility also means that we adhere to the truth, that we do not tell fairy tales about a secret plan to ‘brusselise’ – or whatever they call it – european populations, or about a secret plan to force people to take migrants. this is not the case. the only plan we have is to provide european citizens with the tools so that they can shape their futures and their destinies on the basis of their values, and we need to do this collectively. globalisation will not go away if we take refuge in nation states only. globalisation can only be harnessed if we as europeans, act together with a common sense of purpose.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr siegfried mureşan and mr richard ashworth, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2018 all items (11815/2017 - c8-0313/2017 - 2017/2044 ((bud))
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs have only a small budget to administer. the most important thing for us is the three supervisory authorities. we are aware, i think, that the three supervisory authorities must be well equipped financially to fulfil their mandate. but they should be limited to their mandate and not go beyond it. the premise must always be that there is a budget only for tasks that are also covered by the legislator, and this requires fidelity to the mandate of the supervisory authorities. we can see that there is room for improvement. we think it is right that the commission has proposed that industry should also contribute to the review of the three supervisory authorities. but we want to ensure that the eu budget continues to be used to carry out the supervisory functions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we already want the first funds to be made available for the 2018 financial year so that the relocation of the european banking supervision can be smoothly carried out.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the 2018 financial year will be a crossroads between two timelines. the eu 2020 strategy, the current mff, the current funding period and the terms of office of the parliament and the commission are coming to an end. at the same time, the foundations for european policy after 2020 must be laid. balance and outlook are in sync. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, we must determine how we are to reorient ourselves. for example, 80% of direct aid in agriculture goes to 20% of the beneficiaries. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the union budget makes substantial contributions to trust funds. but they have so far escaped any meaningful scrutiny by parliament. we expect more transparency in 2018 on these and similar issues, which we have set out in our opinion.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not international trade and its associated agreements can be a crucial instrument of foreign policy, bringing growth and employment to the regions of the world. but they also have to do with, if they are open and rule-based, opening up the values and principles of an open global society. if we are to have an ambitious trade strategy for all in the next few years with many new complementary trade agreements, it is important that we first equip the commission with enough man and woman power not only to negotiate but also to understand and watch how trade agreements develop. we must ensure that trade aid funds are an indispensable instrument for the promotion of structures and projects, particularly in less developed countries, so that they can benefit from these developments. i also believe that technical assistance and economic assistance to our immediate neighbours to the east and south of the european union are of great importance. the european union has a long-term strategy for the mediterranean, and it is not just the mediterranean countries that are affected by the crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not when we talk about the 2018 budget, we are faced with the same game as every year: the commission makes a proposal, the council reduces that proposal, and the european parliament raises the whole again, regularly even above the level of the commission. it is not necessary to be a prophet to say that in the end, after all the negotiations, we will be very close to the commission's proposal. we have a fundamental flaw in our whole process, which is that, particularly here in the european parliament, we believe we can always ask for more money. we should be clear about this: this is european taxpayers' money. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what matters to me is not the cry for more money, but that we use our money appropriately, purposefully, focusedly. this means that we have sufficient funds to deal with the migration crisis, but also for security, research and, ultimately, to increase competition. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the common market. that is why we are calling for the abolition of permanent subsidies, except in small areas of exception, such as environmental protection. instead, we need to degrade subsidies. that would be a strengthening of competition, that would be real subsidiarity, that we would return to the freedom and self-responsibility of the member states. that is why we cannot support this draft. i would like to thank the commissioner for his draft and the rapporteurs for their excellent work. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr rübig, thank you for your question. of course, it's perfectly fine to pay interns, just as you should pay anyone who does a job, and pay them fairly. but if you think of the financial sums in terms of volume - we are talking about a budget in volume - depending on whether you take the commitments or the payments - of eur 160 billion - i do not think we can bring about a restructuring of our budget with the salaries of the trainees.
mr president, commissioner oettinger, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have adopted a resolution today in the votes on the next medium-term financial framework, and this resolution again stresses that the budget of the european union is currently underfunded. in this context, it is particularly important for me to emphasize once again that new tasks which the member states of the european union are entrusting to the community can only be financed with additional money. i am thinking in particular of the call for additional efforts in the field of the common security and defence policy. mr kölmel, of the conservatives, has just said in his speech: 'we should do with the money we have at our disposal. that is a lofty demand. i imagine we have a pot of soup, and the people are sitting around it, and they're just getting full. and then there's an extra eater, which is in this case the security and defence policy, but the soup is no longer made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this is particularly clear when we also think of the european fund for strategic investments. we all want this fund to succeed. but we all want investment in innovation and research - even the council wants it. mr fernandes has rightly pointed this out. i cannot therefore understand, mr minister, why you are concerned here about the european parliament's proposals to increase the additional effort of 416 million euro in research policy and over 800 million euro for better transport routes and transnational electricity lines in europe. this is investment in the future and in jobs in the european union, and we should agree on this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i have a question for you. you are right to ask: yes, where should we cut? would you agree with me that the area of competitiveness should be critically examined when there are areas which have been promoted for decades and which have obviously not increased competitiveness?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have no idea what area you are thinking of. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i'm not saying it's not possible to save in this budget. but i say that if the member states take a position and say that we do not want to pay more into the budget, but we want the budget to do more and more, then tensions are inevitable at certain points.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to focus briefly on three issues: first, the fight against youth unemployment in the european union. this is of particular importance to my group and to me. i am therefore pleased that we have at least managed to increase the funds for the fight against youth unemployment to eur 600 million, even though i would have liked more. secondly, the financing of the european solidarity corps. i welcome the idea of the esc; it brings young people together and strengthens european solidarity. as rapporteur for the budget on this subject, it is important for me to stress once again that new initiatives require new money. thirdly, i would like to raise the issue of combating poverty worldwide. we have prevented the irresponsible 6% cut in development spending. we have already made a first real sign of this by increasing the appropriations for heading iv of the budget - europe in the world. last week, i and many colleagues had many one youth ambassadors who are working to fight poverty worldwide, and they are calling for us to spend 100 million more on education and development aid. i think it's a reasonable call.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i would like to address myself to you, mr president-in-office. we're so glad you're here. you're very welcome. we have already discussed the discharge procedure in this house and the council presidency was not present. i want to thank you very much for coming. i would ask you to intervene in the council so that we can really finally come to a solution, because the council is taking it a little easy. you have a contractual obligation to propose a discharge decision. we're asking you to do all the work, not just half the work. we've been accusing you of refusing to work for years. they do not propose a discharge for the other institutions. they are not proposing a discharge to parliament. the reciprocity you demand in the memorandum of understanding, you already had it, you would exercise your options under the treaty and no one could stop you. no one did. besides, no one would stop you. the proposal for a discharge, this proposal is a 60 year old treaty. the discharge provision has never been updated and this is a failure of all the working groups that have dealt with the contract so far. you are asking us not to relieve the commission if we do not want to relieve you. i think, commissioner, that we should do that and then we shall see what is going on in this europe! i mean, i would ask you to take part in it seriously. we have a mandate from the house, and we're willing to do it. we know the constraints of the council, but we also want to ask to be taken seriously. why don't you take us seriously? the thing with the champagne bottles, i'm not so much my problem. i don't want to know. there are probably few budgets more boring than the council's budget. but it is a fundamental question for us, and the fundamental question can only be that civil servants should not be allowed to rule over parliamentarians. this is an unding. with such a proposal no council official would be confronted in his member state with his national parliament. but here, they make such absurd demands, because with us, you can do it. if we are prepared to seriously pursue a solution, i am sure that we will also find a solution. that's why i'm calling you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, 16 october 2017 has been the saddest day for me personally as a member of this parliament. first of all, our sincere condolences go to the family of daphne, whom i got to know as one of the most courageous people in the fight for justice and the rule of law in europe. the way in which daphne was killed tells us a lot about the unjust and criminal system which she was fighting. daphne was killed in the open, there was no hiding. her murderers did not even try to make the attack appear to be an accident. on the contrary, this was a brutal demonstration of power by those who consider themselves above the law. it is very clear why the murderers did not place a bomb under the car of the police chief or the attorney general. it was daphne who shed light on a system of money-laundering and corruption in malta, and not these authorities. let me just name a small selection of illegal, or at least illegitimate, activities that daphne has made public: letterbox companies owned by members of the government; the sale of passports to so-called investors; tax avoidance for multinational companies; online gambling based on weak supervision and hyper-low taxation. all these cases have one thing in common. malta has sold its sovereignty to dirty money. malta has replaced the rule of law with a culture of impunity for the powerful, and fiddling between political and financial elites. this is europe, not russia. europe must act when fundamental rights are at stake. it is now up to us to finish daphne’s fight, and therefore we would like to suggest five concrete steps. first, an international investigator has to be appointed who will be fully involved in the ongoing investigations on money-laundering and corruption in malta. second, malta should take that opportunity finally to join the european prosecutor. third, we demand a serious investigation by the european commission on the rule of law in malta and systematic treaty infringement procedures to enforce anti-money laundering law everywhere in europe. fourth, we also support daphne’s family in their demand for the muscat government to step down because of its failure in enforcing the rule of law in malta. and lastly, we are proposing the introduction of a european galizia prize here in this house for investigative journalists, modelled on the sakharov prize. the murderous attack on daphne was an attack on european values, our fundamental principles. let us not forget that people who suffer from corruption in their countries put their hopes in europe. let us not disappoint these citizens. let us not disappoint daphne and her family. let us act together to defend our fundamental principles of democracy, the rule of law and justice.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, of course we need to know who is coming into our european union, into our schengen area. but what do we have to do for that? we have to check their passports, and that is exactly what we are doing. we have a system, the schengen information system (sis), in which – if it worked perfectly – we would have information about every suspicious person, every risky person, and at the outer borders of our common schengen area there would be checks against every traveller, and everyone would be checked. we would know who is coming in. if this system worked, no doubt we would have a better, more secure environment in our european union. what are we doing? we are not fixing the system, which is not working because some of the member states’ authorities are not thoroughly working with the system and feeding information into it. at some of the outer borders the checks are perhaps not working, yet we are building a completely new database – a database which does not focus, like the schengen information system, on risky persons or on suspicious persons, but one which just retains the data of completely irrelevant and innocent travellers – travellers like businesspeople, travellers or tourists who are coming to the european union. we are welcoming them, and now are registering them for up to four years along with their sensitive personal data, their biometrical data, but without any suspicion and without any risk. not only is that unnecessary because of the schengen information system, it is also not necessary to check visa over-stayers. if you really want to keep track of visa over-stayers, you need to know not only that there is a visa over-stayer, but also where the visa over—stayer is. but with this system you do not keep track of any visa over-stayer in the european union. you just know that they have not left. there is no added value in this system. it will cost eur one billion – that is the estimation of a study of this house. it will be an unnecessary collection of much information about travellers who are completely innocent. in july, the court of justice ruled that the canadian authorities, in the case of pnr data, are not allowed to retain the data of travellers longer than the time of their travels in canada. they have to delete the data after the exit, unless there is a risk or a suspicion. what we expect from the canadian authorities with regard to our citizens, we should also respect with regard to citizens of third—countries like canada. we propose to limit the collection to 181 days, which is the longest any non-eu national can stay in the european union, and after that only on risk or suspicion. we hope that you will vote in favour of that to make a legal proposal here.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i listen with some bewilderment to the extreme left and the extreme right and i think that the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have had a good negotiation, because it has been very reasonable. we're securing the outer borders to prevent miles of traffic jams from being controlled at the inner borders. nobody wants that mile-long traffic jam back. we want people in the european union to be able to travel freely, to provide services and to transport their economic goods, and we do not want the separatism and nationalism of previous centuries and decades to return. i believe that a european system is also the most effective and the cheapest and that we can control entry and exit with it. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism, but that it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i was the first person to arrive at the airport in greece and i was able to board a plane and travel within the eu very easily. this was not a problem, and the usual security checks that we see at brussels airport were normal. i do not know what special conditions greece would be subject to. i believe that it is reasonable to have security checks at airports for the safety of aircraft, so that the safety of passengers and aircraft is guaranteed. i think everybody's grateful for that, and everybody wants that.
i have to say, madam president, better legislation must be more than a nice phrase: good laws well made. what does that mean for entry/exit? the opinion of the european court of justice in july on the canada nap has clearly confirmed doubts about the legality of this text. the retention of data of people who are completely unencumbered is not proportionate, it is not compatible with our fundamental rights and the right to privacy. this applies to other measures as well. our legal services were more than vague in their assessment of the significance of the entry/exit judgment. a convincing assessment they have remained guilty of to this day. the commission's unconvincing answers to our questions are no better. good legislation would mean taking some time to clearly address legal concerns or simply to at least significantly reduce the retention periods of unsuspecting persons, as the commission had originally proposed. we can do that this week. we would then be sure that we have done everything to ensure that this text will stand up to scrutiny before the court of justice. the practical application of entry/exit, foreseen for 2020, would be possible. better legislation: hopefully more than just a phrase.
i have to say, madam president, it is probably due to my east german biography that i have a strong distrust of such data collections. if citizens in general and in this case in terms of entry into the eu are suspected, then something is wrong and the rule of law is being turned upside down. apart from my phobia of data collection, where personal data is hoarded en masse and without cause, there is the ecj. they remember, dimly, that they were the ones who sent the airline passenger data agreement with canada into the orc. we doubt that the entry and exit system is compatible with the charter of fundamental rights and we are against a data retention system for innocent travellers which has no demonstrable benefit but wastes a billion euros. if you really want to do something about terrorism or, in particular, about so-called illegal immigration, then please create a humane asylum and immigration system - that would be something. the current state of the entry and exit system is likely to be the subject of a case before the court of justice. we'll do what we can. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have only one very specific question: why is it that in the case of data collection on taxpayers and in the case of constant checks of an unannounced nature - which is a general suspicion against taxpayers - there are no concerns at all, while in the case of normal border checks there are suddenly such big problems? so i find the contradiction a little strange.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i don't know how you're making that comparison, but okay. taxes must be paid and must not be cheated. we should do everything we can to achieve this, and far too little is being done. there are tax havens here in europe too, and i would be delighted if you would join us in doing something about tax havens. but that's beside the point. this is about innocent travelers. it's useless, it's not even worth the effort. i think you are going the wrong way.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: you heard what the fpö said. you're adopting the same rhetoric as the right-wing populists and hate speech in this house, and you're empowering them with it. are you aware of the fact that what happened in austria is a problem we have all over europe? if you continue to use this language here in the european parliament, you will undermine our values in the european union and our common strength.
i have to say, madam president, i would simply ask all the members of this house, when we are discussing such a subject, to talk about the subject, to talk about facts, and not to polemise and politicise. it's not helping the case.
i have to say, madam president, the schengen system is currently in danger of collapse. several countries have suspended the application because of the large number of migrants, criminals and even terrorists moving within the eu. the external borders are still not adequately protected everywhere. for these reasons, the smart border and entry/exit systems are worth supporting. it will help us to at least curb the crime and illegal migration that reaches us across the external borders. in my view, however, this is not enough to save the schengen system. illegal border crossings into the eu are still possible in many places. it is also not reducing crime from within the eu. the eu member states should be given the right to require biometric identification of all foreigners on their territory - and by that i mean eu citizens in another country - as needed. for example, requiring citizens to use biometrics when crossing borders within the eu or when being stopped by police in another country would not be an unreasonable interference and would be of great help to the authorities, especially in times of cross-border terrorism.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, ‘me too!’ i have been sexually harassed, just like millions of other women in the european union and i think it is about time that we very clearly say that we should not be ashamed but that the perpetrators should be ashamed. sexual harassment is such a widespread problem all over the european union, and we will need legislative steps to combat it. accession to the istanbul convention is a first step but, in order really to do something about this, we will need a directive on the fight against violence against women. the shocking reports about events in this parliament also give us the duty to do something about this matter. so we will need specific measures to work on, and improve, the mechanisms for fighting sexual harassment in this house. one last point. yes, this is about women, but it is not a women’s issue. we need men to speak up. so, to all of the men in this chamber and to all of the men in the european union, i would say: ‘you cannot be complacent anymore. speak up, stand up against sexual harassment. we cannot take this, we need to fight it together.’
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we bow down today first of all to the courage of those affected, because it is not easy to address these events, to stand up and talk about them. but these brave people are creating the space for a much-needed debate. this is about more than individual misconduct. it is a dimension which is easy to see, which we can easily grasp if we simply look at the statements made by the current president of the united states about how women should be treated. what does that tell us? it's this climate of permissiveness, this culture of permissiveness of abuse. it always has something to do with stupid dominance behavior, with violence, with the attempt of abuse, but with oppression. there's always a little bit of dominance in it. we must uncover the causes of this behaviour. we need to talk to each other and counter that with a culture of respect, a culture of dignity. that is true of this house, it is true of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. let us not forget - today, on this day - what is happening at europe's external borders, in the refugee camps and in the detention centres, how girls, young women, children are being abused, and what a scandal we are allowing to happen! we must also bring dignity and respect into our development policies and our refugee policies. that is part of the debate today.
i have to say, madam president, thank you for the opportunity to speak here today. in her speech mrs reintke said that the problem of sexual harassment is not and should not be a problem for women alone, and she has hit the nail on the head with that: she is right. the fact that almost all the speakers today were female colleagues is part of the problem we are facing. sexual harassment is almost always perpetrated by men. so we men have to say, "not with us". that's why i'm here today, and i wish a lot more of my colleagues would do that today. we are also seeing the events here in the house and we must critically examine what happened there. the fact that we have a complaints committee with meps, where women can complain when they are victims of sexual violence, victims of the exercise of power, cannot be the right starting point. the courage of those concerned must be rewarded, and we must continue to take action, in addition to the adoption of the report tomorrow.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think that every woman in this house – and quite a lot of men – have a story to tell on this, either a personal experience or someone that is close to us: stories about sexual harassment, sexist comments, and possibly even violence and rape. this is not new. it didn’t start with the ‘me too’ movement. it has been going on for decades, for centuries, but the novelty this time is that there is a global movement of women crying out: ‘this is not acceptable’. many men as well. this is not something we will continue to accept. we do not accept that this is hidden – the shame and the silence around this phenomena – and that is so powerful. that is why i thank you for this debate. there are a lot of laws in the european union. there are projects, there are directives and there are codes of conduct. these are important. the arsenal of legal and policy measures at the eu level covers most of the actions to support member states in their work in fighting all kinds of violence against women and girls. now we need to focus on implementation, and here there is work to do. we also need to dedicate all our efforts to complete the accession of the istanbul convention. we also need to look at ourselves. what are we doing? the commission has a helpline. we have strong rules to protect whistle—blowers who come and alert us on this. we have a network of confidential counsellors who can support women and girls – and men – who are victims of this. we have internal campaigns and courses and formal action. we will subject all this to external evaluation. possibly we can do more. i am sure that in the european parliament you have your own rules and you are looking at them. possibly you can do more on a formal basis. but the most important thing, as this campaign signals, is to support the victims, to say that what they have experienced is not ok and that we will go with them. the majority of the men in this house and elsewhere, who would never dream of harassing a woman, you need to speak out. you need to support this woman and say that what their colleague did is not ok and that they will walk with her and support her in making sure that justice is brought on this. so let’s support each other. let’s encourage the network to function in this regard. let’s make sure that not only is this ‘me too’ campaign heard all across the world, but also that it is also transformed into action, where hopefully this will eventually lead to the eradication of this violence. the problem is much broader, as we have discussed. we will do what we can from the commission side. member states have their role to play, but the most important is a change of attitude, and here we can all contribute. thank you very much for having this debate. i think it is of extreme importance, but let us not let the work stop after the vote tomorrow.
in writing. i find it significant that in almost every plenary session we discuss violence against women in some form. it shows me that violence against women is still commonplace, even in europe. because sexual harassment is mostly violence against women power positions are used to intimidate and oppress women. the scale of the problem is shown by the number of shares of the hashtag "metoo". i hope that we can create awareness that sexual harassment is not a cavalier offense, that we can find in this house regulations that break the silence of the harassed. i wish we had a hashtag soon called "menot" where women can post that they have never been sexually harassed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. together we want to reduce, or at best prevent, irregular migration in the eu. that is why we need a common policy on asylum and a migration policy which allows legal immigration. it's good for both sides. it gives us a sense of control and shows a possible path to the people who come to us seeking a better future for themselves and their children. this approach may not always work - perhaps not at first attempt - but it is an alternative to the often hopeless attempt to sneak in asylum or, above all, to risk one's life in flight. we need policies that tackle the causes of flight and migration. the sustainable response to the causes of displacement, such as climate disasters, instability and war-related poverty, must be achieved through a networked approach of development cooperation, humanitarian aid and a common security policy. this includes radically reviewing our own trade policies, our own subsidies, to see how they contribute to poverty and inequality. above all, we must remain credible. we have an africa trustfund, which should have two 1.8 billion euros at the beginning. the result is quite good for us in the eu: over 2.5 billion are in. however, the member states, with the help of switzerland and norway alone, paid in just 176 million. i wonder how many millions of refugees will have to come to europe before those in the member states stop talking and finally take action. it's about time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we're talking about people smuggling here. we're talking about being a smuggler. the violations of the rules, the violations of the law, which so many speakers have lamented here, are only one side of the coin. the other, and much more terrible, side of the coin is the loss of human life we see: when people are sent by traffickers to boats that are not seaworthy, when they are deliberately driven to their deaths in part because the tax is determined when there is too little drinking water on board and more of the same. we must do something about these traffickers, these criminals, these murderers. i miss the initiative. why do we not do what we do with the capture of murderers in the european union, by suspending rewards for those who help to capture these murderers? why don't we give money - a lot of money - to all those refugees who, before they get on such a boat, report and say: 'there are the traffickers - arrest these people.' why do we not cooperate with the police in the countries concerned, saying: we praise the money, you arrest the people, and then we bring them to justice?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, we must have a common definition, and that is why it is really time to create a common european asylum law and in this way have a common definition and possibly link this with an immigration law. secondly, i would like to say that mrs merkel did not invite everyone, but she does not let people die either. in poland there are one million ukrainian labour migrants, just as there are hundreds of thousands of polish labour migrants in germany - please do not count that. i would like to say again about the questions themselves: we must make it clear that those who are fleeing war and those who are in the classic sense of asylum, fearing for their lives, have protection. this is a human and legal obligation! we must see if this can be done elsewhere than on our soil. but we have a fundamental claim here which cannot be denied and which cannot be brought under one roof. we must realize that, in the event of illegal entry, we must of course protect the external borders, which is what we have been calling for in this european parliament for years, for 15 years already, even in the constitutional convention. member states did not do so because of europe's competence rage. better, to be able to end wars and make decent african politics, not the lousy one we have been doing. and we need to cooperate with the coastal countries. we have an agreement with turkey, and turkey is taking action against the traffickers. that is why there are now 92 per cent fewer refugees from turkey than three years ago. at the same time, we are supporting the refugees in turkey. this is the right way, and here we have first approaches with respect to africa; the situation in libya may be much more difficult, but there is progress here, and it is clear. this summer there were 81% fewer refugees from africa than the previous summer, but we cannot leave greece and italy without solidarity either.
mr president, i welcome this report on the euro area, and in particular that it points to the danger of complacency. however, i fear the danger of complacency is much more profound than this report is able to express. there is a danger of complacency in the financial sector as the memories of the crisis fade. this week the commission withdrew the banking structural reform proposal, to the great applause of the european peoples’ party and gunnar hökmark, and globally significant banks and their lobbyists are having quite a party knowing that the taxpayer will continue to be on the line when things go wrong. also, there is a real danger of complacency with regard to the future of the euro area. it is regrettable that the report does not elaborate on the rather plausible scenario of interest rates going up within the next 18 months, which would stand to put a lot of pressure on countries that have below—average growth and above—average debt levels. i fear, while i welcome the 6 december package that the commission has pointed to, that this package is unlikely to be sufficient. member states – france and germany in particular – need to use the present window of opportunity to really move the currency union to the next level. stopping short of that, there is a real danger that complacency will be our peril.
member of the commission. – mr president, maybe the plenary is so efficient today that people have not had time to go down the stairs, but for those honourable members who are here, i would like to talk about australia and new zealand tonight. as you know, they are friends, allies and partners of the european union. we share a lot with them – our norms, our values, different approaches – and strengthening that relationship is a priority. the eu has signed political framework agreements with both countries to further strengthen the partnership on the basis of these values: respect for democratic principles, human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, promotion together of international peace and security, and also our joint work to strengthen the multilateral system and global rule—based trade. the eu has a healthy and mature trade and investment relationship with both these countries. we are one of the biggest partners of australia and new zealand in the trade of goods, services and foreign direct investment. australia and new zealand have concluded foreign trade agreements with china, with asean, with japan and with korea. they are part of the trans—pacific partnership with 11 countries, and they are moving ahead. these developments have put european exporters of goods, services and investors in a comparatively less favourable situation compared to their competitors in other countries. the commission has carried out an impact assessment, clearly showing the benefits of these agreements for european producers and consumers. the already considerable eu exports to both countries, on a par with our exports to canada, could increase by a third in the long term. the submission to the public consultation and the commission’s impact assessment paid particular attention to some significant sensitive sectors in european agriculture in the context of these free trade agreements, and also what we do on our broad agenda: dairy, beef, sheep meat and sugar. the commission made it absolutely clear to our partners in australia and new zealand that agricultural sensitivities must be taken into account in these negotiations. no full liberalisation can be imagined. the commission has therefore proposed that the negotiating directives specifically include this aspect to ensure that the future agreement will not cause any disruption in the eu, including in our outermost regions. on 13 september, as you recall, the commission adopted recommendations for negotiating authorisations and directives for free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. an important difference with our recent practice is that these recommendations do not cover investment protection. that does not mean that we will not negotiate investment protection agreements with australia and new zealand, but it does not have to be right now. we are reflecting, following the opinion of the court of justice on the singapore free trade agreement, and we are engaged in a discussion with member states about the future architecture of the eu trade and investment agreement. we have also taken into account what some member states said, namely that if investment protection is proposed additionally, then parliament should of course be consulted on that aspect as well. i just want to end with a few words on transparency. this is something that you, this chamber, often – and very rightly so – demand of the commission. as i strongly support transparency as well, we have made these recommendations public to the world. we invited member states to engage early with their national parliaments so that there could be an early discussion on these two negotiations and of course also to facilitate your work on this and to give the general public an idea what trade negotiations are about and what is in this agreement. this is to strengthen, not to undermine, the important work that you do in this regard. these proposed directives are now under discussion in the council. i hope that they will soon give us the authorisation to launch these negotiations without delay. in this context, we in the commission very much welcome your contribution – the debate tonight and the votes you will have tomorrow on this – which contribute to giving us a clear steer of the priorities of parliament in the upcoming negotiations. we will of course, as always, keep you closely informed about developments as we take these initiatives forward. the free trade agreements will help eu companies to have better access to the markets in australia and new zealand. these trade agreements can create jobs, bring about benefits to consumers and also support workers’ rights and environmental and climate change objectives. this initiative is framed by our strategy to promote openness based on values and standards with like—minded partners committed to progressive rules for global trade. this is another part of our work to build bridges, not walls, with a circle of friends who share our values and this is also very much a political message, as well as an economic and trade policy question. i very much look forward to the debate tonight.
on behalf of the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm sorry i came running in here at the last minute. but we have just had a discussion on this matter in our group at the same time. i see that two representatives of the committee on agriculture will be speaking after me, and there has just been a heated debate between trade and agriculture. that's why i lost track of time. i would like to call on the rapporteur, mr daniel caspary, to support the recommendations to the council on the mandate for the eu's trade negotiations with australia and new zealand. it is a longstanding demand of the epp group, but also of parliament, to open free trade negotiations with these countries. we all know that now that the united states has withdrawn from ttip, we have a very different geopolitical situation and it is the right moment for the eu to show that we are in favour of free trade. but i would like to point out - and i am also speaking to my colleagues on the committee on agriculture - that we must also support free trade in favour of our agriculture. we have already started negotiations or concluded agreements with several countries in the asia-pacific region. so it makes sense that we're doing it with these two now. the rapporteur would like to emphasize three points. firstly, on 13 september the commission presented mandates relating exclusively to trade and investment liberalization agreements. the mandates shall cover only matters falling within the competence of the european union. this is the approach which the group and parliament should support, since it ensures the viability of european trade policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, if either the council adds the issue of investment protection to the mandates or the commission submits a proposal for a second agreement, including investment protection, parliament will in any case take a position on this. i'll add here: have to position. agriculture is a sensitive issue in trade with australia and new zealand. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thirdly, the enforcement mechanism in the sustainability chapter. this is a contentious issue between the two major groups - all the other groups have different opinions on this too. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope the other groups will follow us. i would like to make it quite clear, also on behalf of the rapporteur, to my colleagues on the committee on agriculture and to all those who fear that our continent could be too much changed by globalisation and free trade: we will also ensure that our standards, whether they be social standards, environmental standards or consumer protection standards, are guaranteed in the committee on trade.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is this apple supposed to come from new zealand in the future? then he's got more air miles than some of the ministers. the eu wants to conclude new free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. we shall discuss this in plenary tomorrow and we shall vote on it. the question is: do we need these agreements at all? our industry certainly wants to export machinery, cars and so on. australia, for example, wants to export sheepmeat, coal, uranium and ore, new zealand meat, dairy products and other agricultural products. does it really make sense to transport milk or agricultural products halfway around the world when we have so much of it ourselves? we have a dairy farm, we have enough sheep. we don't need these products. but in these countries, production is cheaper than in our country because they have lower animal welfare standards. that means our agriculture will lose jobs. it is not true that we are creating new jobs through these agricultural products, at least at all levels. on the contrary, i am. let us look at what happened with nafta, the agreement between the united states, canada and mexico. 800 000 jobs have been lost there mainly in agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not need these agreements for that. modern free trade agreements involve quite different things: they restrict our legislation to a certain extent. i am still baffled by the wording of the ceta agreement. it expressly states that unnecessary barriers to trade and investment must be removed or no new barriers must be created. what is unnecessary is not decided by us here in parliament, but by some industrialists. this means a very deep intrusion into our sovereignty, into our freedom. in other words, these free trade agreements are introducing neoliberal economics into our country.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not two figures are particularly interesting: firstly, for the first time since 2011, the number of new complaints from citizens, businesses or organisations about potential breaches of eu law decreased in 2015. this is welcome, although the figure of some 3 500 complaints a year is still quite high. and then the second number: in the same year 2015 , the commission opened 742 new infringement procedures against member states. the delayed or incorrect implementation of european legislation has undoubtedly had a negative impact on general legal certainty and also on the conditions of competition in the internal market. and if we have to note that it was precisely in the field of employment that the majority of complaints about violations of eu law were received in 2015, then it is not surprising that citizens perceive that their social and labour rights are not improving. we have seen time and again that when problems arise, people refer loudly to 'those in brussels'. it is so easy and so incredibly popular to scapegoat brussels. but it can't go on like this. it is high time that when we talk about the european union and its problems, we put the horse and rider in concrete terms, that is, we make clear who is responsible for what and who has political responsibility. the commission is responsible for proposing legislation and, as guardian of the treaties, for ensuring that european law is respected, and member states are responsible for implementing european laws in a timely manner and applying them properly once they have been adopted. they must not shirk this responsibility. they must finally do their duty so that we can all enjoy the benefits of european legislation. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr chrysogonos, for his excellent work and the good cooperation which he has shown.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is the guardian of the treaties. so far, so good, or more accurately, so far, so bad. because if i take two big and important areas, for example migration and the eurozone, i do not see the commission fulfilling its mandate to actually enforce compliance with these treaties. we have a dublin agreement, and it clearly regulates how we have to behave in the area of migration. it is being permanently violated. this is one of the main reasons why we in the eu are in such a big crisis. if i take the maastricht treaty, i have to say that it is a rare thing that it is violated dozens of times - indeed, well over a hundred times - without any sanctions being imposed. the eu should not be allowed to do that. and it's not that we have a european institution - with the european central bank - that basically does what it wants. it is going beyond its mandate, it is implementing measures that are not sustainable in any way, and the burden will be on the eu citizens, the taxpayers. i ask the commission to take steps to remedy this situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the aim of the environmental liability directive was to introduce non-contractual liability for the prevention and remediation of environmental damage, based on the polluter pays principle. we must admit that this has not worked so far. the directive was implemented far too late and only in a fragmented and inconsistent manner; often it is not used at all. the obligation to report environmental damage is not being met. it is not possible that 86% of all damage should come from just two of the 28 member states. we therefore need an obligation to set up a central public database to which all citizens can have access and be informed about environmental damage. we must enable our citizens to enforce their rights, and in this respect it is urgent to open up the way to collective enforcement. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. we have 467 000 deaths a year in the european union alone from bad air. that is 467 000 deaths too many in the european union. we must also clarify definitions such as the significance of environmental damage. some of the definitions are too restrictive and therefore need to be updated to ensure that liability is not void. and finally, the remediation of environmental damage costs money. in order to be able to pay for this removal in any case, we need a compulsory environmental liability insurance for operators and we also need to clarify the issue of secondary liability. in the event of an emergency, we need an eu fund to step in when companies are insolvent. it must not be that environmental damage cannot be remedied because of the lack of liquidity of the polluters, because then even the best law will not help.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to ask you if we can expect to fill the other vacant vice-presidency positions. or is it because the long-departed colleagues have left no space?
mr president, briefly, because a lot of myths – or you could also say a lot of lies – have been spread around by some industrial lobbyists. i would like to add some very short points on what we are deciding today. the eprivacy regulation aims to put users back in control of their communication data and to make sure that confidentiality of communication in a digital environment becomes a reality for everyone. at the same time, the eprivacy regulation does not ban all forms of advertising. it only addresses the issues of surveillance-driven advertising and wants consumers given a choice about whether they want to be tracked or not for commercial purposes. also – and i really cannot understand how this argument came into the debate – the mandate of the eprivacy regulation does not at all affect the powers of member states to fight against illegal content online. members today have a very clear choice: you can either disappoint the vast majority of citizens who want their confidentiality to be protected, or you can give in to the demands and lies of some industry lobbyists. any further delay in this decision will only affect the strength of our position when it comes to negotiations with council and commission. therefore, i urge everybody here to vote in favour of the mandate today. (applause)
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau's request to the commission, pursuant to rule 130b of the rules of procedure, to submit to the european parliament and to the council, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the environmental protection of the european union (eea) and the european year of the environment and the environment of the european union (eea) (o-000074/2017 2017/2867 ((rsp)) (b8-0603/2017).
thank you, commissioner. we have seen a commissioner who is sincere in what he says; that is also a nice feeling to have. thank you. the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 14 november 2017.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr gesine meissner, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the recognition of professional qualifications in inland navigation and repealing council directive 96/50/ec and council directive 91/672/eec (com (2016) 0082 c8-0061/2016 2016/0050 (cod)) (a8-0338/2016).
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can say that today is a good day for inland navigation. inland waterway transport is not well known, but it is very important for the whole transport sector. the commissioner will probably be joining us shortly. the fact is that as soon as we confirm the trilog result, we will have uniform rules for inland waterway training - for shipmasters, for pilots, for seamen and for sailors. and by the way, all of that is available in the female form. so there are already some women working in this sector. the whole inland waterway sector is also very much in favour of this regulation, for a number of reasons. one is that we need more inland waterways in the future. it is a very environmentally friendly means of transport, and we want to intensify it. we have a shortage of skilled workers. we also have no worker mobility because of the different training courses; we would like to increase it. at the same time, we want to make it possible for people to qualify for inland waterway transport as a cross-border entrant from another sector. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of water, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take this into account in its proposals. the first is that the training of the staff is not a matter of the individual, but of the individual. additional qualifications are needed, for example, when operating passenger ships or dangerous goods or liquefied gas or when operating particularly long convoys or dealing with radar. these are all extra exams that need to be taken. and you have to take into account that the rivers are very different, different in length, different in complexity. i also learned a lot, for example, that the danube has a particularly strong current and requires special knowledge of the route in some places, just as the rhine, for example, is sometimes particularly busy and prone to accidents. it is also a matter of knowing the route, and if you want to drive there, you have to be qualified to do so. the standards are based on something that has been around for a long time, namely the guidelines of the rhine commission. there are also river commissions for other rivers, which know their river well and let everything flow in. of course we have old certificates, and for that we have found a temporary solution, how long they can remain valid. it wasn't a big deal. the big problem was to see who, which countries, should be covered. for example, not all member states have rivers. malta, for example, has no river, but it does have a school for seafarers. it may be that the maltese will one day consider training inland navigators and the practical part - i see peter van dalen doing it in holland. it could be. and so we said, we have to see who this applies to, who it does not. we have just removed, for example, the sports boats and also the military and the police and the rescue services. and we said, you have to think about it, if you don't have any rivers at all -- like malta, cyprus and denmark, which do have a river, but it's not navigable -- then you can say, you don't have to do anything at all right now, unless you're thinking about starting an education. then, of course, the law must be fully implemented. the second is the case of finland. finland has many lakes but no direct rivers and is not connected to the european river network. i also learned that there are finnish saunas with outboard engines, which of course do not require a captain's licence. they now have the possibility of simply getting their eu driving licence recognised, but also of having and maintaining their own training. but if finnish sailors do not go to the rhine on the lake, then they must also have the other training. and finally, you can say, everybody else has to do it. so it was pretty complicated to get through it. as i said, i learned a lot about the rivers of europe. and i've had a lot of fun, especially with my shadow reporters - i don't see them all. i know merja kyllönen, for example, has apologized, she's not here. but there are many others, peter van dalen is there. it was very exciting and i think we have achieved a good result together with the maltese. thank you very much.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i come from a region where inland navigation is vital to industry. and i'm sure that their importance will even increase in the near future. because if we are serious about intermodality and decarbonisation, then we need to use waterways better and more effectively. we must create european prospects for the working people, and this law is one such step, because we are finally making the recognition of qualifications possible. the inland waterway sector is an exciting sector and we should encourage young people to take up this type of work. we therefore need to continue to work consistently on this and make measurable progress in areas such as digitalisation and greening of fleets. it is therefore important that the commission should provide further impetus and appropriate budgets. i would like to thank mrs meissner and the rapporteurs for their work. (the speaker is speaking without a microphone.)
the rapporteur. the commission is not we have already noted that there are many proponents of inland navigation in this chamber. i would like to take up again what gabriele preuss said: we need to make more use of waterways. most people don't think about it. we all know how important inland waterway transport is to those of us who have worked on it. not all countries have navigable rivers. that's it. that's it. but here in the north -- the netherlands, germany, and of course france and romania -- they have a lot of inland waterways, and we need to use them more because they actually relieve the road and they're also tremendously environmentally friendly. so the good thing is that we want to create more mobility in this - we all want that - and we will of course also provide for digitisation and other improvements - environmental friendliness, etc. i would like to say something again about the compromise that was discussed. it was indeed nice to have the netherlands, romania and also finland represented by the reporting and shadow rapporteurs very different countries. malta, which has no river, had to negotiate the whole thing for the council. this has really led to us figuring out how to make a law so that an eu-wide - i'll say it now: inland waterway driving licence, of course, does not mean that it has to be recognised in a different way everywhere, if you have a river at all, but that you do not have to implement the whole law, as for example in finland, where it takes a lot of effort to pour it into national legislation. i think we have found a good compromise. i am very happy about that. that was a very tough fight. we were not sure we could do it. but it worked. so, thank you all again. and another thing: we also added the that wasn't like that before , which means it has to be translated into all languages. this is something that claudia țapardel has been particularly keen to achieve. of course it matters. if you want to have worker mobility, everyone has to understand what it is about. the commission now has two years to come up with concrete proposals for certificates and so on. member states have four years to implement it. then we must have made a great deal of progress in inland navigation. thank you very much and of course, please vote in favour tomorrow.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already done so. mr. koch is still out of town. it is good to have traffic problems in transport policy. he asked me to give his speech. i have good news and bad news for you. the good news is that we live in one of the safest regions in the world when it comes to road safety. since 1992, the number of people killed in accidents has almost halved. the bad news: despite the sharp decline, some 25,500 people - a small town - still died on europe's roads in 2016, and 135,000 suffered serious injuries, often with permanent disabilities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road safety directive is implemented. wherever this happens, it is our most vulnerable road users, the pedestrians and cyclists, who are most affected. and for every accident victim, on average 113 other people are directly affected, whether family members, friends or co-workers. the further reduction in the number of fatalities vision zero , as well as the target of reducing the number of serious injuries by 50% agreed by eu transport ministers in march this year, require measures affecting vehicles, infrastructure and the behaviour of road users. and these measures should not be contradictory but complementary. in some 92 per cent of accidents, human error is a contributing factor, and in 72 per cent it is the main cause. that makes it clear that we must start here first. you all know the causes: distraction, distraction, as well as alcohol and drugs in the driver's seat, recklessness, overestimation of self and excessive speed. training and awareness raising for all road users is good and essential, but it is not enough. we need, in addition to fault-tolerant infrastructure, invisible drivers and helpers in distress: driver assistance systems. the main purpose of these measures is to help correct misconduct by drivers and to minimise distraction and distractibility. on this road to fully autonomous driving, it will be precisely these technical systems in the vehicles that can save lives. driver assistance systems must warn drivers in critical situations and give them the opportunity to react in time to maintain control of the vehicle. if the driver does not do this or does not do it correctly, they should be able to intervene autonomously, as it were, automatically. the role of driver assistance systems is to firstly alert the driver to hazards and to assist and relieve him, secondly to promote fuel-efficient driving and thirdly to contribute to the sustainability of road traffic and to a fluid traffic flow. fourthly, it can improve the comfort of the driver. i would like to mention just a few of them: firstly, the maximum limit for the blood alcohol concentration of drivers or the greater consideration of weaker road users such as pedestrians, cyclists and people with reduced mobility. as far as the driver assistance systems themselves are concerned, i would like to make it compulsory only to install safety-related systems as standard. so i suggest to you , mr. cook , there must be a substantial contribution to road safety based on scientific evidence, a positive cost-benefit ratio and these systems must be market-ready. therefore, i believe that automatic emergency brake assistants with pedestrian and cyclist detection, emergency brake displays, lane keeping assistants, cornering assistants for trucks in conjunction with camera equipment , tyre pressure monitoring systems and ecall for motorcycles meet this criterion. i am also building on a bundling of technical components which help to make cars cheaper, even by increasing the number of units. the key to the effectiveness of these systems is the penetration of our vehicle fleet. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid scheme for the supply of electricity from the coal mines in the community. i hope that this will become a consumer right for all citizens in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much, also for the good cooperation and the report he has presented. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her words at the beginning, because it was an initiative of parliament and we hope that the commission will follow suit. of course the human is important. but it's about the interplay between vehicle behavior and infrastructure, it's not just about better vehicles. that is what the report makes clear. of course, the man can be supported, but he cannot be left out, he retains responsibility. that's why automatic emergency brake assist systems that also recognize pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists are very, very important. and of course we want the assistants to keep the speed limits. they also need to intervene actively to save lives. it is not just a regulation that can be abandoned at will, but the technical possibilities must be exploited. we've been working on the blind spot in the turn for 15 years. we know it's about the bigger mirrors, and then they always say, in 10 or 15 years. in any case, the blind spot must be eliminated when turning and replaced by a direct line of sight. this is very important. it's also been said before: the distraction. i was with dekra last year. there was a basketball movie playing. the audience was given the task of seeing if everyone had been to the ball. in between, an orangutan was running across the field, and 90 percent of the audience didn't see the orangutan because they were just looking at the ball. that means distraction is absolutely critical to safety. the human factor is really crucial. alcohol and drugs were mentioned. this is important, of course, and it should be prohibited by law. but also by control, because where a law is not controlled, the law is superfluous. we've drawn up this draft. the commission is now in charge and i am very grateful to the commissioner for the support she has given us. we don't want to wait a year - you said in the coming months - that this will happen, that this will be implemented throughout europe, because we want to save lives. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. we also think of the loved ones who suffer for years afterward. that is why we must do something about road safety. this report is the first major step forward. we hope that this will be implemented as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, we take note of your clear request from to accelerate the work. the transport ministers of the member states have already reconfirmed their commitment to improving road safety. this is evident from the very ambitious valletta declaration that was unanimously adopted by transport ministers in march this year. notably they called on the commission to enhance the protection of road users, and especially vulnerable road users, by ensuring the deployment of new safety features for vehicles. this is what we are doing. the commission is working hard to adopt the proposal to amend the general safety regulation and the pedestrian safety regulation. our objective is to do this as part of the third mobility package in the first half of next year, but this is not all. in the same package we will also present a proposal to improve infrastructure safety. you rightly highlight in your report that we need to improve the state of road infrastructure to increase its safety. but before i conclude, please allow me to address some of your comments. on driver distraction monitoring, this is indeed on our radar. we have determined that this will be a cost—effective measure to include in the package of measures, so you can look forward to that. on proper tyre pressure, tyre pressure monitoring has been mandatory for all new passenger cars sold since 2014, but light and heavy commercial vehicles, as well as buses, are currently not subject to tyre pressure monitoring requirements. the commission report suggests that tyre pressure monitoring should also become mandatory in light and heavy commercial vehicles and buses. i hope i can count on your support. on medical prescriptions, this is a perfect example of the need to raise awareness through appropriate training courses and information campaigns. member states certainly need to work on those issues. please encourage them. we will only succeed if member states also adopt an integrated approach. on infrastructure safety, let me restress that this topic will also be addressed in our third mobility package to be adopted in the first half of next year. our objective is to approach road safety in a very comprehensive, holistic manner. but the good news is – and this is worth mentioning – that we have also engaged our neighbouring countries, including the six western balkan countries, turkey and the eastern partnership countries, to join us in our efforts in an active manner because we travel in our neighbouring countries as well. on affordability, the cost-effectiveness of each specific safety device and technology is a key element of our preparatory work. our impact assessment will consider, in particular, the impact on consumers. the affordability of the mandated technologies is evidently a must. all of this will be accompanied by a document setting out our vision for the future framework for road safety post—2020, and key measures that we consider indispensable to reverse the stagnating trend. allow me to point out one more time that road safety is a shared responsibility. some of the issues you highlighted should be addressed at national and regional level but, when it comes to leading the world with a highly ambitious and effective approach to improve road safety across the board, you can rest assured that the commission will make every effort needed. i certainly treat road safety as a top priority when it comes to my portfolio. this is why we added road safety as an important part of the spring mobility package, where it will be addressed in a very systemic way. i can only hope that this will be a sufficient push to see statistics on road fatalities and serious injuries substantially decreasing again. thank you for a constructive cooperation, in the future as well. finally, let me thank mr koch once again and thank all of you that we care so much together.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner bulc, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we had an interesting, lively and purposeful debate. i would like to thank all those who took part in it, but especially mr ferber, who spontaneously spoke for me at short notice. i would also like to thank all those who have given me the courage, the support and the guidance in the committee, with their suggestions and amendments. i would like to thank my assistant, cezara petruc. driver assistance systems are very powerful. but they can't do everything. especially not letting cars drive themselves. this is why road users should be aware of their limitations. i would recommend that drivers of vehicles with driver assistance systems familiarize themselves with the possibilities and limitations of these systems. physical laws cannot override these systems either. i would advise all motorists: please remain attentive, keep your hands on the wheel and, for example, do not test the emergency braking system unnecessarily. because driver assistance systems are not toys, but assisting passengers in emergency situations. i also recommend that all member states work even more closely on an eu-wide accident data statistics system, which also includes a list of injuries and those involved in accidents. this is the only way to identify targeted measures that actually improve road safety, such as driver assistance systems. the eu commission has proposed 19 measures as part of the update of the regulation on general vehicle safety. in a consultation which ended on 22 october, it sought the views of stakeholders, including in particular private individuals and local authorities. i look forward to the results which she intends to publish next year as part of the revision of the general safety regulation. we should, by a large majority, send the european commission important information on vehicle safety tomorrow, so that we can prevent more accidents and save lives as quickly as possible. because every person who dies on the streets of europe is one too many.
blue-card question. – ms dodds, just a short question. i think you come from northern ireland, is that right? you have had war in ireland between christians. how does this link up with the war within christianity?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. persecution of christians: four days ago, nine christians were shot dead during a mass in nigeria. in early november, a suicide bomber attacked a church service in texas, killing 26 people, many of them children. on saturday, china expelled hundreds of christians from the country. at the end of october, vandals invaded the bremen martin church and devastated it. this is just a small, recent selection. the new world persecution index from open doors lists over 200 million severely persecuted christians in 50 mostly islamic countries. we all have to speak out. i thank ján figeľ for his work as eu commissioner for religious freedom. i also thank katharina von schnurbein for her efforts. i would also like the jamaica coalition in berlin to create a government representative for religious freedom. i wish all eu countries would do that. i want us to get on with it and stop looking. discrimination on grounds of religion is a daily tragedy which we as europeans cannot accept - not in europe, not in the world. let's use our power to stop this!
the commission has already done so. one of the biggest problems for lakes and oceans is the high levels of nitrogen and phosphate that humans have created. they cause excessive algal growth, which damages the delicate neptunus grass in particular. but of course, rising sea temperatures are also partly to blame. much of the world's seagrass meadows have already been destroyed in recent decades, with massive impacts on biodiversity. we must act now to preserve marine biodiversity. what can we do? the pollution of rivers and seas by nitrogen and phosphate must be drastically reduced through stricter legislation and better control mechanisms, because if the sea is lost, so will humanity. we cannot yet protect the oceans and their inhabitants from the ignorance of man, which unfortunately knows no bounds. it just takes political will.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in western cameroon, a genocide is about to begin. since late 2016, violence has escalated, driven by president biya and the government. the conflict has further escalated in october when at least 20 english-speaking minority demonstrators were shot by soldiers during a symbolic proclamation of the republic of ambazonia: state of emergency, mobile phone traffic suspended, several dozen protesters arrested, well over a hundred killed by military force. in the news, the catholic st. martin de porres hospital in the city of njinikom has had its license revoked. many people shot by security forces were treated there. some 20,000 anglophones fled the violence to nigeria. we demand explicitly no violence against the english-speaking minority. we demand a clear message from the eu, france and the uk: no european country - especially not old colonial powers - can be blamed for the violation of human rights! together with the hessian free voters association, i am calling for a blue helmet operation in the region. we need effective arms export controls and international approaches to protect civilians in such civil war zones.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we're dealing with another major leak, the fourth such leak in just two years. we had the luxembourg leaks, we had the panama papers, we had the bahamas papers, and now we have the paradise papers. every time a scandal like this comes up, and you start to desensitize yourself to the word "scandal", you start to feel that it's not so scandalous anymore, because one leak after another, you say, "well, maybe this was all legal". we must not turn a blind eye to this. if this was all legal, the people who run it wouldn't be running it on any caribbean island. then it would be hard to have everything going on in secret somewhere. we have to say very clearly that even if it is technically legal, it was against the spirit of the laws because it was this kind of secrecy that was being practiced. and it's not just that things may be formally legal, but it goes beyond the realm of aggressive tax avoidance into the realm of tax evasion, into money laundering, into corruption, into terrorist financing, and it goes, as we've seen, even into the realm of targeted political murder. in malta, for example, whistleblowers who have revealed something like this have to die for it. we must now say: we've seen the tip of the iceberg here before. that's what they say. we saw it in the luxembourg leaks, exposed by journalists. we saw it in the panama papers -- uncovered by journalists. we saw it in the bahamas papers, exposed by journalists. we've just seen it in the paradise papers, uncovered by journalists. and you have to ask yourself, why is this constantly being uncovered by journalists, and what is the tax investigation in our countries actually doing? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. why is this not being exposed by the authorities? why are millions of pages of documents constantly being leaked by journalists and not by the administrations of our member states, which are the ones who are actually responsible for it? the commission is not prepared to accept this. what you said is certainly all correct transparency and information sharing and blacklists , but we have to make sure that tax criminals are caught! that is the essential objective to be achieved.
i have to say, madam president, recent publications show that tax avoidance, tax evasion, tax fraud and money laundering continue to be commonplace. i do not want to talk about the personal responsibility of tax evaders who are the stepping stones of a society of solidarity. i would like to challenge the business models of those countries which have set up tax havens and deliberately undermine the international tax system. there are plenty of examples in the european union: the netherlands, malta, luxembourg - all of them are included in the study, not just third countries! that is why we are calling for a paradigm shift. the commission has always concluded double taxation agreements. we want a minimum tax treaty! the commission has already made some progress, but it is very, very modest. that's why we need to discuss the basics. i always hear that tax competition is healthy. the question of fair taxation and acceptance of minimum tax rules is not a departure from sound tax competition, but the necessary basis in times of globalisation and new powerful corporations in the digital age. the responsibility of the member states is therefore not only to improve cooperation between the authorities, to introduce reporting obligations, to draw up a blacklist of non-cooperative third countries, but we must also bring order to the european union itself. that is why the european parliament has adopted its measures. it is not enough to say: 'it is the others who are doing it, but we must start.' we cannot accept in the long term that multinational corporations and wealthy individuals evade their solidarity tax obligations and that states have no choice but to tax labour and consumption more heavily. this is the common responsibility we face and i ask everyone to support us in this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. no, we shouldn't be surprised anymore. after all the scandals, we should at best be surprised by those who are surprised. mr president, you are a diplomat. they say that much of what we're learning about the paradise papers may have been legal. but they cannot rule out that some of these may have contributed to tax evasion. mr president, that is too diplomatic. this diplomatic language is not part of the solution, it is part of the problem. we have to be clear that these constructs were created to avoid taxes. that's why there are those we can find there who are actually - as the house agrees - defrauding people who pay their taxes properly. that's why we have to go a little harder. it is not enough to assume that tax evasion and avoidance may be involved. no, we have to break this cartel of silence. it's a cartel of silence of the companies that are being favored. it's a cartel of the super-rich who cheat on taxes. but it is also a cartel of financial bureaucracies which must be broken once and for all. mr moscovici, you have the support of the whole house. it is urgent to ensure that the fight against tax avoidance becomes a europe-wide, global fight. it's the only way to get justice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as we are discussing this, we are discussing the day on which we were actually going to vote on the reform of the money laundering directive in the final trilogue. the commission launched this initiative a year ago with the panama papers. parliament is in a strong position to draw conclusions from the panama papers. what's going on today? the council, the presidency of the council, has not even been given a mandate to reach a bad compromise with parliament today, let alone draw serious consequences. today's trilogue will fail - as many other proposals by mr moscovici are currently on hold - because the council and key member states are not prepared to take serious steps against tax avoidance and money laundering. the question is therefore: when will you change this line in the council? when will the member states change this line? and for us here in parliament the question is: when will we stop complaining about this and are we prepared to use our powers to force the council and the member states to stop this blockade of tax justice? this is the measure of our seriousness in this parliament. i am not going to go into detail. we greens are prepared to take serious action together with you against the council and the member states in the interests of europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – the key question here, mr coburn, is the following: the uk and its related offshore territories are offering their sovereignty to the dirty money of the world with zero tax rates. now, in the proceedings of brexit, we have the chance to tell the uk very clearly: if you want to get good business with us, you must change this stealing of taxpayers’ money, which has been going on so far and which your government was able to protect inside the eu. in the future this deep dirty business will be over, mr coburn.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate this morning has shown - as the work of the taxe 1 and taxe 2 special investigation committees, as in the panama papers committee of inquiry - that tax havens exist not only outside the borders of the european union but also within it. and individual states in this union have made it their business model to steal other states' taxes. this leads to the very problem which was described this morning, namely that the member states themselves are not making the right progress, that there is no will to take decisive action against tax evasion and money laundering. it is therefore our task as a parliament to set the counterpoint here, to join the european commission in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering. we have shown that our pressure here in the house can do something, can get member states to act. that is why the consequence of the paradise papers for our work must be: now, more than ever! if we really want to drive tax evaders out of tax havens, then we must now work with the european commission to win back the member states across party lines and show this parliament that it is serious about fighting tax evasion and money laundering.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, everything we read about in the paradise papers now seems like a déjà vu: tricky tax-saving models, letterbox firms, shady law firms specializing in legal, semi-legal and even illegal tax practices. we've known all this for a long time. we have had two special committees, one inquiry committee and the practices are well known. we're gonna have more leaks because other law firms are gonna get hacked eventually. of course, it is not particularly surprising that appleby is particularly concerned with the british overseas territories. that's based on the clientele that this law firm represents. it's not about waiting for the next data leak, it's about finally taking action. we know the mechanisms, and that is why, commissioner, i hope we will get the blacklist of tax havens and money laundering strongholds so that we can finally get to work. i would also like to call for an examination of the problem of tax loopholes within the european union. it is not possible that there should be unfair tax competition between member states within the european union. i can only encourage the member states to take up and implement a large number of proposals which we have now also worked out in the panama committee of inquiry. it is not possible that tax benefits are granted here to the detriment of other member states. i say quite clearly: if you want to point the finger at other countries, you must have cleaned up your own house. otherwise, he's not credible. that is why, commissioner, i also expect that appropriate proposals will be made here so that we can finally solve our internal problems within the european union and not always point the finger at other jurisdictions outside the european union.
i have to say, madam president, when i think that i've already paid more taxes on this cup of tea than an international sports corporation on its entire turnover, i cook. and this is not an isolated case: from queen to facebook, from george soros to uber, from shakira to ebay -- they're all named in the paradise papers. over €60 billion is lost to the eu every year, about a fifth of all corporate taxes. this can't be happening! unlike the panama papers, the paradise papers are almost entirely legal. legal tax tricks? that's enough! how long will governments wait and tolerate such nasty cross-border tricks by corporations and the super-rich at the expense of the middle class and good taxpayers? my appeal is not to talk about paradise, the tunnel of tax evasion is already starting in malta, the netherlands, ireland and the small isle of man. it is up to the politicians to drain the tax swamps and create real tax justice. now, not until the next tea time.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the reform of the consumer protection cooperation was an opportunity to update an important and already well-established system of cooperation of national consumer protection authorities. parliament went into trilogue with a strong position on much-needed aspects. consumers who have been harmed need compensation. dieselgate has shown that we cannot leave this up to the discretion of the companies. illicit profits would need to be restituted. the trilogue outcome we are debating today unfortunately falls short on these key points of the original commission proposal. on top of that, it establishes overreaching internet blocking measures that are neither proportionate nor suitable for the goal of protecting consumers and come without mandatory judicial oversight. i am asking you not to just sign off on the trilogue outcome today but rather to please support the plenary amendments that reinstate the parliament position on these critical issues, in order to really provide an added value for citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think i should first of all thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs involved in this difficult dossier. i think that the commission's initial proposal was very ambitious. i think there is general agreement in the european parliament that we urgently need to ensure that the enforcement of european consumer standards, european consumer laws, is improved in the european union, and as has just been pointed out, that we are also doing better across borders. in the end, of course, in many member states, closing a website must be a decision of a judge and cannot simply be an administrative act. in this respect, i believe that the compromise we have reached here is a really good basis for ensuring that the european commission can better enforce consumer rights in the member states in europe , on the one hand, but on the other hand we have also succeeded in preserving the existing structures in the member states however different they may be in detail . so i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this. i expect that we shall find a very large majority in favour of this proposal today.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to propose that the chamber votes on the amendments to the draft legislative act first, in order to give the members the opportunity to reinstate parliament’s position on fundamental rights, safeguards against website blocking and a stronger position on consumer rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to say clearly why we are here today, and why we are here today again after such short notice. the last discussion focused, also in the response by the council and the commission, very much on the precise death and murder of daphne caruana galizia, but we did not discuss seriously the wider issues. today again, the council has not answered the questions concerning the rule of law we have raised in our resolution, and therefore i was very disappointed by your response. while the commission today has given much clearer answers than last time, i would like to stress that several issues are still open and, mr timmermans, i hope your notebook is open for these issues. how is it possible that the head of the financial services authority, mr bannister, is, at the same time, the vice-president of the financial development agency of malta? this is basically saying that the boss of the supervisors is at the same time the boss of those who should develop the sector. therefore, the commission should take action to clarify what the status of a financial supervisor is, and what conflicts of interest in that area mean. malta has recently had big financial and economic success with online gambling and i would like to say on behalf of our group that there is nothing wrong with online gambling as such, but there is a problem if the cross-border provision of these services is based on hyper-low taxation, and secondly, on the illegal provision across borders through the internet, which allows financial companies to make at least eur 1 billion just for the transfers to the respective societies. so the question is: isn’t there a hole in the application of national and european law in the area of online gambling? there were also important questions about the buying of voters in the last maltese elections, and there is the question why do nexia bt and pilatus bank still have licences in malta? so there are serious issues which were not on your list, mr timmermans. will you commit today to look into these subjects and take seriously the questions that parliament is raising?
i have to say, madam president, there's been a terrible murder in malta. but the subject of this debate is not this murder, which we all condemn, but the subject of this debate is the question of the rule of law in malta. mr engel has done a very good job, mr sant has just given a different opinion. in these two speeches - and i hope in many others to come - the crucial questions are asked: what is the state of the rule of law in malta? what about the rule of law in a state that simply sells its citizenship? just as the catholic church once sold its offices, so citizenship is being sold! and then you hear in the debate that things are going on in spain, which i didn't know until now. we must ask: what about the libel laws in malta that are alleged to restrict press freedom? we must ask ourselves: what is this pilatus bank doing in malta and are appropriate limits being set for it? these are the questions that need to be asked here. does malta still have the power to enforce its laws, and are the laws designed to meet our requirements in the european union? that's the issue of the debate, not the conviction of murder.
i have to say, madam president, while we are discussing the rule of law in malta, the prime minister is selling passports in hong kong. he calls it "to promote investment and job creation in malta". that is precisely the point: the arrogant way in which the socialist government in malta has treated the pana committee, the public, the journalists. that shows there's a lot wrong with this. the self-healing capacity in malta is not sufficient to comply with european law. the proud maltese people are counting on us, on our help and, mr vice-president of the commission, on your help too. it is not enough to say, 'we have checked all this.' they must also re-examine the conditions of accession 13 years ago. in the morning the socialist leader sheds crocodile tears over the paradise papers, and in the afternoon the whole s&d group is either absent or defending the absence of the rule of law in malta as normal and distracting. this can't be the division of labor. as long as the socialists do not look at their member muscat's finger, he will not give up his arrogant behaviour. and we have an obligation to look at malta: what is system? what is government failure? what is the european commission's failure? how can we help? we have had the experience that after the investigation the police chief has been dismissed, the attorney general has been sacked, the results of the investigation against members of the government have never been published, the proceedings have not been completed, there are people in responsible positions in the judiciary who leave us with the impression that the separation of powers is not properly guaranteed. and, mr vice-president, malta also needs the massive support of the commission and parliament. we'll deliver that. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i think it is a little presumptuous to say that we are all accusing maltese society here in the european parliament. we are not suing maltese society, we want to help the women, men, citizens of malta to get rid of corrupt people, organized criminals, terrorists, black money, tax evaders, black money and whatever else and to get organized structures. that is to say, we want to give support to the people and not to those who have made the system into a filthy system. the sale of passports to dubious persons criminals must be banned in future. doubtful sources of funds, doubtful flows of funds, which, for example, daphne caruana galizia has been researching - there should have been help and support for her, the relevant institutions should have helped her with the investigations, and she should have been given protection by malta. that would have been necessary, not to attack them as well. it is also necessary that this government should have behaved with arrogance in a panamanian committee, not to provide information, not to show any willingness to cooperate. this is not the malta that wanted to join. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want to help the people of malta to have a healthy state, not protect a socialist government. the socialists are always agitated about hungary or something else, but when it comes to their government, the whole room is suddenly very quiet. please demand equal conditions for all.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. we are supporting the work of the commission, even if we have our differences from time to time. but in this case, 100 per cent support, because we do want the multilateral trading system to be strengthened. only if we can continue to work at a rules-based level can we guarantee that trade is conducive to development. that's why we're so strong behind it, that we'll have a success in buenos aires as well. we need a clear signal that overfishing of the seas through illicit subsidies is ending. we also need to send a clear signal that food storage, to ensure food safety, is a longer-term solution. we also need to look at how we can integrate the sustainable development goals, as well as the paris agreement on climate change and also the issue of trade and gender balance. these are the most pressing problems we need to tackle multilaterally. so it cannot be that out of these 164 countries, one or two countries are helping to sabotage this system. i find it scandalous that the united states is trying to challenge the system by not nominating judges to the appeals panel. i find it scandalous that the united states refuses to think about concrete progress, and refuses even to put a text on the table at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that will be the central task, that this one country does not get away with it, but that we can make progress together.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the world is changing. the wto is changing. the multilateral trade is facing enormous challenges. global value-adding processes, the transformation of traditional commodity production, data-driven production in industry and agriculture, services and new regulations increasingly shape the agenda of trade and economic cooperation across countries and regional cooperation structures. the old trading powers and the usa have already been mentioned are fighting off new competitors. the globalisation of productive forces has brought about a change in the world economy. at the same time, all wto member states must deal with the fact that they have committed themselves to the un's 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the keyword is: the fight against poverty. how can we deal with it responsibly in the interests of citizens on all continents? this is the agenda for december in buenos aires - nothing more and nothing less. this wto ministerial meeting will only move forward if the old commitments of the doha round are finally met. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu must deliver. perhaps the parliamentary conference can help.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have always stressed the importance of common global and multilateral trade rules. at the same time, the eu is racing ahead and concluding trade agreements with only one or a few trading partners. in this way it weakens the chances of agreement at the world trade organization and at the same time of global agreements in which developing countries can also take part. they are not involved in these bilateral agreements. now, my most important concern: the conclusion of the doha round is of particular importance for the forthcoming 11th world trade organisation conference. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force. if we don't get this done soon and get fair rules, we're going to create more refugees, more poverty in these countries. and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it would be a fatal message to these developing countries if we voted the resolution to be voted on tomorrow as proposed, namely that we start negotiations on electronic commerce immediately, without the doha round. please think of the developing countries!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the aim of the eastern partnership is to offer our neighbours ukraine, georgia, moldova, armenia, azerbaijan and hopefully soon belarus political dialogue, economic cooperation and support for their reforms. the summit must not therefore become an exclusive review. we have put a lot of effort and work into the afet committee, as can be seen by the fact that there is a great deal of agreement between the groups. we have done this because we believe it is important that we send a united signal that we want to continue and develop this eastern partnership. i am very much looking forward to seeing how the council will deal with our proposals, especially since the summit declaration has already been written. yes, article 49 of the european treaties is applicable. but to be fair, we must also say, in order not to give rise to false hopes, that we are far, far from it. yet, that is no reason to be discouraged. we want to contribute to the summit and show that our report has also provided attractive longer-term models for an enlarged eastern partnership. accession to the customs union, energy union, digital union, schengen area, and the gradual abolition of roaming charges all indicate a wide range of ways in which this eastern partnership can and should be further developed. this applies first of all to the associated countries. but we also agree that the way must be open for others to follow within the eastern partnership. we recommend that the commission should be strongly involved so that multinational or multilateral financial institutions such as the european investment bank can be more involved. trust funds of various kinds are also conceivable, as we have shown. but we must also make it very clear that we want the eastern partnership and that we have ideas for developing it intensively. the implementation of the agreed reforms is a prerequisite for this. we cannot be satisfied with this implementation everywhere so far. the summit must therefore not only talk about what has been achieved, but also clearly identify what remains to be done and where schoolwork needs to be done. it is not a question of regulations which we make in brussels. each country is free to make its own decisions. no one has to do a favour to commissioner hahn or president juncker or mrs mogherini. but the results of our cooperation must be felt by the people on the ground. the results of our cooperation are important for the citizens of the partner countries, and that is why it is important that we not only talk about infrastructure, reducing socioeconomic disparities and visa-free travel, but also about, for example, the fight against corruption. it is also important for our fellow eu citizens who want to know who we are actually benefiting from our actions. they don't want to hear that a few oligarchs got richer. they want to hear that something's moving in the system. let me just say one final thing, i know this is always critical here: relations with russia are also important for the economic and political stability of our eastern neighbours. the soviet union no longer exists, and everyone must get used to it. but a person who has no regard for his neighbors and their interests will not be able to live in peace with them in the long run.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i wanted to participate in this debate because the eastern partnership summit is coming up and i would like to share with you some thoughts and to listen to your recommendations. the fifth eastern partnership summit on 24 november will be the key event in the eastern partnership since the last summit in riga in 2015. i do not have to underline the importance the estonian presidency attaches to this event and indeed to the whole policy of eastern partnership. in riga, we reaffirmed our strong engagement and our firm determination to pursue closer, tailor-made relations with the six partner countries. this summit, which will be held for the first time in brussels, will build on that. it will provide an opportunity to reaffirm the eu’s united and strong commitment to its eastern partners and project a message of confidence. it will also highlight the value of the eastern partnership for citizens of the european union and the partner countries, while providing them with tangible solutions and concrete benefits. the summit will take stock of developments across the four priority areas of cooperation: economic development and market opportunities; strengthening institutions and good governance; connectivity, energy efficiency, environment and climate change; and, fourthly, mobility and people-to-people contacts. there has been much progress since the riga summit. association agreements between the eu and georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine have fully entered into force. significant reform efforts in georgia and ukraine have enabled visa liberalisation for the citizens of these countries. relations with belarus, armenia and azerbaijan are being enhanced on a tailor-made basis, either through the pursuit of new framework agreements or through new coordination arrangements. the eastern partnership has also further advanced on the basis of the revised european neighbourhood policy and the eu global strategy. however, the summit will also have a forward-looking and result-oriented agenda and will provide an opportunity to discuss ways of strengthening bilateral, multilateral and sectoral cooperation. the council is currently working hard on the summit joint declaration, with the aim of reiterating the inclusive, consolidating and forward-looking nature of the eastern partnership. on the basis of the 20 deliverables for 2020 prepared by the european external action service (eeas) and the commission, in cooperation with member states and partner countries, the summit is expected to provide guidance, in particular, on the four priority areas of cooperation with their tangible and visible impact on people’s lives. the list is long. it includes the fight against corruption, the modernisation of public administrations, improved transport and energy connections, digitalisation, greener economies, trade and investment promotion, support for small and middle-sized enterprises, educational exchanges and youth empowerment. several important events have taken place in the run-up to the summit, demonstrating that the eastern partnership goes beyond inter-governmental relations to involve civil society, media, businesses, youth and other stakeholders. i would like to recall the following events that have contributed to preparing the discussion among the summit participants: the third eastern partnership youth forum in june in warsaw; the second eastern partnership media conference in september in kiev; the eastern partnership civil society conference and the business forum in tallinn in october. in addition, the estonian presidency organised an e-partnership conference at the beginning of october in tallinn, as well as four ministerial-level meetings: on justice and home affairs, transport, and the digital economy as well as a post-gymnich informal lunch for foreign ministers, devoted to common challenges in the security field. as you see, the preparations for the eastern partnership summit go hand in hand with the activities undertaken by the european parliament when preparing and adopting the report containing the recommendations to the council, the commission and the eeas. the council agrees that further actions need to be built on the previous commitments and on citizens’ expectations, and they need to provide new impetus for the future of the partnership. last but not least, we will work to ensure that the visibility of the eu’s engagement in the eastern partnership demonstrates that we are stronger together. the eastern partnership is based on a free choice of the parties involved and is aimed at promoting prosperity, stability and good governance without affecting third parties. the eastern partnership is the only eu policy in which we state that the policy is not directed against anyone – and, of course, this is true. bearing that in mind, we also need to recognise that the eastern partnership has become part of the eu’s policy towards russia. in march 2016, the eu foreign ministers adopted five guiding principles for the eu’s policy towards russia: one of the principles is strengthening relations with the eu’s eastern partners, and rightly so. active communication about the summit and its objectives is being coordinated with eu member states and the six partners, with the aim of providing factual information and countering disinformation. i would like to thank the honourable members for their attention, i will listen carefully to their recommendations and i will convey them to my colleagues in the council.
member of the commission. – mr president, this discussion is, of course, extremely timely in the light of the summit that starts in a week, but, as the president has indicated, the summit has already started in a way. there have been a number of related side events involving young people, media, civil society, business, etcetera, because the whole point is to engage broadly, putting citizens at the centre of this partnership. our engagement goes well beyond governments and, as you know, it has a very strong parliamentary dimension. the euronest parliamentary assembly ordinary session took place two weeks ago in kiev, and i know that both the plenary and the various working groups were conducted in a very constructive atmosphere, and the message of the euronest bureau was adopted unanimously. that has sent a very powerful message to those involved in preparing for the summit. we welcome the attention that the european parliament is paying to this, and i would like to thank the two rapporteurs and acknowledge all the work that has been done in the various committees and groups. as the report highlights, the summit is an opportunity not only to build on achievements to date but also to inject new dynamism into relations with the partnership countries. we are building on the existing policy network and particularly the global strategy for foreign and security policy, the european neighbourhood policy (enp) review and previous summit declarations. however, let me also stress, as your report does, the importance of the 20 deliverables for 2020. this is an ambitious programme aiming at very concrete achievements. the report by the committee on foreign affairs takes into account some of the key elements that have been identified for the summit: firstly, supporting an ambitious investment for the trans-european transport core network; secondly, increasing political ownership of energy efficiency; thirdly, supporting smes and their access to finance; fourthly, paving the way for a reduction in roaming tariffs among partner countries; fifthly, boosting trade opportunities with the eu and among the partner countries; sixthly, providing broad and targeted support to grass-root ngos; seventhly, supporting young people, and especially addressing youth unemployment through entrepreneurship education; and, finally, stepping up strategic communication through a comprehensive approach based on the four priorities agreed in riga and the new eastern partnership visual identity. these initiatives are all in line with the 20 deliverables. our priorities are perfectly aligned and they all stem from the most urgent needs of our citizens. we take these deliverables very seriously and we want to make sure that they are implemented in a transparent and accountable way. the recent evaluation shows that, overall, we have made good progress on our commitments, especially with respect to the milestones set for the summit. but, at the same time, each country from the eastern partnership has specific needs and specific aspirations, so differentiation is an important principle of the partnership. association agreements are now fully in place with georgia, moldova and ukraine. we have concluded negotiations for a comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement with armenia – we will sign that on the fringe of the summit – and we are negotiating a new comprehensive agreement with azerbaijan. relations with belarus are evolving through the eu-belarus coordination group. we have taken note of the proposed ‘eap+’ model contemplated in the report, seeking to offer new opportunities especially for the associated countries and, while we remain ambitious in our proposals, we must also remain realistic and preserve the inclusive nature of the eap which involves all six partners. this inclusivity is key, not only to bringing our people closer together, but also to contributing to further coordination and cooperation between the partners themselves. this has been part of the logic behind the whole partnership from its inception and, for these reasons, we believe the focus should be on implementing existing commitments reflected in the various agreements and documents and the 20 deliverables, as i mentioned. in doing that, the eastern partnership should be taken forward not in isolation but in conjunction with other global commitments: the sustainable development goals, the paris agreement, etcetera. sustainable development in the eastern partnership matters to the european union. we all realise that our neighbour’s strength is our own strength, so our neighbours’ security and stability are very much linked to our own security. the fact that five out of six partners suffer from protracted conflicts is a reflection of the challenging security situation that we have in our neighbourhood. our eastern partners are indeed experiencing at first-hand the challenges of the european security architecture, as the foreign affairs committee report highlights. the eastern partnership was never designed as a conflict-resolution mechanism, but it has a unique framework for building confidence and progressively strengthening the resilience of states and societies. we believe that the resolution of conflict in the region requires respect for international law and that peace will come in the framework of agreed negotiated formats. but peace also requires good governance and democracy, better economic opportunities for all, better infrastructure and closer people-to-people contact. this is what the eastern partnership is about and this is what we will highlight at the summit next week – not a partnership against anybody, as the presidency said, but a partnership for the economy and for trade, a partnership for resilience and good governance, a partnership for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the summit next week is essential to achieve practical progress on all these issues. i know this house is very committed and we count on your support not only in the run-up to the summit but also afterwards, to help in implementing and moving forward.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the eastern partnership summit in ten days' time is indeed about finding new ways of achieving the objectives of article 8 of the treaty on european union. it is about building special relations with our neighbours and at the same time creating an area of prosperity based on the values of our union. i would like to stress, as the commissioner has just done, the positive aspects of the association agreements with moldova, georgia and ukraine, which have come into force in the last 18 months. nevertheless, - and as everyone in the chamber knows, the six countries concerned - our partnership is hampered by regional tensions of varying intensity and by serious deficits in democracy and the rule of law. to increase the willingness to reform in the eastern partnership countries, the european union should therefore do so more clearly than it has done so far formulate requirements that are more concrete and measurable, better support civil society in the partner countries and, in particular, apply the principle more for more and less for less more consistently. these are the main points in the report by mr andrikienė and mr fleckenstein. it's a good report. it was adopted by a large majority in the committee on foreign affairs. we share the expectation that these points will also be taken into account in the conclusions of 24 november.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it seems that the term of office of your colleague hahn will be marked by the fact that he will have to shape a failed policy. unfortunately, i have to draw a different balance sheet than many of my colleagues. two years ago, the eastern neighbourhood policy should have been geared to reality. that is not the case today, despite the association agreements and the more for more. some target countries are moving towards alternative integration projects. the associated ukraine and moldova are experiencing political stagnation or regressive social developments. the export of eu wheat to these countries is politically dead. the hopes of the people of these countries for the eu to support social, political and economic transformation for all members of society have been dashed. the european parliament had recently begun to press the commission to finally impose binding conditions on eu services. but today's resolution throws this approach overboard: blank cheques in cash and benefits are being distributed to oligarchs again. the forthcoming summit will not bring about the positive changes which the rapporteurs, the council and the commission have announced here and which sound good.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to say again, after the speech by mr scholz, that it is a great good fortune for the citizens of the european union that the countries in our eastern neighbourhood are choosing the path to the west and the path to the european union. democracy and the rule of law in our neighbourhood are the best guarantee that we too can continue our peaceful and stable path in the european union. i would also like to point out once again, after your speech, that in my view the reforms to which the countries in our neighbourhood - our partners - have committed themselves in the association agreement are taking place under much more difficult conditions than the reforms which have taken place in the baltic states or the warsaw pact countries - including your own country. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we're not making it easy on our neighbors anymore. we make it much harder for those who have it much harder, much harder. and that is why i would like to make a specific appeal to the summit, also as the chairman of euronest: don't be such a little girl. appreciate this decision, which is basically for democracy and the rule of law! and keep the doors to the european union open. because these reforms that are now coming, without that perspective, make it much more difficult. and russia has done everything possible, putin has done everything possible to make this process, which the states have voluntarily chosen, which they have elected, difficult. it is a very important point in the european parliament's resolution, which points out that we must also help countries to find a way to deal with putin against occupation, against annexation and against these so-called frozen conflicts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for a breakthrough. it is good that we have tailor-made programmes for the six countries. because we accept that their level of ambition is different. if someone doesn't want to sign an ambitious dcfta, we certainly won't respond with green men and tanks. four of the six countries certainly have the aspirations of becoming democratic european states that function normally internally. we already support this extensively: the establishment of the rule of law and the fight against corruption are the main priorities. let us continue to encourage all political and civil society actors in these efforts. i expect the council to take note of the wider ambitions of some member states and not to fall back on the wording already agreed. the success of the democratic and economic development of these countries is in our own interest. in the long term, however, we can only guarantee this if we also open up the prospect of accession to those who wish to do so, as provided for in the treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eastern partnership is in a difficult phase of development. this is partly because the necessary reform process in our eastern neighbour is proceeding very slowly. the fight against corruption and the establishment of the rule of law have stalled in ukraine, for example. the report rightly calls for financial support for our eastern partners to be linked to concrete reform requirements. financial aid must not be a disguised support for oligarchs, but must promote the reform process that must benefit the entire population. this means that the financial aid may only be paid out if the conditions are met. i regret that this has not always been the case in the past, as the court of auditors has found in an audit report on ukraine that financial assistance was paid out despite non-compliance with anti-corruption requirements. i do not think that this should happen again in the future. the fact that the commitments are serious must also be made clear at the summit and must always be the guiding principle of the commission's practice in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, it has been a very long debate, but it shows the engagement and the high expectations that you all have, not only for the summit per se, but also for the whole eastern partnership agreement and how it should be developed. as was said, this is a partnership for cooperation, it is a partnership for trade, it is a partnership for people-to-people contact, and it involves a lot of different projects. different countries have chosen different ways of incorporating, but they are all part of a very big network of different projects where we can support them on their way towards a stronger rule of law, fighting corruption, increasing the involvement of civil society, free press, and so on. this is not easy. many of you know that these transitions do not happen overnight. also, all six countries joined this partnership voluntarily and i am a bit surprised that some of you think you know what is in their best interests better than their governments themselves do. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteurs. you have done very good work on this, and i think the resolution is a useful contribution to the reflection on the future of the eastern partnership – for the summit, as i said, but also beyond that. eight years after it was launched, it now has an established framework and it has reached cruising speed, but it has a lot of untapped potential. the focus needs to be on implementing the commitments that we have made for ourselves in making sure that all countries can benefit from the opportunities that are there. in this endeavour, we must be realistic and ambitious all at once, and i hope that the summit next week will convey a sense of unity and confidence in this partnership. i would like to pay tribute to the important role that you play as a parliament and in the euronest parliamentary assembly, and i hope that you will continue to support the legislative process that accompanies the reform effort in our partnership countries.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for the opportunity to take part in this valuable discussion, and my thanks to the rapporteurs for their invaluable work. i am sure that the summit on 24 november will reaffirm the eu’s united and strong commitment to the eastern partnership and will also provide guidance on how to strengthen this policy even further. i want to thank sincerely all those speakers who commended the estonian presidency’s commitment to this policy of ours. it really means the world to me. there were many contributions that showed clearly how much work still needs to be done in stabilising our neighbourhood, but there were also many comments about history, and indeed about geopolitics. the eastern partnership is a geopolitical issue. there is currently no consensus among the member states about the membership prospects for the eastern partners. meanwhile, we need to do our utmost to help and assist these partner countries, who have freely opted to be that, to get as close to europe as possible, and to integrate them as closely as we can into european policies, and, indeed, european bodies. it is a very simple piece of foreign policy wisdom that you want to have your neighbours as similar to you as possible. they are more predictable that way, and they are better to deal with. this very basic foreign policy wisdom applies to the eu’s neighbourhood policy as well.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm trying to save some time. i am therefore grateful to all those to whom mrs andrikienė has also expressed her gratitude, but not to myself. but i thank you for your cooperation. it was not self-evident that we had come to a denominator so quickly - sometimes not so quickly. it's a good sign for this house. secondly, i ask for caution. i do not want to go into all the details now, and i cannot do so now, because we have already talked the house down. but there's one word i'd like to say about it, and that's the word "success story". i warn you. the eastern partnership is not a success story for me to this day. we have had a government in moldova, a government of european friends, which has ruled the country almost to ruin. we find that in ukraine today, suddenly the government is going backwards again when it comes to minority rights. and we didn't do everything right, either. but i agree with all those who say: it can be a great success story if we can, so to speak, take each other at our word, if those who promise reforms actually do reform so that people in their countries know that it is a sensible thing to do, and if we also remain predictable, that is to say, on the one hand, we do not promise too much, but on the other hand, we keep our word and really support, not just in speeches here in the plenary. i'm sure most of us would. and i'm sure it's going to be a great success story.
member of the commission. – madam president, allow me to congratulate you on your first session in your new job, and i think it is also your birthday today, so let me congratulate you on that as well. my best wishes! i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cicu, for the work he has done, and all the shadow rapporteurs. we have jointly put in a lot of work on this legal text, in the trilogue and in the different committees and the groups. there has been a lot of effort and a constructive approach to the commission proposal. this legal text will introduce into our anti-dumping legislation a new method for calculating dumping on imports from any world trade organization country where there are significant distortions. this is essential in order to address the realities of today’s international trading environment and to restore a level playing field. it will ensure that european industries remain well equipped to deal with the unfair competition they may face from dumped and subsidised imports in the future, without, as the rapporteur said, placing an additional burden on them. i have repeatedly stressed the importance of free but fair trade, and this agreement endorses that view. we must be able to tackle distortions in exporting countries that affect free market principles – distortions that result in prices and costs which are not in line with reality. the new anti-dumping methodology will be country-neutral and it will deal head-on with the many distortions that we know exist in a number of exporting economies. it will also be the first time that our legislation will acknowledge the significance of social and environmental standards in the trade-defence field. this is an important development, and the efforts made by the legislature in striking the right balance here can only be praised. the speed with which this legislation was adopted is testimony to our commitment that the eu must have efficient tools to tackle unfair international trade. i would like to thank parliament again for the work it has devoted to this very complex issue.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. china's accession to the world trade organisation was an important step, and the european union made many compromises at that time. if you look at the plenary debates in the european parliament at that time, you see that even then the concern was: will china seize the moment, will china embark on economic, social and structural reforms, or will china remain a communist planned economy? the reason we are changing the law today is that the very wording of china's accession treaty to the world trade organization forces us to act. i am very grateful that the european commission has put forward a very good proposal which our colleague mr cicu has improved further with all of us in the committee on international trade. we will also be able to protect our european industry in future from unfair competition, from dumping from china and other countries. that this is not just about china, but that this is about dumping in general, that this is about fighting unfair competition in general, is clear from the fact that we are finally stopping dividing countries into market economies or non-market economies, but that we are taking a big step with this change in legislation, with this change in regulation, and simply saying: if countries are acting unfairly, if countries are introducing state-sponsored market distortions, if countries are unfairly competing, then the european commission must be able to protect our companies, our workers, our jobs and eliminate market distortions. it has not always been easy for us. but we have a very, very good point, and i am very, very grateful to the commissioner and also to mr cicu for their effective approach.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. thank you very much, madam president. when i go to a shop and want to buy an e-bike, i often see products from europe and from another non-european country with a huge price difference. i wonder if this price difference is really due to better quality or to structural dumping, i.e. being marketed at a lower cost than the production cost. we must indeed tackle this problem. if there is really structural dumping, and that includes whether state-owned enterprises are involved, whether energy is subsidized, whether company law, land law favours companies or whether energy or access to finance is subsidised, all these are factors that structurally give a competitive advantage, then we have to act. in this respect, yes, i commend the commission, and in particular cecilia malmström, for the second time today, for her intelligent proposal, which we have indeed developed further in the trilogue, to say: we look at structural dumping and make a country report accordingly and can show if we have serious problems there. and the commission will eventually get to the bottom of this and open an investigation. we have a focus on structural dumping, but it is also clear that it does not impose any additional burden on european industry. in particular, we have succeeded in including respect for workers' rights and environmental standards as criteria for the dumping calculation. it's the first time in the world that's been done, but i think it's part of the process. dumping is also when you disregard labour and environmental standards, and that has to stop. trade, but fair.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the council and parliament have agreed for the first time to punish cases of social and environmental dumping. this is a major breakthrough for which my group has been working for a long time. but let 's not forget: this legislation is primarily aimed at and pressured by our relationship with china. the legislation which is to regulate the modernisation of trade protection instruments and, in our view, environmental and social standards in general, has been stuck in negotiations for years. at the turn of the millennium, china's accession to the wto was important for the eu. they wanted political integration and big business in the chinese marketplace, and so they agreed to treat china as a market economy from 2017. today, the eu sees things differently. instead of a list of countries that are not considered to be market economies, the eu commission now produces country reports on so far, so good. so far, however, there is only one such report, a kind of "lex china". i was able to read this classified document in advance. it is a purist market economy in its purest form, which classifies every state intervention, every policy, regulatory course as a disruption of the market. if this is accepted by the wto, any industrial policy measure in an eu member state can be sued in the future. we cannot agree to that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i have the great advantage of not knowing this secret document you speak of. i therefore do not know whether i am addressing things that are in the document or not. but do you think it is intelligent to quote from a potentially confidential document in a public session of the european parliament, the true contents of which the public and this parliament will never know?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr caspary! - what are you doing? i did not quote from that document, but drew attention to this country report because it will be the basis for dealing with dumping, with possible dumping procedures in the future. in this respect, the public must also know that these country reports will be a reference document and that what is contained therein is of very wide significance. and i just want to point out that we may be circumcising ourselves in the future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the eu still exports more to other countries of the world than it imports each year. we are therefore in favour of open markets and against short-sighted protectionism. on the other hand, i also reiterate that our citizens expect to be protected against unfair practices on the world market - unfair practices in terms of environmental protection, social regulations or even tax dumping. the eu has been far too slow and far too weak to respond in the past. i also have two steelworks in my region. the impatience to act in time and openly in the case of obviously dumped products was very great. as chairman of the chinese delegation, i am glad that the vexing question of the country's market economy status has been cleared up and that we have found an intelligent horizontal solution. we are not looking at countries, we are looking at production and products. that's the right approach. i hope that this policy can be made visible so that the eu citizens can have more confidence in it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we shall be voting on a good report on thursday. thank you for your constructive cooperation. we social democrats can happily support the report because it contains the main points of our african policy. the report also makes it clear that we reject the recurrent demands of migration policy and the conditioning of development cooperation. the priority of development cooperation remains the fight against poverty, and there must be no conditioning of the recipient countries to the motto 'if we keep refugees out of our way, then there will be development funds'. we therefore want - and the report makes this clear - legal migration possibilities to prevent a little of the disasters that have been taking place in the mediterranean for years, in desert areas. we have brought some of our key positions with us. we want to ensure that there is equitable access to land and water to strengthen small family farms. we want to ensure that women are given the right to self-determination in family planning. and here i'm going to address a very important point: if we want to curb overpopulation, we need clear messages, then we need self-determination. otherwise, many of our development cooperation efforts will do relatively little good if incredible population growth essentially eliminates aid and what we have achieved in terms of progress. the last point on dialogue: we have the means of dialogue. we should make greater use of them in the field of acp affairs, in the field of the pan-african parliament and in cooperation with our parliament. overall, a very good report. i am very optimistic about abidjan.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one of the main points of this very good report by maurice ponga is paragraph 39, where the european parliament regrets that africa loses some 50 billion dollars a year in illicit money flows, which exceeds the annual allocations from official development cooperation and which undermines efforts to mobilize domestic revenues. not only since the paradise papers, we know that european companies, in collaboration with corrupt african regimes, are also very good at taking profits out of the continent and not paying taxes. if this swamp is not drained, we can still impose so many tax-funded development measures - we will be running behind development. secondly, when we set up additional development cooperation instruments, such as the emergency relief trust fund for africa, we should also ensure that it adds value. 90% of this fund is financed by the european budget. the member states are only a small part of this. at the same time, however, a large number of programmes from these funds are contracted with national development agencies in the member states. it's left pocket, right pocket, and it's not going to get us anywhere.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a ugandan saying on eu strategy for africa: the best time to plant a tree was twenty years ago; the next best thing is now. this is the wisdom i would have wished for as a development politician long ago for the new africa strategy. our neighbor africa deserves a fair deal on an equal footing. we need a strong african union as the twin of the eu also in our own interests. we need cooperation that respects the diversity of african countries and provides practical help on the ground. let's strengthen families, communities and cooperatives instead of squandering millions on regimes or corporations. let us give education to the young generation as a motor of development in exchange and partnership! let's learn from each other. let's bring together apprentices, students and entrepreneurs, let them mature together! let us create prospects and a positive development! we must stop arms exports. we supply well pumps and water purifiers! let's freeze the accounts of the despots! let's support real democrats! let us strengthen subsidiarity! or, as they say in senegal, the small stars always shine while the big sun sets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i also think that's going to be the case at the actual summit. but it is politically crucial for us that the commitment we express at the summit should continue and that we should not again find ourselves in the situation that we have been in since the last summit, where there have been no regular political meetings at all in the framework of the ministerial troika. that didn't happen. it is right that the commission should meet the african and european leaders, but this commitment must also be maintained by the member states. we must also give parliament a major push. the challenges are so great that we cannot afford to let this relationship simply operate below the political level. we need the commitment of the member states to put relations in a form where the challenges can be tackled together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join my colleagues in thanking the commissioner. i think it is good that both environmental and nature protection directives have been retained for the time being and that we are taking care of their implementation above all else. because it is dramatic. what has not been mentioned is that the insect death rate is also dramatic. we are losing a lot of biodiversity here, and we all have to work together. mr commissioner, you also had the opportunity to speak to the fishermen, pond owners and fishermen in my home country of brandenburg. of course, there are issues that still need to be addressed. we have the cormorant, and the population has recovered very well, and it is a great competitor to the fishermen there in terms of catches. i think that's really something that needs to be regulated. because to preserve biodiversity, we need all the players in the system, especially those who use it. but man, nature and the economy, they go together.
the commission has already done so. the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy clearly shows that we will not achieve our 2020 targets. on the contrary, biodiversity is declining at a rapid rate. in addition to the destruction of habitats by humans, climate change, pollution and the spread of exotic species, intensive agriculture is largely responsible for this sad development. we therefore need a new european agricultural policy, one that no longer aims at mass production and growth at any cost, but rather at the production of healthy food, the preservation of nature - which must of course be financially rewarded. the commission's proposals are not only a means of ensuring that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the expansion of the market, but also a means of ensuring that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the expansion of the market. it's time we put the lever in. we also need a massive increase in funding for the protection of the birds and habitats directive, for natura 2000 and for many other measures. that would be a sensible investment, because with no money in the world, we can buy back an extinct species.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. he's not doing anything, he's just playing. often, dog owners use this phrase to try to quell the curiosity of their favorite pet. that this is not the case with the wolf was observed a few days ago in my home country of southern germany. for the first time in a hundred years, a wolf in baden-württemberg has eaten three sheep. the question of coexistence between man and animal, but also between farm animals and wild animals, is the subject of today's debate on the action plan for nature conservation. in the context of the review, we agreed that the eu nature conservation directives should not be opened up, but rather that their implementation should be improved. that is why i welcome the action plan. the guidelines provide the necessary flexibility between man and nature. however, the commission must clarify the application of this flexibility by the member states by drawing up further guidelines. the management of beavers by my neighbours in bavaria shows that regional management is quite feasible. addressed to the member states and regions: there must also be a clear political will to manage wildlife properly. to the european commission: if there is a clear impetus from the regions and the member states and if the favourable conservation status is also demonstrated, then the commission must act. i think that is also true, for example, of the conflicts between cormorants and fishermen. the broad acceptance and participation of all stakeholders is fundamental to enhancing biodiversity. conservation must be done in close coordination with all stakeholders.
mr president, commissioner vella, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. it's almost like a fairy tale: after more than a hundred years of absence, the wolf has returned to europe. it's spreading fast, that sounds spectacular. but when the returnees reach their own terrace, it's harder to rejoice. because a cat is not a wolf. from lower saxony i keep getting images of clever sheep, cattle and even dogs. it seems only a matter of time before a human becomes a victim of predators. we understand these concerns. when highly protected species have reached a good conservation status and are also threatening sustainable rural development, the commission must take action. that includes the cormoran, by the way. its massive expansion in recent years has had a devastating effect on fish stocks. for example, the cormorant has caused a dramatic collapse of the important predatory fish stock in the dümmer in lower saxony. no wonder a cormorant eats an average of two pounds [0.5 kg] of fish a day! the people on the ground are in dire need of more room for manoeuvre. it is not possible that flexible solutions on the ground should fail because of rigid european requirements. tomorrow we have the chance to bring europe closer to the people. we should take this opportunity to adopt the action plan by a large majority.
the commission has already done so. we have often discussed the situation bilaterally, and how far the nature conservation directives natura 2000, the birds directive can actually be translated into practical methods. there are also outgrowths. and in all of this highly interesting situation, that we're desperate to restore biodiversity, to protect it, that we've actually brought certain species that were on the verge of extinction back into a population, into a state where we can be happy that it's there. but if we have, for example, a cormorant population that has increased tenfold and fifteenfold in the last 20 years, then in my home in mecklenburg-western pomerania there are over 20 000 breeding pairs of cormorants, including young birds, a cormorant population of 40 000 and 50 000 animals, which are not only on the baltic coast and in the coastal waters, where they naturally exert a huge pressure on fish stocks, but also go further inland, and then there are the so-called finnish tourists who come to us from the baltic and from other countries where they have their breeding grounds, then we need a european-level cormorant management plan with quotas, and we also need to increase the breeding population ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, it really is a pity that mr legutko is not here anymore, because – i hate to break it to him – he is not poland. he is representing one voice in the polish debate. i actually asked my polish friends what they would like to hear mentioned in this debate and, in no time, dozens of people answered by messages, emails and comments. many points were brought up: amongst others, the government’s reaction – or non—reaction – to the fascist march last saturday; lgbti rights; minority rights; the question of free elections and free media; independent courts; the cutbacks to ngo funding; teachers’ rights; the question of białowieża forest; and also – over and over again – women’s rights and sexual and reproductive rights were mentioned by polish citizens, and i wanted to bring this up in the debate. but the story that took my breath away, i must say, was the story of piotr – a middle-aged man from a small city in poland who burnt himself in the middle of warsaw in protest at this government. he wrote a manifesto, bringing up demands that he would like to see considered by the pis government in poland. one thing that he said really struck me. despite the fact that he wants people to stand up against this government, he said, ‘remember, however, that the pis electorate are our mothers, brothers, neighbours, colleagues and friends’. this is not about fighting a war; it is about creating a dialogue, and i think it is now on us and mr timmermans to create this dialogue and to stand up for the rule of law and for polish citizens. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr coburn, i do not know how many times this has to be repeated in this parliament. it is not specific policies that we are discussing today, it is the breaching of the polish constitution, and that is the basis for how we are doing democracy all together. if the rule of law is not respected in countries then there cannot be a democratic debate. this is the problem, this is why we are standing up. we are not discussing policies here, we are discussing what the fundament is of how we discuss. if that is breached then there cannot be democracy and there cannot be a democratic debate, and that is the problem regarding the situation in poland right now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is the saying 'three good things come in three days' and there is actually now a third resolution on poland. so, are you okay? quite the opposite! the polish government has so far refused to engage in direct dialogue with the commission and, in particular, with the judicial reform, it is curtailing the independence of the judiciary, a cornerstone of democracy and the rule of law. in addition, there are restrictions on civil society, the right of assembly, women's rights. let me be clear: the poles have repeatedly stood up for democratic values solidarność, my body, my rights and many other protests , and we will not accept that the people of poland are now being deprived of democracy and the rule of law by their own government. that's why we keep putting our finger in the wound. we stand with the polish people!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i agree with my colleague. it is not just that greece, italy and the western balkan countries are responsible for the situation that has arisen, but that we ourselves as a european union including the member states including the commission, including us who have political responsibility here in the european parliament have a duty to prevent events like last year from happening again. and i think that should bring us all together, and it should not lead to us blaming somebody in some way, but to us saying very clearly what we have to do now. the first thing to say is: we have a problem with the fact that what has been done as deals, as agreements between the eu and other countries, is not being implemented, that we now have a situation where, for example, the greek islands are treated by the eu - certainly not with a clear intention, but nevertheless - as if australia, papua new guinea, were considered as islands, in order to finally unload the refugee problem there. we can't let this go on any longer. a lot of it has been financed through the commission. but we also know that, for example, a lot of the money can't go directly to the greek state, but to refugee initiatives or to unhcr. we also know that some of the commitments that were made were not implemented in the end. the greek islands were to be given 2 000 housing units. they weren't created, there's only 1,100! the commitments made on the mainland are also lacking. 28 000 places in apartments were to be created by the unhcr. there are 9,000 more to go. the funds are already there, they have been provided! the greek government was obliged to create permanent facilities with 12 000 places. it has almost reached its target: i think there are still 200 places missing. we should really go on saying: we need concrete, practical solutions. there's a suggestion, for example, to rent a hotel room. but now the rules, both for the unhcr and for the commission, say: 'we cannot do that'. we can't afford a hotel room. i did! we have to find a solution! because the apartments won't be coming soon. no one can tell me that you can, for example, have a hotspot like moria, which is permanently overcrowded - instead of 2,500 there are 5,000 to 6,000 refugees - and have a winter festival there. you can't do that! if i can't build the houses on the islands, then i really have to look at how i use the potential of free rooms that can be rented, and then i have to change the rules! there must be a way to do that, there must be a practical solution! so, in addition to what has already been done, more needs to be done. secondly, i would point out that the problem is exacerbated by the fact that many member states do not comply with their rules. i saw a short report on german television yesterday. it showed several refugees on hunger strike over the conditions in the camp. i have now come to the conclusion that: they were on hunger strike. thank god they ended it. they're going to germany and germany won't take them. but german television doesn't say that. it gives the impression that the greeks are again too stupid to do anything, they can't do it. but we as the federal republic of germany are not fulfilling our obligations. and so it is in many other countries. that is the point, and i ask the council to take it up and say: let us not talk about general things, but let us get concrete. people's lives are at stake. we are all responsible here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the winter plan for refugees. i find it unbearable that we have to say every year: winter is coming! but we still see deliberations on the greek islands, where refugees are housed in tents and exposed to cold temperatures. another humanitarian catastrophe is looming in the middle of europe. winter is coming, but the images of last winter must not be repeated. there are solutions: the commission and the greek government must put more asylum seekers in permanent accommodation on the mainland. dublin returns must be suspended and the fair distribution of refugees among all member states must finally be implemented. winter is coming! together we can prevent a disaster we should tackle it. i would like to make a personal comment, mr president. the european asylum law is not just for war refugees. it applies to all those fleeing political persecution and torture. it is a claim we must make. even if we have not started a war in recent years, not only because of our colonial history, but also because of our current policies, we are at least partly responsible for poverty and other developments in african countries of origin. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, mrs sippel. i myself was in the hotspot in moria on saturday. i don't want to add anything to the description of how miserable and dirty and crowded it is. but i also heard that the easo authority there is working very slowly and not working well, so now the european ombudsman has decided in june to accept a complaint for administrative misconduct. do you not agree that we must support the work of easo, but also make sure that it is working well, that there is also individual protection?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i believe that we have strengthened the european asylum support office precisely with the aim of supporting, advising and ensuring that the asylum conditions are met, and of course it is the commission's task to also ensure that the expectations we have attached to this strengthening are realised. i am therefore very much in favour of reviewing this and organising any further support that may be needed for the european asylum support office.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i don't want to attack you personally, but i have to. if you had made your speech here in september, i would have said: weak speech, commissioner. but to tell us in november that we have to do something now - i don't have the words to answer you. it's not about you telling us how much money you spent. you could have sent your accountant for that. it's about what you do to make sure that that money actually reaches people, where you intervene when a national government may not be able to do it on its own. we do not want to know how much money the commission has spent. i know that's a lot. if it doesn't help in the crucial areas, it's no good. i would therefore like to say to you today, commissioner, that next year will probably be winter in december. maybe we can talk in august, september about what homework you've finally done by then.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take up again mrs zimmer's question from this morning on the situation in germany of bringing together people who are already qualified to have a family reunion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it has to stop. to mr avramopoulos: you have called for the greek government to take swift measures to return him to turkey. a question to you: how can you assume that turkey is a safe third country when, after the erdoğan referendum, the human rights situation is extremely bad and when the number of turkish refugees from turkey is increasing at the evros river, the eu border?
in writing. i support the call for a winter relief plan for asylum seekers. we need a plan to help us meet our responsibilities in the long term. winter is coming, and more than 15 200 refugees and migrants are waiting on the greek islands, with a capacity for 8 000 people. another humanitarian catastrophe is looming. i hope that all the talk and words will soon be followed by action, such as the implementation of the fair distribution of refugees among the member states.
mr president, from brexit to more pleasant developments, we have on the tribune a delegation from the national people’s congress from china, and, after a break of one and a half years, we are pleased to have again an interparliamentary meeting. a lot of changes in china and europe that we will discuss this afternoon and tomorrow morning, and i think we should give the colleagues a very warm welcome. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, in many speeches yesterday on malta, a direct parallel was drawn between poland/hungary and malta. i would therefore like to say again very clearly that, in view of the panama papers, our group has been very strong in its call for malta to be clearly identified in all the alleged involvements and for clarification to be sought. we have succeeded in winning some of the motions against the opposition of other groups. nothing has changed in this position and nothing will change. but in terms of systematic undermining of democracy and the rule of law, we see clear differences between poland/hungary and malta. for this reason our group proposes that the words 'and article 7' be deleted from recital b.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mrs kalnete, i would like to thank you for your reply. bolshevism, totalitarianism, maoism, national socialism have caused endless suffering and countless victims, and you have thought of them in dignified terms. but it was unworthy to exploit the victims of totalitarianism to take advantage of populist movements. mr president-in-office, karl marx was not a populist, nigel farage is not a nazi, the five star movement is not made up of bolsheviks. it's wrong to blur the differences. and if you do that, and if you exploit the victims of national socialism and bolshevism and maoism in this way, then you are showing that you have a claim to a leadership of opinion that is against any form of protest, a claim to a leadership of opinion that is in turn totalitarian.
the commission has already done so. mr president of the council! in 1917, the great totalitarian phase of europe began. first with communism in russia, in the soviet union, and then from 1933 in germany. totalitarianism is the total assumption of control over the individual. it means the destruction of the dignity of the individual. if some people here say that the european union is comparable to that, then we would all be in prison under stalin and hitler for having a different opinion! if we were lucky, we'd be in prison, otherwise we'd be completely destroyed. it is intolerable to make such comparisons. i would also like to express that there is cooperation between national socialism and stalinism. the invasion of the baltic states, the takeover of poland, the handing over of western ukraine to the soviet union and many other things was a division of territory with effects to this day by the two totalitarian systems and with all the effects we had until 1989. this is the most monstrous thing that has ever happened on our continent. my own country was involved. we must therefore do everything possible to ensure that this destruction of the dignity of the individual can never happen again and that the subjugation of peoples in europe can never happen again. that is why europe is the answer of freedom against war and against dictatorship! that is the reason why i am european.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to congratulate the socialist group on the mobility package. it is not a contradiction to go green in the transport sector and to maintain and expand the industrial base within the european union, which provides millions of jobs. it is also undeniable that the transport sector as a whole needs to become cleaner. we need more efficient vehicles for that. we also need to help expand alternative propulsion technologies such as electric mobility, such as the fuel cell and others. and we must not forget that the potential of digitisation is being exploited and exploited. it is precisely through networking that it will be possible to save unnecessary traffic. we must also try to make local public transport even more attractive and - not to forget - to support autonomous and connected driving. the debate on the internal combustion engine is now raging not only in germany but throughout europe. i believe that the debate on the incinerator is as much about not being effective as it is about artificially extending its life. i am still of the opinion that we should invest boldly in the future. and if we look at the european union and the world, we see that we are very dependent on exports. we must not forget that other power centres in the world, such as china, california, where we were recently, are making great strides in banning combustion engines. that is why i say: we must make sure that we do not throw the child out of the car, but that we also set ourselves ambitious goals for the future, so that we can become even better in the future and make transport less emissive. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. ertug, you just said that the debate on the internal combustion engine and its end was an artificial debate. did i just misunderstand you? i'm not so sure, to be honest.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. the debate is not an artificial debate, but it is perhaps being discussed in the wrong direction. i think it's more important that when we talk about these issues, we also have to be aware that we're also looking at the entire value chain. what does it mean if the internal combustion engine is eventually banned early? millions of jobs depend on it. that is why i would advise you not to go crazy, not to prolong your life artificially, to invest in new technologies, to use all the levers we have today to ultimately make transport less emissive. there are many components we can discuss. that's just one of them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for presenting this package. we need to do something in the transport sector to make mobility cleaner - we all know that. there's a lot of things that have been said that are true, and i think they're good. that is why i look forward to the discussion of the various groups. merja kyllönen has said that we need technology neutrality. i agree. quotas to prohibit something are wrong. ismail ertrug has pointed out that it is not right to simply ban the internal combustion engine immediately either. pavel telička said that the chinese and the americans don't set quotas, they just do. of course, this is easier said than done. in this proposal we have fixed quotas within a certain period of time, and of course it is always good to have something like that because it is measurable. but it is absolutely true: we have to turn a lot of screws. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. the question of where the energy comes from is the only question in e-mobility. we need to think about platooning, we need other materials, algae spray, maybe in the future we can fly planes. we are doing something about a lot of things, including research. i think we must pursue this, not just in the committee on transport and the environment, but in all committees. then we can make good progress.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. two important issues are currently being discussed at the bonn climate conference. first, it is about how countries can reduce their emissions in a comparable and transparent way. secondly, it is becoming clear that we need very ambitious reduction targets very quickly to be able to limit the global temperature increase. both are also important for regulating or limiting greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector, which could soon be the largest sector in the eu. i will therefore be advocating that co2 emission limits be set in absolute terms by road tests and that reduction targets be ambitious and comparable. our european car manufacturers are very innovative, and they can do more than we currently ask. consumers are rightly alarmed because car manufacturers have massively violated the trust placed in them. drivers pay for mileage because the manufacturer's consumption figures differ considerably. it is in your best interest as a manufacturer to regain trust. i therefore urge you to set ambitious targets. let yourself be audited by transparent procedures and thus regain your trust!
(speaker speaking without a microphone) ... your report, i look forward to it. i've been involved in carbon policy for 25 years, and i have to be honest with you, i expected worse. i think the report is going in the right direction. but i want to remind you that for the last 25 years, we've had a permanent cow trade with the automotive industry. you have to stay hard. it's good that you prefer technology neutrality. some of my colleagues will see it differently. i think that's good. one question: why didn't you introduce a painting system into your bonus system? those who want to push themselves away are positively motivated. that is my brief comment on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the good cooperation between the rapporteur and the other groups and our epp rapporteur, mr jarosław wałęsa, has produced a good report. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. i would like to thank our ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, again this year for her good and trusting cooperation and congratulate her on her good work. i would like to speak about two things that are important to me for the sake of time. firstly, as you yourself have said, mrs o'reilly, you are working on an almost procedure. if you have a good solution, we're interested in it ourselves. as a member of the committee on petitions, i too sometimes find it takes too long for our petitioners to get an answer. if you found the philosopher's stone here, please let us know, so we can work together there. the next problem area has been mentioned several times: transparency. i would like to say to my colleagues on the committee on petitions that we must all work together again, as they say: sit down without foam in your mouth, without ideological prejudices! perhaps it would be much, much easier for us here if we first of all formulated the limits, and then we could work together in the great field of transparency. we shall see tomorrow - this is a small defect - the differences in voting behaviour in the field of transparency. but i would like to make one more appeal to everyone: we all have to do our homework when it comes to transparency. but i also detected in the interludes, including from my colleague evi, that she might be thinking in the same direction. transparency is important and good, but there are limits. i look forward to continuing our good cooperation in this regard.
mr president, dear mrs o'reilly, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to help the eu institutions become more effective, transparent and accountable by strategically enhancing the profile of the european ombudsman. that's how you articulated your goal in june 2014. you did a very good job. europe needs speakers like you to amplify the voice of the citizens. they become active in cases of unfair treatment by eu authorities, problems with eu tenders and late payments, denied access to eu documents and missing replies, and appropriate or unpublished lobbying. i myself have called for the legislative footprint for all members of the european parliament here in the house and i thank you for your guide to dealing with lobbyists. it should be on everyone's desk. last but not least, by taking your seat here in the house, you give a face to strasbourg, the european citizen's capital, a face which i would like to see in the european parliament, with its single seat in strasbourg.
i have to say, madam president, the worrying trend of inequality in income, educational opportunities, career advancement and retirement provision has led to outrage, frustration and even anger. the result is a rise in populism and extremism in some member states. we are opposing your dull slogans to concrete change. the eu has clear concepts and effective instruments. one basis is our european social model. economic dynamics of the markets are linked to social balance. it is about equal opportunities, solidarity with the disadvantaged, the creation of quality jobs, the fight against poverty and exclusion. the europe 2020 strategy aims to significantly increase the employment rate, significantly reduce the number of school leavers and further reduce the risk of poverty. the commissioner said that the commission was not prepared to accept the amendments. in addition to assessing economic growth and structural reforms, social components should also be taken into account. what about the efsi? it should certainly help small and mediumsized enterprises considerably, and on the other hand promote education and training. another ambitious idea is the youth guarantee. yes, it led to the youth employment initiative. after initial difficulties, the first concrete successes are evident. i hope that we can continue to increase the funds. i think that the demand for a pan-european unemployment insurance scheme is unacceptable, mr rapporteur. we have rejected these automatic stabilizers by a majority enough times. they're the entry point into a transfer union; we can't go through with it. i think that the better equipping of the european social fund is much more important. it has been shown to promote social inclusion, stable employment, integration into labour markets and access to lifelong learning. so we have stable instruments. we want to fight inequality and build social cohesion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the issue of inequality is a very important issue! it's a shame we're having this discussion at this late hour. i hope that at least a lot of people are following this debate live. in my own country, germany, a survey has just been published. it said that 77% of people in germany think they are afraid of inequality. many of them are doing quite well. but they're still afraid of inequality. we know that inequality causes economic, social and even political damage in our society. what does that mean? what does that mean? and what that ultimately means is that people may not be able to fully exercise the opportunities that they have, and they may not be able to participate in society in the way that they want to. i think that the issue of inequality raises three questions. one, how do you actually measure that? secondly, when do we reach a critical point where we no longer encourage individuals to improve, where we no longer reduce inequality, but instead discourage entire social groups? the third question is: what are the means to reduce inequality? there are some people, including those in the european parliament, who say that we simply have to expand social systems. the question of european unemployment insurance, as the left wing in this parliament would like, is not, i believe, a solution. we should think differently. we should focus on the issue of promotion and demand. investing in education is important, giving people who are really treated unequally from their own point of view, but have the chance to reduce their inequality on their own. investing in education, including the youngest, the youngest, is much better than inflating social systems. i shall also be voting against paragraph 37 tomorrow. european unemployment insurance this is out of the question with the epp.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. since 2014, the russian import ban on a number of agricultural products has been in place, and we all felt that we should not have discussed it today. we all hoped that in 2017 there would be no need for this import embargo. i therefore think it is good and right that our committee chairman has put the question to the commission, because unfortunately we have to assume a long-term process. i can take the compliment to the commissioner right away: he has really tried to make up for this failure, but we are a little bit like the repair shop. i would also like to ask the commission once again - i do not think the honourable member is here. we are also suffering a little from the russian tactics, and one could also say that we are also suffering a little from the american tactics. the european farmers have therefore come under the control of the superpowers, which, if you will, are making great policies at the expense of third parties, namely the mediumsized companies, our farmers. so please, commissioner, do not fail to work within your commission to ensure that we as the european union finally rebuild the bridge between america and russia that we normally should be. and, if you will, there is no common european foreign policy. you were right when you said: the minimum requirement is that, of course, when the european union says for foreign policy reasons: 'we are here to participate in the common policy with america', the american side also keeps the promises it has made to us. we urge you once again: the situation is what it is, you have to make up for it, don't let up. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are compensated for their losses. but my second request again: do not forget the big politics. we have to solve this problem. when great men quarrel, there's always a third loser.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no one here doubts that we all really respect the values that underlie us, and i want to do the same here. but are we really complementary economies, as was said earlier? i do not see this in the agricultural sector for every product. and here is where the problem comes in. we are making a lot of trade agreements - it was just called ceta - we are going to mercosur, we are going to australia, to new zealand, now comes japan. but who is really looking at what this ultimately means for agriculture and food production? who really evaluates what's coming to us? we look at each agreement individually, but it adds up. i see a very big problem here. we need to evaluate exactly what it means in total. food is not a normal commodity, it's not a car that we can make at will. food production has a lot to do with the local regions, with the people who work in them, and it also has to do with how we then deal with the environment. i think we should evaluate this better and build more protection here.
a writer. the commission is not i welcome the fact that we are calling on the sudanese government to respect the rights of freedom. the omnipotent intelligence services and police have repeatedly confiscated newspapers, banned non-governmental organizations, dissolved assemblies and arrested human rights activists. the prosecution of the government-critical journalist mohamed zine al-abidine is a recent example. i also expect that in a resolution such as this we will be able to examine the eu's policy in sudan in a self-critical way. that is why we have tabled the green amendments. we are challenging eu cooperation with sudan on migration issues. we also call for the eu and the member states to reduce their diplomatic relations without substantial improvements in the human rights situation. in the spring, i spoke to human rights activists in khartoum, who all feared that the eu's strong focus on border protection and security was leading to reticence on human rights issues. i share that concern. it would be fatal for sudan if the eu, in the interests of short-term interests, were to turn its attention, even partially, away from the catastrophic humanitarian and human rights situation. sudan is currently the only country whose sitting head of state is wanted by the international criminal court for war crimes and genocide. this week sudanese president al-bashir was in uganda. unfortunately, uganda has taken no action to hand him over to the international criminal court. the high representative has publicly criticised this. i am in favour of this. the eu must continue to insist on cooperation with the international criminal court.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. after the election of mohamed abdullahi mohamed as president of somalia in february this year, there was a faint hope that the situation in the country of somalia could stabilize and that the fight against terrorism in the country could be fought more vigorously. after the cowardly bombings in the centre of somalia's capital, mogadishu, in february this year, that hope seems to be shattered. hundreds of dead, wounded and missing people are to be mourned. we must not be indifferent to their fate, and we must show our sympathy to their families. the question is how far the somali government and security forces are prepared to go to protect their citizens. and the african union's somalia mission, amison, also seems unable to effectively suppress the actions of terrorist organizations like al-shabaab on the contrary: for example, it is reported that 5 000 burundian soldiers abandoned their positions without a fight and handed over civilians who were in need of protection to the al-shabaab militia. amison has been and is largely funded by the eu through the african peace facility. we should urgently review the effectiveness of this aid, since a report by the court of auditors raises serious doubts about the effectiveness and efficiency of this facility. the international community is called upon to prevent further destabilisation of somalia and the emergence of terrorist organisations such as al-shabaab as a threat to the whole region, if we think, for example, of the political uncertainty in kenya, where there are hundreds of thousands of refugees from somalia. it was pointed out by the colleagues that the geopolitical situation is of course also a factor. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region, and to help the people of the region to find a solution to the problems of the region. this could become a wildfire that we cannot ignore. before more lives are lost, action is needed, including from the european union.
i am not going to go into detail. the meeting is resumed. mr dartmouth, you have signed up for the rules of procedure. please also indicate the article to which you are referring.
my dear colleague! we cannot go back to the discussion we had yesterday. i have another point of order. mr. woolfe, please, you have the floor.
i would ask you to come to your point of order. that's not the case. i'll take that.
thank you. thank you. we cannot, unfortunately, be silent today, but one thing is clear: we are all victims of disasters, which for us are always very great human disasters. i thank you, mr papadimoulis, and i thank you for thinking of the victims. i am grateful that we are always standing up for minorities and making sure that they are protected. this is a very important question for us as the european parliament. thank you for letting us know about this again. but if you will allow me, i would like to come to our rules of procedure.
i have to say, madam president, i wanted to inform the house that on tuesday afternoon, during the debate on the rule of law in malta, the livestream in malta was interrupted after the contribution of mr giegold and was switched off after the contribution of mr casa. the 28 colleagues who spoke afterwards were silenced. i consider this a huge scandal and ask the bureau to investigate the cause. (applause from the centre)
thank you for the information. i do not see any other motions for resolutions. that's why we come to our work.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
thank you very much, mr pimenta lopes. we are not voting on the report as such today, but only on the decision of the libe committee to open negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report has been available in english since last week. this is the usual trilog procedure. the translation will be provided. we shall now vote on the libe committee's decision on the basis of mrs wikström's report.
i'm sorry about that. thank you very much, mrs. wikström. mr pimenta has already made the counter-speech. that is why we can now proceed to the vote. the committee's decision was approved by parliament. the negotiations may resume at any time.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
- i'm not going to lie. you have two minutes for both mrs mizzi's report and mr lópez's report. but you only have three minutes in total. could you tell me which of the two reports is two minutes and which is one minute so i can have it for my record?
the explanations of vote are closed.
madam president, i only wanted to add to what our colleague from the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (alde) has said; that for me it was extremely worrying when i saw on social media the pictures of several of our colleagues from poland – pictures showing our colleagues hanged. i think that this is not at all something that can be covered by freedom of expression. for me, this was more a criminal act, and what we can expect our colleagues in the bureau to do, including our vice-president from poland, is not only to make excuses for this action and their words but also to act against this action, which i see as a criminal action.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the 2018 budget fails to send a strong signal for a real fresh start in the area of budgetary policy. we still spend over 70% of our budget on agriculture and cohesion. agricultural policy has been a challenge in the past. the cohesion policy does not pay enough attention to the real impact of the money we spend. the challenges of the future are to be found in research in particular, but also in the networking of science, then of course in securing our external borders and in a sensible migration policy. but this must not lead us to say simply and forcefully: 'we need more money.' the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are therefore against continuous subsidies, but we should switch to a type of subsidies which decrease year by year, so that we can get out of the dilemma of having to pay subsidies once and always. we should also not forget that in the 2017 budget, we had to return 10 billion euros because they could not be spent properly. it just shows that we haven't been focusing on the right things. it shows that we had way too much bureaucracy, and we need to work on that. finally, we are also fighting with this budget expenditure and problems which we would not have had without the euro.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the permanent rapporteur for the agencies, i would like to thank the colleagues who were on the rapporteur team. i would like to thank in particular mr siegfried mureşan, who has succeeded me as rapporteur-general. i felt very well represented by you, siegfried, and you represented our affairs and the affairs of the agencies very well. we have been able to strengthen the agencies dealing with border management, asylum policy and counter-terrorism, and we have also succeeded in the negotiation round in having more resources for the gsa. i look forward to the launch of galileo, the european satellite network, because i believe that this will be a great boost to europe's innovative capacity. but we have the same problem every year: the multiannual financial framework is not working. the challenges facing the eu were unforeseeable in 2013. the trust funds and the financial facility for refugees in turkey underline this. unfortunately, the member states do not have the power to change this. it forces us to do tricks that i like to call household voodoo. we're in a situation that was unforeseeable. the solution is more equity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. on november 8th, exactly three weeks ago, california governor jerry brown was a guest in this house, and he received a lot of praise from many of our colleagues for his active climate policy in california and for his diplomatic work globally, trying to limit some of the damage that president trump is doing to international climate policy. but the most applause was for jerry brown's self-criticism. when asked if he was satisfied with what he was doing in california or what he was seeing globally in active climate policy, jerry brown said: "to be honest, we are not on track. i would also like to see the european commission, especially after the bonn climate conference, being just as honest. it is a good thing, mr arias cañete, that the commission is insisting that we are on the best possible path to achieving our climate objectives. if you measure this against the objectives you have set for yourself as a european for the energy transition, then you may well be on the right track. but if you make the paris agreement the benchmark, then we are not on track at all, because the targets that we have set and are working towards means that by 2050 we have to be completely decarbonised. if you look at the climate budgets, the carbon budgets that we have left, then if you do the energy economy the way you're doing it now, we would have to be completely decarbonized after 2030 to 2040 in 10 years. and the pretensions that we don't dare to make today, where we even go back to some of what we can do, you just want to put off for the next decade. i don't think this is a good idea. i want to be honest in the balance sheet on climate targets, and i want to think bigger, because i have long been convinced that the european union needs and has an innovation project. the climate union - similar to the security union, which we have now settled fairly quickly - is the innovation project for the european union. and we're not defending the sustainability of our industry if we're slowing down on renewables or efficiency.
i have to say, madam president, we welcome the commission's good record on the 2020 targets and we also strongly support the commission's proposals for the future 2030 targets. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the left in this house wants 40%, but that - and all the impact assessments say that - would destroy the ets system, and we have to consider whether we are not rather hindering the structural change to renewable energy with a 40% commitment to savings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. let's think about electric vehicles: wind and solar are not yet as efficient as diesel technology or gasoline technology. that means we're going to need more electricity, more electricity from renewable energy at the outlet. that is why we cannot say now that we have to save 40 per cent of energy. we are thus hindering the structural change towards renewable energy. it is very dangerous what the european parliament has now proposed here in committee with a very narrow majority. if we fail to see these links, if we stop the development of renewable energy, it is not about efficiency - and i say this quite explicitly to the left - it is about playing poker, it is about playing poker with the council and with the others. and if parliament is playing poker, it is no better than an ngo which, with its exaggerated environmental views, sometimes interferes in the political process of opinion formation. we as the epp are definitely not going to go along with this. we want to develop a realistic perspective and we want to warn against the danger of excessive austerity being used to impede structural change and expansion. that is why we as the epp are following the commission's proposals to the greatest extent possible. but i also announce that we are, of course, open to compromise. but the 40% compromise is not 40 but below. thank you, thank you.
mr president, yesterday the committee on industry, research and energy voted for renewable targets for the year 2030. it was very interesting to see that those members in this house who usually cannot have enough of europe were becoming very nationalistic. they wanted national targets instead of europe-wide targets. in the energy sector, we now have targets for just about everything. we have emission targets, efficiency targets, renewable targets, interconnector targets and so on. let me remind you that socialist economies did not suffer from too few targets, they collapsed because there were too many targets. here, we are missing people who are in favour of liberalisation and safe responsibility for competitiveness. where are they? we seem to be obsessed with targets. i think we should stop this. rather than making brexit difficult, the eu should offer a new deal for britain. this would enable them not only to stay in the energy union, and of course in the common market, but it would also enable them to stay in the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today, almost exactly one year ago, the european commission presented the clean energy for all europeans package. and since then the energy committee has been working hard on the eight legislative proposals from the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are calling for a binding 40% efficiency target at european level with binding national targets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, such as the introduction of a new energy tax on buildings. it is also important from an industrial policy point of view to have a binding, ambitious and regulatory framework, because only then can investments be made and innovation potential be exploited. i think that was an important stage win and i appeal to all members to support the result of the vote also in the january plenary vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. have you ever asked children where electricity comes from? as a father, i know the answer is usually, "from the socket". 2018 will be a year of energy for europe: security of supply and market, energy efficiency and lower emissions, innovation and competitiveness. the energy union has ambitious targets. but it must not stop there, because without action the political light goes out quickly. the energy union cannot be a black box of less winners. no, good energy needs full power. good energy needs a real turnaround. good energy must be sustainable, decentralised and guarantee regional added value. europe's best energy is citizen energy, generated in good, nationwide networks and not chased across the country in disastrous monster raids. we need clean co-operative power stations, active smes and farmers who are involved, instead of the corporate clutches of the coal. we do well to ask, also in this energy union, where the electricity comes from, and to be clear: there is more than just the can.
the commission has already done so. i would like to emphasize one aspect of your proposal which is particularly important to me: the energy transition must be socially fair. why is that important? i come from the rhenish brown coal region. there are 9,000 people living there directly on the lignite. they live there with their families. there are suppliers, everyone consumes. so we're talking about a five-digit number of jobs that are directly tied to this energy source, lignite. all these people need our support, they need the support of the european union. we need to invest in new jobs, in new technologies, in education, so that these people can continue to live in the region. i am for ambitious and ambitious goals, but in a way that is predictable and fair to these people.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have seen a horrible tragedy happening in greece. twenty-one people have lost their lives. families and friends are grieving for the victims of this latest disaster, and greece really is one of the hotspots of the effect of climate change that we see all over europe. we have also had floods in past years, and we have had heatwaves. so this is really where we need to help. we need to do whatever we can do as the european union. the commissioner has already outlined some of those issues. i think we should also engage in the long term to help rebuild. apart from the lives that were lost, we also have severe damage to infrastructure and housing. people’s homes have been destroyed, their economic means of support have been destroyed, and we need to help in the long and medium term, too, so that those properties can be rebuilt, and so that eu regional money and funds can also be used on long-term measures such as anti-flood works and on prevention for the future. it is one thing is, of course, to respond to a disaster, but the second question is how to prevent it from happening again in the future – with smart urban planning, with making sure that we respect the environment, keeping green zones, and making sure that rivers can extend when there is heavy rainfall. all those prevention measures will become more and more important as we see climate change progressing. a joint effort is therefore needed, not just in greece but also all over europe, because we have also seen, as colleagues have mentioned, similar disasters happening all over europe. so we need to get smart. we need to make sure that people are not harmed, that no damage is done by the catastrophe. we need to focus on prevention so that we don’t have to be sorry for loss later on.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the commission considers that the new rules on the capital adequacy of the institutions are not sufficient to ensure that the capital adequacy of the institutions is maintained. so it is a question of certain limits on banks investing in government bonds denominated in foreign currency. it is necessary to deal with those two articles in an accelerated procedure in order to allow those transitional rules to enter into force in time for 1 january 2018 in order to avoid a cliff-edge effect by mitigating the impact of the introduction of those new standards. in july, we in the econ committee adopted the european parliament's position by a very large majority and, after three trilogues, we were able to reach a very good result with the council, which was supported by a very large majority in this house at committee level. i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the commission representatives and the estonian presidency for the good cooperation and the rapid conclusion of this dossier. what are the details? firstly, accounting standards. ifrs 9 replaces the old accounting standard ias 39, but it introduces significant changes to the accounting of a bank's expected losses. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not fully covered by the banking communication. this expected additional burden is intended to ease a transitional period of five years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission has adopted a dynamic approach to mitigate these effects, allowing for the gradual re-addition of expected losses to equity to a certain extent over a period of five years. we in the european parliament have clearly supported this dynamic approach in our positioning, since this approach allows the reductions to be adjusted annually and thus allows for unexpected situations such as an economic crisis to be taken into account much better and with a greater sensitivity to risk. however, we have also made some important modifications to ensure that any additional burdens that are actually caused by the introduction of ifrs 9 are also alleviated during this transition period. the council's position, on the other hand, was much more complex than ours and, on the contrary, it takes a statistical approach, although it has a dynamic component. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the capital needs of the bank, but are also limited to the capital needs of the bank. only if the result of the calculation following a yearly dynamic calculation method deviates by more than 20% from the calculations following the statistical origination approach at the beginning, for example due to a negative economic shock, the amount above the 20% threshold may be recalculated in addition to the core capital. the most important concern for us in the trilog was to defend the dynamic components of our approach, and we succeeded in doing so. we have managed to reach a compromise on the basis of the commission's statistical approach, but it has a strong and clear dynamic component, which states that from a threshold of 0%, i.e. anything greater than 0%, of the dynamic part of the calculation from the original static part, can be added to equity. this ensures that we can be more risk-sensitive here, that we can make annual adjustments here, and basically that is all that we have done here in parliament with the dynamic approach, with the approach that the commission originally proposed. all in all, this is an important success for this house in the negotiations with the council, and we think we are putting forward something here that will ensure that on the one hand we get a better deal here than in the past through the new accounting standards, but on the other hand it will also ensure that this is done smoothly and without unnecessary cliff effects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the new standards were presented in 2014 and were originally intended to apply in the eu from 1 january 2018. the timetable was too tight for smaller banks in particular, as implementation entails significant implementation costs. transitional periods are designed to minimise such costs. the subsequent implementation of these standards is therefore appropriate. it makes perfect sense within the system. i would like to make another point here: regulation costs money, and the costs of regulation tend to be borne more by small businesses and banks. they have less staff and less lobbying power to influence regulation in their favour - a crucial point for me. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. if you save insolvent banks with taxpayers' money because it seems politically expedient, you need a complex regulation to give taxpayers the feeling that they will not be asked to pay in the future. the rescue operations following the recent financial crisis were necessitated by the risky commitments made by banks. the low interest rate policy, particularly that of the us central bank, has led to this. the ecb's zero-interest policy is a repetition of this dangerous political game. even a tightly-knit regulation does not protect against this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate this evening has shown two things. firstly, we can probably count on a large parliamentary majority for our trilogue result tomorrow. secondly, it has once again shown that, although the contributions of some colleagues are rich and interesting, they would be even more meaningful if they had dealt with the dossier just once. in school, in a german essay, you would have said: "missed topic". but you're gonna have to get over it. what is important is that we are starting something here tonight that will translate europe at this point and the banks that have to deal with our regulations into a new world of accounting standards in a healthy, timely way. this is important to maintain stability and i am sure that if we continue in the same way with the further processing of the cad package, we will be able to complete the whole package in the same satisfactory way next year.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. tomorrow we will vote in plenary on the extension of the instrument for stability and peace, which has been the subject of long and initially controversial debate. the text is the result of good cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr danjean, in particular - not just because it is so common in the rhetoric - for his commitment, his willingness to compromise and, above all, for his reliable cooperation, even if it has been a little bit clumsy. the change in this instrument is intended to enable the eu to cooperate with military actors in the security sector in partner countries. until now, it was only possible with the police. and to this end, the instrument will be increased by approximately eur 100 million. if we want our efforts to be sustained in many countries, we must also be prepared to protect these projects and the follow-up facilities of the partner countries. in some cases, this also requires local military support to be able to do this at all. the enlargement includes, for example, the provision of - as you have rightly said - non-lethal equipment: life jackets, transport capacities, first aid equipment. the important point is that the financing of arms and ammunition is expressly excluded. the crucial point for us was that the security measures are not financed from funds allocated for aid and development. the first objective of development cooperation is poverty reduction, and military assistance - even if it is right in this context - must not deprive this objective of resources. we have agreed together that there is a paragraph on transparency. it is important to us that the commission monitors and evaluates the measures taken by the instrument and that it regularly informs us members. the fact that we have only achieved these two points after some resistance from the council and part of the commission shows how seriously we should take these two commandments in the future.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not as a reminder to the previous speakers, the instrument for stability and peace is an instrument for development, and it is appalling how easily scruples are swept aside to free up development aid funds for the training, maintenance and equipping of armies in third countries, funds which, according to the eu treaty, should actually serve the clearly defined objective i quote from the treaty : the main objective of the union's policy in this area is to combat and, in the long term, to eradicate poverty. the use of development aid for military purposes is an abuse. unfortunately, it's not new, but it's becoming more open, and it used to be more covert. the african peace facility was used, for example, and now it is supposed to be business as usual, at the expense of civil conflict resolution and development. yes, development requires a secure and peaceful environment, but how do you achieve that with military training, arms exports and military cooperation? and it's not like we don't have experience! the democratic republic of congo, somalia, mali, afghanistan - all countries where, despite eu aid for the military and security apparatus, nothing has improved. the result is more insecurity and more poverty. and to make matters worse, we are talking about an instrument - and i would remind you of this - with the weakest budgetary control possibilities compared to other instruments. i would like to conclude with the words of mrs von breut for the world on the transformation of this instrument. this is a peace and development bankruptcy. the eu started as a peace project and now it is increasingly focusing its foreign policy on the military dimension.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank mr danjean and all those who have worked on this compromise, because it is a necessary step that we are taking here. we are extending the instrument for stability and peace to include these aspects of capacity building for security and development. we have to realize that there is this direct link between development and security, and security comes first, so that safe development can also take place. it is clear from my point of view, especially to the critics, including my critics in my own evangelical church, i want to say clearly: the overall strategy of the european union formulates an ethical policy. it is not only morally justifiable, but it is on morally high ground, as the english would say. the instruments we need to implement this include capacity building for security and development. we have a situation where we don't use development funds for that. this budget has been increased by an extra 100 million euros so that this claim cannot be maintained. i do not need to repeat what has been said by both arnaud danjean and the commissioner, what this can be used for and what it cannot be used for. anyone who continues to claim that it is used to finance arms purchases is fooling the public, and that is not appropriate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that i have been able to convince the commission and the council, with the help of the european socialists and the european people's party, of my two amendments: firstly, that no money from the eu budget for development cooperation should be used to extend the peace and stability instrument, and secondly, that the commission should undertake to carry out a thorough evaluation of projects to equip the military. but that is not the end of the matter. with a view to the next multiannual financial framework from 2021, a new european financial instrument to support security policy objectives in partner countries needs to be developed. the mandatory evaluation is an important basis for this. in my view, europe needs a broad toolbox, from humanitarian aid to development cooperation and security and defence policy. the link between development policy and security policy must not, however, be at the expense of development work. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this compromise, including the commission.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is a scandal that eu member states continue to support the war in yemen by exporting arms to parties to the conflict. the european parliament already made a clear position in february 2016 and called for an arms embargo against saudi arabia. this position is also confirmed in tomorrow's resolution. nevertheless, many eu countries - including the uk, france and germany - continue to supply arms to the gulf state. this has to stop. anyone who supplies weapons to warring parties is complicit in the crime. i urge the high representative to finally do what this parliament has repeatedly asked her to do, namely to launch an initiative to impose an eu arms embargo on saudi arabia. we expect that mrs mogherini, as president of the foreign affairs council, will formally put the embargo on the agenda of the next meeting. thousands of civilians have already been killed in this war by military action. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the crimes committed in this war must be investigated and those responsible held to account. we therefore support comprehensive investigations, as called for by the united nations human rights council. the humanitarian crisis in yemen is worsening dramatically, with millions of people at risk of starvation and cholera spreading. saudi arabia and its allies must immediately lift all blockades of ports and airports. in this context, i also appeal to the german government in berlin not to supply any more patrol boats to saudi arabia. these are the boats that can be used to blockade ports and use hunger as a weapon against the population.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner has rightly pointed out that hospitals, schools and houses are being bombed, destroyed in air raids, women and children are being killed, these are so-called collateral damage. but who has planes in this war, who can bomb? these aren't the houthi rebels, are they? the houthi rebels, who once stood up to political persecution, to contempt from a sunni majority. these houthi rebels are under an arms embargo by the united nations, while on the other hand the sunni majority is supported by saudi arabia, the united arab emirates, the usa, the uk, jordan, morocco, pakistan and al qaeda. why do we not take action against these countries, as we do here in this house? why are we not doing anything about the uk, which is still a member of our eu and is the leading participant in these bombings? the sanctions and measures taken by the eu are not enough. they must be directed against everyone!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this debate has been a very useful exchange and i thank our colleagues, the honourable members, for their interventions. i gather from our exchange that we need as a matter of urgency to ensure that yemen is high on the eu’s agenda of political priorities. we will reflect on how best to use the policy instruments at our disposal to continue to play a constructive role in ending this conflict and helping yemen on its path to recovery and reconstruction. there are just two points i would like to raise. firstly, after a lot of efforts by the international community, and in particular by us as the european union, regarding humanitarian access, just last week humanitarian flights to and from sanaa were granted permission to operate. this is the only access for humanitarian assistance into the north of yemen and must definitely be allowed to operate without interruption. but this is not enough of course, and this is why we have to continue to put pressure in order to sustain unrestricted humanitarian access. it is the only way to provide humanitarian assistance. the second point i would like to clarify is that any decision to impose an arms embargo on saudi arabia would require unanimity within the council. let me once again stress my appreciation for your having decided to debate this issue and for parliament’s role in advancing what i see as a common goal on what is definitely a humanitarian tragedy.
in writing. – on 16 july, the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs announced that 20.7 million people in yemen are in need of assistance. moreover the destruction of infrastructure and breakdown of public services have fuelled the outbreak of cholera. the devastating humanitarian impact of the conflict on civilians is alarming. the downward spiral in yemen must be stopped by all means. the european union should continue to support the efforts of the united nations to achieve a resumption of the negotiations. all parties in the conflict have to act in a flexible and constructive manner and without preconditions to their efforts. only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution to the conflict can restore peace and preserve the unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of yemen.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the vast majority of this house supports the establishment of a multilateral court as a consequence of the view that the old dispute settlement mechanism, the old isds system, has many weaknesses and belongs on the rubbish heap of history. we've had a long discussion about the lack of transparency in the process, about the lack of auditing capabilities, about the fact that law firms are doing big business with it, and, and, and. this is not a sensible protection of investment, and in that respect it is right. as parliament we have ensured that a different system has been set up in the canada agreement, a judicial system with judges, with an audit body, with full transparency, and both partners have, as you know, committed themselves in the canada agreement to advocate a multilateral investment court and to attract partners. we saw that there was a lot of interest in a presentation during the unctad conference. we've seen that a lot of technical meetings have already been there. so this is really a way of dissolving the old isds treaties. we want to support this approach, and that is why, commissioner, we have put this question to the oral question. we are particularly concerned about three points. you know the questions, i don't need to read them to you. maybe the three elements. first of all, if you want to support this process, it is also important to know what difficulties there are, what objections there are and what restrictions there are. and so it would be good if we could have a little more in-depth discussion about where the potential obstacles are. for example, i could imagine that some countries on this planet would say: it is very nice that he is now coming around the corner with his proposal for a multilateral investment court, but the council of ministers and some member states are not even able to sign the uncitral convention on greater transparency. that is a contradiction, and i say that it could be an obstacle. so let's look again: what are the obstacles? secondly, we are naturally particularly interested in what this means for the european bilateral investment agreements and for the only investment agreement adopted by the european union with isds, the energy charter. we have about 1 200 bilateral investment agreements. i think it is a miracle that we are fighting so fiercely about future agreements and their settlement, but the existing ones are simply going on and being used so fiercely. for example, spain is currently one of the countries most frequently sued by other countries, including european countries, or by companies from european countries, and sometimes also from countries which are particularly critical of this system. so what is the situation with the new approach to existing agreements? i think we need to clarify that. thirdly, in my own country there is criticism from the german judges' association, a very serious association of judges, who say: this is not a good system because the national legal system is not fully exploited. we would also like to have an answer to this, as you see it - a link between the request to exhaust the national legal system first and then to be able to call on an international, multilateral court. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i think that the commissioner has not yet made a statement.
the commission has already done so. many questions have been asked. but the picture of opinion seems to be clearly defined by many. the citizens refuse to give foreign investors the exclusive right to threaten and initiate arbitration proceedings. so the question is: does the mandate you have put forward for a multilateral investment court really break with the wrong fundamental principle of isds? do you offer equality before the law? does the mandate provide an answer to the question: on what law should judgments be based? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. furthermore, does the court also address the obligations of investors? no more one-way streets! all international experience says that we need a right of action also for municipalities, cities and countries, for the victims of transnational corporations' violations of human, social and environmental rights. let us learn from the negative example of the decades-long conflict between chevron, texaco and ecuador. even if it succeeds in creating a court of justice which meets the criteria mentioned above: as long as the isds instrument remains in the energy charter treaty, we as the eu will be left to our own devices. in the end, that means: let us follow the example of italy and withdraw from the charter!
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. on the implementation of the european strategy for people with disabilities, i would like to thank the rapporteur, my esteemed colleague, mrs helga stevens, for her extraordinary commitment to a barrier-free europe: thank you, helga! we all know that europe has grown by putting borders and barriers aside. let's do that too. let us create a barrier-free europe for all people! nothing is impossible. i hope we can provide the impetus for all nations, all regions and states, yes, all municipalities to do everything possible to guarantee an environment free of barriers. let us create a genuine european disabled person's card in the eu! but the barriers are also in our minds. disability begins where we make it one. let us live together in the truest sense of the word. children set an example. they are masters of the collective game of seeing the person and not the handicap. the concerns of disabled people deserve a separate policy and quick action today, not tomorrow.
i am not going to go into detail. first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur helga stevens and the shadow rapporteurs, in particular my colleague marek plura, for their excellent work on this dossier. i think that this report has succeeded in showing the progress already made, but also the weaknesses still existing in the field of european policy for and with disabled people and in setting new objectives for our work. we should make it our policy to always take into account the rights and needs of people with disabilities in our daily work and to continue to work to improve their self-determined participation in all areas of life. it is only fair to make it clear to those concerned that the huge progress is not going to happen overnight. we are dealing with a development process. i remember very well that 20 years ago this subject was completely ignored in the european parliament. today we are talking about a whole strategy for people with special needs, and the subject has entered the minds of all meps. isn't that a success in every way? i am critical of the call for a horizontal anti-discrimination directive. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it's been a matter of my heart for many years.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 30 november 2017.
the minutes and the texts adopted at the meetings of 29 and 30 november are available. * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * of the
i'm not going to let you go. i assume that mr president tajani will take your objections into account. the minutes of the meetings of 29 and 30 november were approved.
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 6 december 2017, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no changes. tuesday:the group of the european people's party has requested that a debate be held in the afternoon on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure to the commission proposal to authorise the use of phosphoric acid, phosphates, di, tri and polyphosphates (e 338-452) in deep-frozen vertical meat tenders.
thank you, thank you. (parliament adopted the resolution) a debate on the objection to the commission proposal to authorise the use of phosphates in deep-frozen meat dishes is scheduled for tuesday afternoon. the gue/ngl group therefore requests that the sitting be extended until 1 p.m.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not yes, in a nutshell. we are in favour of including this item on the agenda. but we would like to point out that we have a very full agenda on tuesday afternoon until 11 p.m. if we really want to discuss this matter seriously, it would be sensible to extend the agenda for that day until midnight.
thank you, thank you. (parliament adopted the proposal) the sitting will be extended until 12 noon tomorrow. the epp group also requests that the vote on the objection be postponed from tuesday to wednesday.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to ask if there's any guarantee that this important point will be put on the back burner when it's discussed. we are talking this afternoon about the situation in libya, we are talking about the iraq deal, we are talking about the common security and defence policy, and perhaps we should talk about kebab afterwards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's like in life, beauty is always in the eye of the beholder. but i assume we will deal with this after all the other items on the agenda. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has accepted two immunity reports by the rapporteurs lebreton and cavada. in accordance with rule 9 (9) of the rules of procedure, these two reports will be put to the vote at the voting time on tuesday. the agenda will be amended accordingly. wednesday: in agreement with the political groups, i propose the following amendments to the final draft agenda: the order of the last two items on wednesday afternoon is being changed. the oral question on the european parliament's right of inquiry will be dealt with as the penultimate point. the report by mrs corazza bildt on the implementation of the guidelines on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography is the last item. is there any objection? that's not the case. then it's settled. thursday:the european people's party group requests that the debate on the question on the dispute between the eu and norway over the fishing of arctic sea spiders in the waters of the spitsbergen archipelago be postponed.
this week the president, together with the president of the council, will sign 16 acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, in accordance with rule 78 of the rules of procedure. the titles of these acts shall be published in the minutes of this meeting. we have a further point of order: mrs fotyga.
i would like to thank you very much, mrs fotyga. i will also convey the content of your speech to president tajani.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report by mr albert deß, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union and amending regulations (eu) no 1305/2013, (eu) no 1306/2013, (eu) no 1307/2013, (eu) no 1308/2013 and (eu) no 652/2014 of the european parliament and of the council (com (2016) 0605 - c8-0404/2017 - 2016/0282b (cod)) (a8-0380/2017).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. in the negotiations, in the so-called omnibus procedure, we succeeded in the trilogue, whereby the committee on agriculture achieved targeted improvements for the four regulations of the common agricultural policy - direct payments, rural development, common organization of the market and horizontal regulation . i am all the more pleased that we have succeeded in bringing these important improvements to the agar part in time to take effect on 1 january 2018. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european parliament's negotiating team for their excellent cooperation in the interests of european agriculture, and in particular paolo de castro and michel dantin, who have been active in this process from the very beginning. i also want to thank our president, mr czesław siekierski, and the rapporteurs who have worked very constructively across all the political groups. i would like to thank the commission and, on behalf of the commission, mr michael niejaar and mr rudolf moegele, the administrative and functional team and the staff in the members' offices. finally, i would like to thank inge gräßle and the conference of presidents for supporting the division of the commission proposal. it was only with their support that a separate legislative report on the provisions of the agri mandate was possible. the committee on agriculture has tabled 505 amendments. after intensive negotiations, a package of 16 compromise amendments was drawn up. a broad consensus among other important political groups led to a very successful vote in the committee in may, with 34 votes for, 10 against and one abstention. this vote gave us a clear mandate for the negotiations between the three institutions. four trilogues were enough to reach a political agreement between parliament, the council and the commission on 12 october on the amendments to the four cap regulations. the agriculture committee then approved the agreement by a clear majority of 39 votes to 5. the compromise means more options for our farmers in greening and more security in permanent grassland. many measures are simplified, including the definition of 'active farmer'. we have succeeded in creating the possibility of more biodiversity. in the future, priority areas will be able to be used for growing honey plants, adult silphium and elephant grass. honey plants and adult silphium are flowering plants, and beekeepers are sure to be pleased. elephant grass helps prevent soil erosion after it is left standing over winter, and it also provides protection for the wildlife. in addition, the weighting factors for protein crops were increased from 0.7 to 1.0. this was also necessary because, in a way that i do not understand, the commissioner has prohibited the use of plant protection products on priority areas by means of a delegated act. this means that hundreds of thousands of hectares of protein crops are no longer being grown in europe. the factor 0.7 didn't work. we also increased the factor for multiannual rotation plantations from 0.3 to 0.5. this programme has so far been used very little. this increase in demand means that we can expect more demand. there was also a breakthrough in the permanent grassland. after the incomprehensible judgment of the european court of justice on permanent grassland, it was necessary to clarify matters. this judgment of the european court of justice has resulted in the replanting of some one hundred thousand hectares of grassland in my home country of bavaria alone, which had to be replanted in order to meet the five-year deadline. this was an impossible condition. mr president, i have been told that i have six minutes to speak: four plus two. i therefore ask for a short time to speak again, because i have made arrangements for that. the key to this agreement is that it will be retroactive and will provide legal certainty for the future. the conditions for the supplementary premium for young farmers have also been significantly improved. member states now have the possibility of significantly increasing the support rates for young farmers and paying them out for a full five years. support for young farmers can be better tailored to their needs. the instruments for risk management in rural development have been strengthened. a new sectoral income stabilisation instrument is being introduced. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european food safety authority (efsa) to ensure that the food chain is not affected by the presence of contaminants. unlike in the past, all recognised producer organisations can now negotiate their production and supply contracts on behalf of their members. it was important to create a derogation for cooperatives to avoid any infringement of the competition rules. i would like to conclude by asking the commission to implement all the decisions in a very unbureaucratic way. we are therefore doing more for europe's ecology and more for the legal certainty of european farmers. i'm glad everything went so well and i thank everyone who helped.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, mr albert dess and mr paolo de castro. on 14 september 2016, the commission presented the proposal for the revision of the multiannual financial framework. we in the agricultural sector have been affected by four basic acts. the european institutions are often ridiculed and reproached for the length of the proceedings. but that is unfounded. we've actually proven that when you work together, you can go very, very fast. it is all the more important for us now to vote tomorrow on the agricultural part of the omnibus regulation. we wanted to achieve all simplifications, and the simplifications must come into effect on 1 january 2018. the main areas have already been mentioned: it is about the active farmer, it is about the young farmer. it was also important to me that we clearly define the status of agricultural land and that this definition of grassland is now finally properly written down. the most important points, however, have of course been the greening and the extension of the planting of the ecological priority areas. here, the adult silphium and the honey plants for the bees are mentioned explicitly. the alde group is critical of changes to the common market organization, however, because we believe that the common market organization as it is now can actually lead to success if it is applied in the same way in all the other member states. we had a little disagreement here. it is important for us to vote in favour of this, to achieve an improvement for the farmers. we do not know whether the next common financial framework and the common agricultural policy will be adopted in time. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i think the balance sheet is at least grown through. not everything has been achieved, and not everything can now be described as real progress. i think that some overdue de-bureaucratization has been implemented, which we welcome. a better definition of greenland, or that it no longer needs to be overturned after five years - these are, i think, things to be taken for granted. but on the other hand, the weighting factors for greening have now become weaker. i have a different definition, mrs müller. why elephant grass and full-grown silphium are now considered an enrichment of the european agricultural landscape is something that only those who make biogas can understand. so actually i would put a big question mark on that. i would also like to put a question mark on the 'active farmer' issue. the commission wanted to abolish the definition altogether. we now leave it to the member states. but we must find a solution, because it is important that the european union's payments actually go to those who need them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we have now heard a proposal for reform from the commissioner. that's where we got more confusion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that we have not been able to agree, for example, on milk, that we can also consider voluntary reductions in quantities as a possibility in the future. i'm really sorry we couldn't make it. the next milk crisis will be when we are back with no answers for the farmers. i think we as a parliament must give this matter further consideration. we need a functioning market order and we also need rapid action by the commission. we have not achieved that in these areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. firstly, you could say that agricultural politicians can deliver. we had a common goal: we wanted to be finished by december, and we succeeded. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the council for coming together to get this done. secondly, it gives farmers the security of planning. farmers are resilient, they are innovative, but they naturally want to know what's coming to them. we have kept our word here too. the good things we have been able to record have all been mentioned by my predecessors. thirdly, there are still wishes to be made. two things were important to me, which the european parliament also decided on, but which unfortunately were not reflected in the omnibus regulation. firstly, i would have liked to see the omnibus extended, so that we could have let it run until 2024. this would have meant even more planning certainty, especially for rural support programmes. i simply ask the commission that if we do not get the new reform on track in time, we should take up this idea again and simply extend it. and secondly, i would have liked to see the programme of de-bureaucratisation - the keyword is reset - more clearly reflected in the omnibus regulation. but it's not every night.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank those in the house who have contributed to the failure to introduce reform by introducing numerous amendments. because some in this house thought that this was the back door to a new agricultural reform without involving society. some people thought that we were taking new reform steps here in a very rapid fashion in a direction that i could not have taken without involving society, without involving ngos, without involving consumer associations. we have had to simplify and improve things, and it is only through the many amendments that we have been able to simplify and improve things. i can therefore now also agree to this omnibus procedure. but the beginning was bumpy, and the beginning was not worthy of this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is what we have to do: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the members once again for their participation in this evening’s debate. i know very well that mr deß, mr de castro and all of you have been the soul of this initiative, which is very important, as it will enable you, with your vote tomorrow, to make the lives of farmers much easier all over europe. i am particularly happy – together with commissioner hogan, of course – about the change in the relationship with young farmers. the payment will always be granted per farmer for a period of five years, as long as a young farmer applies for the payment within five years of setting up for the first time. this goes hand in hand with our work together. mr hogan, as the commissioner for agriculture and rural development, and myself, as the commissioner for regional development, are both in favour of doing something for villages in order to keep young people there: otherwise we shall be in danger of having food agglomerations and empty countryside. regarding this proposal you have, i think, given us very good results. so, hand in hand, we have to work for rural development, and of course we have more support for farmers, not least in greece, and more activities in villages. this omnibus is a very important next step in the commission’s simplification agenda, an agenda on which, with parliament’s support, much progress has been made. indeed, the commission produced the omnibus proposal precisely because we believe that there is significant potential for simplification across a range of policy areas, including the area for which i am responsible. but we are a bit behind. tomorrow morning we will have the last trialogue about cohesion policy. the commission hopes that those who are negotiating other aspects of the omnibus proposal can take a lead from all of the agriculture negotiations, for we are setting an example. as i said, i want to acknowledge the role played by the rapporteur and all his colleagues in the progress that you have managed to make in such a short time. i would also like to thank the estonian presidency for its leadership in the council and for its collaboration with the other institutions in the trialogues. let me reiterate that the commission will not stand in the way of the agreement when it is put to the vote tomorrow. although, as i said, we had reservations from the point of view of competition, you, the european parliament, have agreed this, so the commission will stand by you. this is because of the progress that you have made and the benefits that will arise for millions of farmers and other common agriculture policy beneficiaries. thank you once again and congratulations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commissioner! i shall make it very briefly, after i have taken the speaking time. i thank all those who spoke, almost all of whom were in favour. i hope that we can now get the whole thing going well tomorrow with a good result, so that we can conclude this and everything can come into force on 1 january. the subject of young farmers has been raised again. i would like to point out that this year our delegation visited croatia. it is precisely young farmers who have been pushing for this, and esther herranz from spain has also been very active here. we now have a very flexible instrument here, depending on the needs. there are countries where there are few young farmers, and there you can increase it. where there are enough young farmers, there is no need to increase it. that is how i see european agricultural policy. i believe, madam commissioner, that at the end of these negotiations we have provided a model example of how the european union can work very quickly if there is the will to do so. i forgot in my opening speech to thank the estonian secretary of state, mr gorban, who negotiated very expertly and constructively for the council. otherwise these rapid results would not have been possible. i hope that society will cooperate accordingly, as was said in a comment. but i sometimes wish that society would take a closer look at the problems of agriculture. we have so many farmers giving up their farms. there will be many farms that will be free, where ngos can show us how to farm. but there 's very little demand: the hard work on the farms is something many people don't want to do. thank you for the whole process, and thank you for getting it done so quickly.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much once again. thank you for your various interventions. i really note with satisfaction that you have expressed major support for the compromise reached in our trialogue, which opens the way towards the adoption of this legislation by you as co-legislators. i wish to stress that the european parliament has been strong in its defence of the commission’s original proposal. thanks to this, this new legislation contains essential elements to ensure sustainable fishing, such as strict eligibility criteria for obtaining a fishing authorisation, a reference to scientific evaluations, a clear division of tasks between member states and the commission, and also rules to ensure full transparency on fishing activities. thanks to you, the european parliament, the regulation has also become more ambitious as regards the high seas and guarding the rules on transhipment. honourable members, this is an excellent result and i would like to thank you sincerely for your contribution to its success. now it is time for implementation. you can count on the commission to play its role so that we achieve effectively better monitoring of fishing vessels and improve the governance of the oceans.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 12 december 2017.
the next item is the debate on the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to maintain the current limitation of its application to aviation activities and to prepare for the implementation of a global market-based mechanism from 2021 (com2017) 0054 - c8-0028/2017 - 2017/0017 (cod)) (a8-0258/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, unfortunately my colleague, mr arias cañete, has been delayed by the bad weather, so i also have to represent him on this report. it is my pleasure to stand again in front of you for him and take part in your deliberations on the proposal on the european union emission trading system for aviation. the commission is glad that, on 18 october, the co-legislators were able to reach an agreement on this very sensitive file. i want to express a special gratitude to the rapporteur, ms girling, for her excellent work. it was instrumental to reaching a swift agreement. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their contributions and support. it was imperative to conclude this file before the end of the year. if the amendment to this directive does not enter into force by early 2018, the full scope – covering all flights to and from third countries – will kick off again. the agreement between this parliament and the council is a balanced and fair one. firstly, the deal ensure the continuation of the european union ets for intra-european flights beyond 2017. from 2021, the european union ets for aviation will be strengthened through the application of the 2.2% yearly emissions reduction. we are also committed to assessing how the sector passes its carbon costs onto its customers, with a view to increasing the auctioning share in the next review. secondly, the commission will report regularly to the european parliament and the council on international developments, notably on the implementation of corsia, carbon offsetting and a reduction scheme for international aviation. we know that a lot of work is still needed to make corsia operational by 2021. its rule book is being negotiated now and we have to remain vigilant. it is clear that we still have some challenges ahead before we can say that we have a robust and effective global scheme delivering what it is supposed to deliver. we also have to watch out to see whether and how our partners will translate these international measures into the concrete operationalisation of corsia rests on domestic action. as agreed, the commission will submit a new proposal to amend the ets directive, with the aim of implementing corsia in a way that is consistent with our climate target. finally the text agreed by the co-legislators contains an empowerment to adopt delegated acts on monitoring, reporting and verification of the emissions, and this is in order for the european union to be able to implement corsia in that regard. honourable members, in our view the agreed text strikes a good balance between the leadership we should continue to have by addressing aviation emissions, the reinforced european union ets, and the responsiveness of european union policies to international developments, notably the expected operationalisation of the scheme based on the assessment of their robustness and their effectiveness, which you asked the commission to produce. i am confident it can get wide support in the european parliament so that the legislation can enter into force early next year as planned.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not the proposal is dated 3 february 2017, parliament adopted its opinion on 13 september and, under the leadership of mrs girling, agreement has now been reached, which was also adopted by the council. it is my task to explain briefly the opinion of the committee on industry. we have agreed with the commission's proposal in principle from the outset. we have supported the limited scope, we have supported the exemptions for non-commercial aircraft operators with total annual emissions of less than 1 000 tonnes of co2 and we have called on the commission to push forward the development of the global market-based mechanism corsia. what the committee did not address is a point of agreement: subject to this review, the linear reduction factor will also be introduced for the aviation sector. we agree with that. the report was adopted by 51 votes to 5.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very warmly. thanks and praise are now coming from all sides. i must say that i was not entirely in favour of the way it had left parliament before. i think the outcome of the trilogue is very good. the fact is that parliament wanted to suspend aviation emissions trading between the eu and third countries only until 2020. i think that would have been really too soon, because by 2021 corsia is supposed to be introduced. i think it's great that it's finally happening at icao. i do not want to praise the icao in this way. but i have to say, i've been working on this for many years, and i was very skeptical at first that the icao would ever come up with a global proposal for a global emissions certificate system. now this, and this is very good. but we also have to see it happen. we have already seen in 2012 that the others resist when the eu tries to force them into a system they do not want. i think it's perfectly clear that with global aviation, we also need global tools to save the climate worldwide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. but i also have to say that the ets has not reduced emissions much. it is inefficient in its current configuration, in terms of climate targets and costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without fundamental reforms, i consider the ets to be a fraud and a classic example of greenwashing of polluting sectors such as aviation. air transport emissions are expected to be 70% higher in 2020 than in 2005 and could increase by a further 300-700% by 2050. the present system will not change that, and you know that, ladies and gentlemen. it's christmas soon, and you could give your constituents a treat by telling them the whole truth about the ets. in that spirit, i wish you all a happy holiday.
i am very grateful to the president-in-office for his reply. i also welcome the fact that the international civil aviation organisation has put forward a plan to reduce and offset carbon. we should look at this very critically. my scepticism is based on three points. first, corsia will only cover about one fifth of global climate/aviation emissions, because it does not apply to, among other things, domestic flights, nor to emissions other than carbon dioxide. secondly, it is not yet clear how the emissions will be offset. we have had bad experiences with compensation around the world. it is no coincidence that eu member states will no longer be allowed to use offsetting projects for their national climate targets from 2021. thirdly, and this is something i would like to stress, the compensation of greenhouse gas emissions is only the second best solution. we need to get as close as possible to zero greenhouse gas emissions. i therefore believe that technical solutions are preferable which prevent emissions at source. to sum up my point: aviation's climate emissions are a concern for all of us. the civil aviation organisation should therefore develop a procedure that is transparent and more involved with the public. it is therefore very important that the european parliament in particular should be able to review this plan very critically. i shall therefore be voting in favour of the commission's text tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. if we are talking about strengthening civil rights in the union of democratic change, i urge you to turn your attention to the federal republic of germany. what is happening in my country these days is a farce and it is a direct challenge to any notion of a free democratic society. as many of you probably do not know, in may of this year, after almost five years, a trial before the district court in koblenz was closed due to excessive length of proceedings after an incredible 337 days of trial. most of you may not be aware that this mammoth trial is the largest trial in german history. the indictment is almost 1,000 pages long. and since most of the defendants were in pretrial detention at the beginning of the trial, the cells in the koblenz courthouse were no longer adequate. half a dozen defendants were locked in transport vehicles outside the courthouse in the courtyard during the trial days, and the interior dimensions there were 80 by 80 centimeters. that's too low to even stand up straight. these are the circumstances one would expect in north korea and pakistan rather than in an eu country such as the federal republic of germany.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this european citizenship report is an important report to promote and strengthen the rights of eu citizens, and it applies equally to all eu citizens. in addition to the strengths, this report also highlights weaknesses in the implementation of european citizens' rights in the eu, which are often brought to our attention by means of petitions. and i must say that it is extremely important to me that citizens should turn to the committee on petitions. i must correct my colleagues from the enf on this point: the committee on petitions is not subordinate to the commission and is not accountable to it. we decide how we deal with petitions in the european parliament, and no one can talk us into it. i would like to take this opportunity to thank our rapporteur, mrs becerra basterrechea, for the good and close cooperation within our group and to express my regret that some groups also wanted to use this report to push their own political agenda, that is to say, to reformulate things that may be politically interesting but have nothing to do with citizenship of the union, such as an unconditional basic income, equal rights for immigrants and other third-country nationals as for eu citizens. this is a matter for political debate, but it is not part of this report on citizenship of the union, and the most important critical points have already been identified in the committee on petitions. i firmly believe that we will achieve a similarly good result in parliament when we vote and that my group will then be able to vote in favour of this report. and of course, we're on a path here, and we're going to have to continue on this path. it is important that we move forward in cooperation with parliament, the commission and the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have heard some technical and legal speeches today in this debate on citizenship of the union in 2017. colleagues who name details in individual problems. but this is not about marginalized groups being central and not being forgotten. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. and i know that we all have our constituencies, our home regions. we shall be going back on thursday, and those who take their mandate as seriously as i do will be going back to their home countries to meet people, to talk to the local people. that's what we should be discussing tonight. not the way we interpret citizenship of the union. no, it is about how our neighbours - the fish seller on the corner, the civil servant in the town hall, the farmer and the young person, if any - experience their citizenship of the union. how they find europe for themselves and whether they can say, quite personally, 'yes, this is my europe'. a europe that delivers. a europe that concerns me and represents me. in short, a europe of the people and the regions. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the governments of the member states. one that gives you identity and a home. one you like. one you're proud of. i hope so, and i will continue to work for it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i think what we can see, both now and after the work of the taxe special committee, is how important it is that we, as the european parliament, as the european chamber of citizens, as the european parliament, and as the member states, take action against money laundering and state-sponsored tax avoidance. why would you do that? the code of conduct group of member states and other cooperation between member states are inadequate. no member state can poke the eye out of another like a crow. this is the experience we have had in recent years, and only if we as the european parliament take a firm stand here, regardless of which government is in power in a member state, will we be able to take action against tax havens and places where the fight against money laundering is not being carried out as we imagine. we, as the house of commons, have the opportunity here not only to show the member states the limits but also to encourage them to act. we, as the european house of commons, are in a position to exert the pressure in public, which is certainly not created behind closed doors when member states discuss these matters. i hope that in future we will have better lists of tax havens outside the european union. i hope that we will also have lists of tax havens within the european union and the corresponding lists of countries which we consider to be money laundering havens and against which we want to take action. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues who are not here today. where are they? why is this chamber again yawningly empty? the most important committee of inquiry of this parliamentary term has been meeting for a year and a half. it was about tax evasion, criminal activity, money laundering, terrorist financing, issues which are of central importance for our future and for our society, and parliament does not seem to be interested in them. why is the chamber not packed today? why are the colleagues not curious to see what this committee of inquiry has found out? i wonder: mr simon has spoken of our being a people's parliament. what are we? how can our citizens understand what we have done if they do not at least take note of the work that has been done and the shortcomings? the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the third anti-money laundering directive, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. the president of the commission, mr pisani, has already said that he will not be voting on the report because it is not a matter of the council. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. you're here to pick on all the colleagues who aren't here. you know very well that colleagues work in some 70 of the meeting rooms here. don't you think this populism is a little cheap?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - what are you doing? sometimes in a parliament there are important things to be discussed, and i think today is one of those hours when we discuss something important. it is also up to the members to come to the plenary to take part in such a debate or at least to listen to it. what we have witnessed here is a great violation of justice. here you have the rich and the super rich and the super influential who just don't pay the taxes they should pay, who shift their earnings into some tax havens. and your party leader, the former president of this parliament, martin schulz, has made justice the central issue of his campaign. i wonder why there are not more social democrats in the plenary than there are now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have done a good job here over the past year and longer, across party lines. i would like to thank the commission very much for having incorporated into proposals much of what we have been working on here. but what we have here in the house is already annoying: we have 38 amendments and split votes in total, plus 12 others, 50 from the christian democrats and 34 from the liberals, which aim to weaken this report by a large majority. it is not a question of some details, but of some of these amendments or attempts to delete which are aimed at the heart of this report. i really ask you to look at this in detail again. it is not right that we maintain self-monitoring of money laundering in lawyers or accountants. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we need a minimum tax on the worst shifts in interest and royalties. it is also wrong for mr juncker to advocate majority voting, but you are deleting these very legislative proposals under article 116. please reconsider. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as chairman of the committee of inquiry, i would first of all like to thank all the members, the secretariat, the rapporteurs and also commissioner moscovici for the fair and good cooperation over the last year and a half. we've conducted 25 hearings, 11 studies and seven field visits. the result is now in and it is up to the political groups to accept the recommendations drawn up by the committee. i would ask that we do not end up with this report without any demands. we have to keep the pressure up! that is why i am in favour of setting up a special committee by the end of the legislature. and i hope the groups will find common ground here. 'transparency is the key', said mr moscovici. i doubt that we have already reached the paradigm shift. the cooperation of the member states with each other and with parliament is not very good. before eu member states adopt sanctions against third countries, they must put their own areas of responsibility in order. that's my conclusion from the panama papers. and that 's why i say: i personally will also support amendment no 14 by the socialists, which mentions four member states. and i ask everyone to come up with a resolution and a proposal tomorrow that will also create the necessary pressure.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs joly, we both had the opportunity to work on a report on money laundering. my question is this: are you in favour of having the blacklist with the names of the european countries included? secondly, is it not absolutely essential to follow the proposal of jean-claude juncker, who said: 'this terrible unanimity among the member states on taxation matters must be changed. what do you think?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the panama papers have revealed two main things to me. firstly, we need international cooperation to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. but that can only happen if we also build up the appropriate pressure to work together. and secondly, we must make it clear that we also have jurisdictions within the european union where tax saving models and tax design possibilities exist. i would have been glad if the social democrats had already approved my proposal in committee and not now promoted theirs. the failure to include european union jurisdictions in the blacklist decided by the finance ministers shows how little developed the sensitivities are here. and secondly, whoever made it onto the list - those 17 unfortunate countries - don't even have to expect sanctions. i believe that we europeans should do a little more to help dry up money laundering strongholds.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. when the efsi, the fund for strategic investments in europe, was launched in 2015, the commission informed us that it estimated the annual investment needs, the investment gap, at eur 700 billion. today the european investment bank tells us that the new fund has succeeded in reducing this gap by 100 billion euros. what does that tell us? firstly, the fund is useful, it helps. but secondly, it is far from sufficient to meet the additional investment needs of the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. that is what our report calls for and what we expect the commission to put forward. but let me say today that i am filled with joy and pride at what we have accomplished together. yes, there were voices that wanted to give us the advice, let's just keep it that way. the money will be called, it's fitting. the first stage, the first two years, was a success. but the european parliament wanted the fund to be better, to be more modern and to reach the regions where investment is most needed. i would like to thank josé manuel fernandes, my co-rapporteur, and all the rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, the committee chairman, their teams, the many, many helping hands in the background, who have made it possible for us to adopt today a very good report, a very good extension of this strategic investment fund until 2020. because the 91% support we have received in the two committees is proof that hard work has been done and that colleagues are behind this modern investment instrument. what has been achieved: additionality? no, and a project is no longer only a project if the european investment bank has calculated that it is particularly risky. it's a mathematical formula that doesn't really help us. we want at least 40% of the initiatives to contribute to the fight against climate change. we are committed to this and this will be the new great task. the cooperation with the regional and national promotional banks will be improved, because it will benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, which we particularly need in this struggle for prosperity and modernisation, for our industry, for our industrial enterprises in the modern era. the system will become more transparent and the allocation of funds more traceable. yes, we have created a solid system of indicators which objectively assess which projects are the best and which projects deserve special support. there is no business as usual, not even within the european investment bank. finally, we will send an independent expert, an independent expert or an independent expert, to the steering committee, which will improve transparency and cooperation. all of this will move us forward. i look forward to a fresh debate here in the plenary, to a good vote and then to an active, truly modern fund for the next few years until 2020.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the efsi is a major step towards state control of the economy, and this is fundamentally the wrong direction. we need free markets, we need social market economies, but not state control of the economy. that's not right. the efsi is also inherently flawed: it wants to stimulate additional investment, and no one has yet shown me how to measure it in a serious way. instead, it is always claimed that it is additional investment. in reality, however, we must assume that this is a case of mismanagement and of competition for the benefit of others. because we have a zero-interest policy in the eu, we have a money flood, there is enough money to finance meaningful projects. the question is: what are we really trying to achieve with the efsi? i'm convinced that there are many wonderful things put in the showcase here that will not stand up to closer examination and analysis. the efsi should therefore be rejected.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i shall not take advantage of the two minutes given the advanced time. i would like to make one comment, which i consider to be the most important: this fund for strategic investments in europe is necessary and useful. but this house, the european parliament, did not simply wave the concept through and reject it, neither the first time it was used in efsi i nor the second time, when it was extended. no, we designed it. it is, it was and it remains, a matter of great urgency that you, dear colleagues, should be involved in the implementation of this indispensable vehicle, because we must make it an instrument for a better quality of life and work, for greater sustainability and for the future of europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not in short, the regulation aims to simplify the legal clarification of online content, thereby making more content accessible to europeans and further bringing europe together. the regulation does not introduce a pan-european licence, as discussed. the range limitation remains possible. the regulation also explicitly provides for remuneration. i would have liked to see stricter rules for authors, but that was not possible with the majority. the report in the legal affairs committee is far behind the report in the consumer affairs committee and it is rightly behind the report or opinion in the culture committee, and thus follows the industry committee. i cannot see a balanced proposal. what we're going to see is consumers continue to use illegal access like vpns to consume content. no creative person in europe will see a penny extra for that. i think we europeans should not leave the audiovisual media to the big american corporations, but rather enable our european providers, with better legal rules, to provide access for our citizens. i want better access for citizens, for linguistic minorities in the european union, and i want fair remuneration for creatives. one last note: the portability regulation, which is being hailed as a success, is not helping here because it is only valid for limited periods of time, because it is only valid for access from the home country. that is why we should reject this mandate here today in the plenary and discuss it again together. the future of creative, digital europe is too important.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i ask you today to vote in favour of the mandate to start trilogue negotiations on the cabsat directive. we have discussed this matter for months in several committees and the report, which is in line with what was decided in the committee on industry and also in the committee on culture, was then adopted by a solid majority of 15 votes to 8 in the committee on legal affairs. i would like to say one thing about the content of this report: what is it about? it's about empowering our creatives in europe, empowering our filmmakers, empowering our screenwriters, our performers, our directors, empowering our creative content. what makes europe what it is, is our creative content. that's what this is about. it is not a question of consumer protection, it is not a question of access to content. last year we adopted the portability directive by a large majority. and i really do ask you: we have spent months studying this dossier in depth, and have agreed on a compromise line. and if we now go into the trilogue negotiations, that is not the end of the story, there are still developments. but let us begin the trilogue negotiations. we shall then come back and have another opportunity to discuss the report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not thank you for this vote. in fact, i've been working on this dossier for about a year in the legal affairs committee, trying to make europe more digital, to bring people closer together. i've never seen a lobbying operation like this one. this is really interesting. this is reflected, for example, in a very interesting debate, in the meetings we have had on this subject. i shall not, however, be taking part in the trilogue negotiations with this mandate and will therefore withdraw my name from this report. i believe that the digital europe deserved better.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. whenever we ask the question: 'what are we doing in europe?' if it is visible, if it is tangible, then i see that efsi is part of it. we call this the jean-claude juncker plan. ensure that strategic investments can take place. i'm very pleased about this solidarity fund. i am glad that we can say that we have no division between east and west. mr marias is constantly working on his speeches around the motto 'always against germany' and on the subject of austerity and so on. that's totally wrong. such enterprises must also be encouraged. it should also be of great benefit to the greeks. so i think the efsi is really an important milestone. we haven't gotten all the details right yet, but we're on the right track. the bottom line is clear. we are not leaving people to their own devices so that truly strategic investments with a future-oriented character can be realised. if we continue along this path, we will feel more: europe is not about leaving people alone. i think that jean-claude juncker has succeeded in this. i am glad we had a clear vote today. i have of course voted for the excellent report by mr bullmann and mr fernandes.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not attacks every day for over 16 years, thousands of civilian casualties, destruction of livelihoods every year, hundreds of thousands of people on the run, nato troop build-up and unlimited us military deployment does that sound like a safe country to you, a safe country of origin? in fact, it's the second safest country in the world. to put it in the words of pro asylum, afghanistan is not a safe country. and yet, despite the disastrous security situation, collective deliveries are being made from eu member states to afghanistan, as was the case in germany last thursday. what a grotesque, inhuman logic! even though some things have improved, nothing is really good. the military side of the conflict has not only caused numerous deaths with a huge number of unknowns, but also devoured huge sums of money. the sovereignty of the afghan state is still not guaranteed after more than a decade of us and nato-led interventions. on the contrary, the country is highly dependent on its external donors, security continues to deteriorate, budgets for civil society and democratization are being cut, and the military presence, especially offensive operations, continues to fuel the conflict. and yet this unsuccessful, destructive strategy is to be continued.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i believe this has been a very useful exchange and i thank you so much for your interventions and your contributions in this debate. from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in using eu diplomatic power and eu financial instruments to their full potential in support of a peaceful and prosperous afghanistan. in 2016 the afghan government made strong commitments towards self-reliance, responsibility and ownership of its political course and development policy. the european union, as part of the wider international community, remains firmly committed to supporting the government and the people of afghanistan in this endeavour. the government of afghanistan’s continued engagement and appropriation of its commitments will be essential for this to be successful. our european support to afghan refugees has been demonstrated in many areas and in many aspects. i personally visited iran twice to show the tangible european solidarity on the ground in various areas there. in particular, i witnessed in a very demanding field, education in emergencies, our tangible solidarity there. so i strongly believe that, as the european union, we are fully committed in order to provide any assistance to the afghan people, not only inside afghanistan but also outside afghanistan. a few words about irregular migration. irregular migration to europe is a reality and it needs to be addressed. together with the country of origin, we do address it from a comprehensive angle in the spirit of the partnership framework, looking in the wider context at the causes of migration: poverty, conflict, insecurity. we are trying to remedy those causes with our instruments, political and diplomatic security, and development cooperation. in our discussions and actions we pay particular attention to sustainable reintegration of returned persons, not only from europe, but also from the region, from where the biggest numbers of returns take place. it is about creating opportunities in the country of origin so that young afghans find reasons to build their lives there, and not choose the dangerous irregular migration route and become victims of human traffickers. finally, let me thank you and the european parliament as a whole for your continued support of all efforts leading towards lasting peace, stability and prosperity in afghanistan.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, last month i was in bangladesh together with the foreign ministers of two member states, germany and sweden. this was another way of showing teamwork and the joint action of european union institutions plus member states. i was in bangladesh in one of the largest camps hosting rohingya refugees. when you see the camps with your own eyes, when you talk to the people there, when you hear the stories, and when you see the reality on the ground, it makes quite a difference. the thing that struck me the most was the number of young children – i have to say children of my little daughter’s age, six or seven years old – taking care of younger children who were two or three years old. these were children who were travelling together. the older ones were raising the little ones, but we are talking about children we normally consider very, very, very little. it is hard to imagine what that must feel like because these kids are forced to grow up. they are stripped of their right to childhood, and this is going to stay for the rest of their lives. i also met a group of women and heard from them about the violence they had suffered and the violence against their children. when you have heard these stories once, you will never ever forget them. when you hear these stories, action is no longer just a political priority, but it becomes a sort of moral imperative. i am telling you this because sometimes we have to link the political dynamics to stories, faces and people. that same night, i met with the prime minister of bangladesh, not only to express the european union’s support for the country, but also, and most importantly, to discuss possible solutions to the crisis. since the camp is in an area where it is certain that when the rainy season starts, the situation will become impossible to manage. it is a camp hosting some 650 000 people in one place. the day after that visit – the day after i talked to the prime minister of bangladesh – i was in myanmar for the asia-europe meeting. right before the summit, we asked to set up a special meeting with all the ministers who were there, including aung san suu kyi, to discuss the situation of the rohingyas and to find a way forward together. it was a quiet meeting with no cameras and no publicity, but it was a very important one. we agreed at that meeting on a shared perspective to start facing the crisis, step by step, but with commitments and with strong regional and international involvement. just a few days later, – actually, if i am not wrong, three days later – a deal between myanmar and bangladesh was announced and signed. we had discussed that deal during that meeting. we had encouraged the two parties to discuss together the first steps that could be made. we know very well that it is still an extremely difficult situation and that implementation of that agreement will have to be accompanied and monitored extremely carefully by the international community, but this is finally a first step in the right direction after months, if not years or decades, of inaction or actually, even worse, sometimes of turning a blind eye. it could be an entry point to address the crisis from a bilateral point of view between bangladesh and myanmar and, together with the agencies, starting from the unhcr. for us, this comes after several months of intense engagement. i was here when you adopted your last resolution in september. one month later, we adopted conclusions on the crisis in the foreign affairs council. in the light of the disproportionate use of force by the army, we also decided to suspend invitations to the commander in chief of the myanmar armed forces and other senior military officers, and to review ongoing practical defence cooperation. meanwhile, we have been active at the un human rights council. first, we supported the extension of the fact-finding mission’s mandate. second, we supported a special session on myanmar last week and the resolution proposed by bangladesh. we also supported the resolution at the un general assembly’s third committee. beyond public statements and beyond the political and diplomatic work we have carried out in these months, we stepped up our humanitarian assistance and co—hosted the un pledging conference in october in geneva. as usual, the european union has pledged more money than anybody else. if you look at the european union and member states together, we pledged more than the rest of the world combined. let me add that our pledges always turn into real money and real projects that help real people, meaning that we always deliver on our pledges. but the humanitarian work alone is not enough. we have to solve the problem. it is now up to myanmar to improve the situation in the rakhine state so that everyone can go back to their homes in a safe and dignified way. the rule of law and full humanitarian access must be granted as a first step. so far the government has granted access to the red cross and the world food programme in rakhine state, but we will continue to press for full access to the broader un and ngo community. at the same time, the people of rakhine must be guaranteed the right to education and basic social services, and the difficult issue of citizenship must be addressed, all in line with the annan plan. let me say that this is perhaps the most important political point to me. the authorities of myanmar have declared their intention to fully implement the annan plan. aung san suu kyi has expressed her willingness and commitment to do so, not only in our private meetings, but also in our common press activities and publicly several times. we know very well that she faces an extremely complex situation in the country. the democracy of myanmar is a very young one. the country is still somehow in a democratic transition, and the path towards an inclusive and pluralistic democracy is never easy, particularly after so many years of military rule. i believe that aung san suu kyi needs and wants our support to implement fully the annan plan, to translate the political commitment into real action, and to do it, step by step, accompanied by the international community and other countries in the region. in the coming days and weeks, we will continue to work for dignified voluntary returns based on the bilateral agreement between bangladesh and myanmar. we will push for humanitarian access in rakhine state, based on the first openings made by the government, and we will work to address the root causes of the crisis and push for the full implementation of the annan report. i am sure that the european parliament will continue to contribute to such work that will hopefully bring results, although probably not within a very short time period. however, i believe that the first steps in the right direction have finally been taken even if, again, i am not hiding all the limits, difficulties and shortcomings that we will still be facing in the months ahead. this is why we have to continue working in that direction together.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not thank you, mrs mogherini. i would like to express my gratitude on behalf of the european people's party for your commitment. you have not only fought for rohingya rights with words, but you have convinced on the ground and promoted international agreements. thank you very much. the demands of parliament in september are therefore on the right track. i believe that we, as the european union, can contribute in particular to ending the violence, intimidation and expulsion of the rohingya muslim minority in myanmar. i would like to thank you, as chairman of the asean delegation, for your letter yesterday, in which you again listed the measures you have taken. we stand with the commission and i am particularly grateful to you for the concluding remark in which you said that myanmar is a young democracy. i doubt it's a democracy at all. the military is in power and aung san suu kyi is not a full-fledged head of government, but is the special envoy of the president and minister of foreign affairs. the commission's role is therefore limited. we visited them in the spring and saw firsthand how difficult the process is. today it is on the agenda. it is right to sanction the military leadership. it is right to enforce the return to bangladesh. it is right to give humanitarian aid to the rohingya. it is right to review the devastating situation in february. we therefore support all your activities, mrs mogherini, and we hope that there will soon be a sensible solution for the rohingya minority.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, almost four months have passed since the operations by the military in northern rakhine state started. the ethnic cleansing campaign has not stopped, and refugees are still arriving in bangladesh. the council stated in october that it may consider additional measures if the situation does not improve, and we urge you, high representative, to put more pressure on the myanmar authorities. this includes imposing travel bans and targeted financial sanctions on military and police commanders that are suspected of being responsible for the crimes committed. just last week, the un high commissioner for human rights warned that even genocide cannot be ruled out. the eu also needs to pressure the civilian government to refer jurisdiction over the crimes committed since 25 august to the international criminal court. self-referral is possible under article 12(3) of the rome statute. the perpetrators of the grave human rights violations in myanmar must be held accountable, including those who hold high military rank. the civilian government has the responsibility to fight impunity as best it can. the current situation in rakhine state does not allow safe and sustainable returns, according to the unhcr’s assessment, and there is a huge threat that refugees may be forcibly returned. any returns can only take place when safe and dignified conditions can be guaranteed. independent human rights monitoring, as well as full humanitarian access on the ground, must be a prerequisite for any repatriation. finally, high representative, let me add that you showed us the step-by-step approach now being taken, but none of the steps referred to fighting impunity. i think it is essential not to do this any later.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank you very much, very honourable high representative, and very honourable colleagues. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for your efforts to bring peace to the situation, mrs mogherini. i think this is a decades-long structural discrimination and segregation of the rohingya. i do not think, however, that this is a purely bilateral problem. i think it's more of a global problem. the question is, what can we do? i believe that this requires first of all a fact-finding mission, that there is also an urgent need for humanitarian aid and that we also urgently need international observers to do this. moreover, i think it is necessary to impose targeted sanctions on the members of the military and security apparatus who have just been guilty of this. i think we have to do our best, and we cannot think that doing anything is enough.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the un calls the rohingya the most persecuted minority in the world. the persecution, murder and expulsion of the rohingya is not a recent development, but it seems that the world has not been looking at it properly until recently. since burma's independence in 1948, there have been 20 military actions into rohingya territory. hundreds of thousands have been forced to flee their country, 1.5 million rohingya are already living in exile, their villages and towns have been devastated, tens of thousands have been murdered, and their property has been handed over to the burmese. after the buddhist monks' revolution and the release of nobel prize winner aung san suu kyi from house arrest six years ago, there was a faint hope of a cautious democratization of the country. however, the situation of the rohingya has not changed. on the contrary, the military showed its power, continued to kill, continued to devastate rohingya villages and homes, and forced many hundreds of thousands to flee again. humanitarian aid for the refugees is needed in the wretched camps in which they are held. but at the same time, we need political solutions. the eu has provided €700 million in development funding to myanmar since 2014. these are conditional on the rohingya finally being recognised as citizens. political solutions must also be found at regional level, because neighbouring countries such as bangladesh are also affected by the mass displacement. the whole international community must now be involved.
rapporteur. – mr president, in her global strategy of june 2016, ms mogherini defined the times we live in today as ‘times of predictable unpredictability’ and i believe, dear federica mogherini, that you were right in your analysis. the different situations we are facing in our eastern neighbourhood, in our southern neighbourhood, in the middle east, in large parts of africa, in north korea, or – and how we will be able to convince ourselves at tomorrow’s sakharov prize ceremony – in latin america, as well as our challenging relations with russia and china, are all emerging as huge political challenges for our union and our member states. with this annual report on the common security and defence policy, we try to identify the major issues our union faces and outline a possible way forward. according to the last survey conducted by eurobarometer, 65% of europeans are in favour of a common european foreign policy, while even 75% are in favour of a common security and defence policy. the european union ought to deliver on the expectations of its citizens. in my report, the first report i have presented, i focused on the three ‘c’s. firstly, coordination of an assessment of the profound threats and challenges within the eu. we have to scrutinise the current political and security environment and take measures to guarantee the security of our people and our territory. this will for most be achieved by stabilising our direct neighbourhood, such as the western balkans, by promoting reforms and tackling the root causes of armed conflicts. the second ‘c’: consolidation and deepening of the european project through enhanced eu capabilities. the european union – as we all know – is the biggest market in the world, a major political and diplomatic power, the first trade partner for most of the countries and regions in the world, and the first humanitarian and development donor worldwide. i am convinced that only a coherent coordinated action across these eu policies can harness the eu’s collective force. finally, the third ‘c’: cooperation within coalitions and with institutions delivering security. the european union must continue to develop its strategic autonomy and to create its own capabilities to better address regional and international conflicts. in an increasingly conflict—ridden and unstable international environment, only a combination of effective multilateralism, our soft power and our credible hard power can be capable of confronting those major security threats. a final remark: yesterday’s agreement to establish the permanent structured cooperation marked a huge step forward towards an independent and strong eu security and defence policy, and thus to a certain degree of hard power. finally, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for the good and fruitful cooperation. it was a pleasure to witness the largest political groups in this house collaborate closely towards a stronger common foreign and security policy for our union.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the commission has also decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 108 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in respect of the following cases: after eight years of white smoke, this is a cause for celebration, as our longstanding parliamentary demand for the start of permanent structured cooperation has finally been implemented by the council. i would remind you, mrs mogherini, that you worked with the member states for only a few months to get pesco up and running. we in the european parliament have been working on this since 2009, when the lisbon treaty came into force. in 2010, the parliamentary call for pesco was first raised by mr danjean in the gsp annual report. we have not let go of this subject since then. we have found support in many political groups, so much so that in 2016 the report on the european defence union by our colleague paet identified pesco as a key building block of the defence union. the defence union is designed to give us a measure of control over our destiny and to organise and guarantee the security of our citizens and of the union itself. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the lisbon treaty has already been adopted by 28 governments and ratified by 28 national parliaments. we do not need a new treaty for this, we just need to implement what we agreed years ago. i would like to say to the transatlanticists among us that the possibilities of the eu treaty are very much compatible with our nato obligations. we stand by nato and want to help the eu to strengthen the european pillar within the alliance with concrete measures. it is very good that the commission's reflection paper is realistic in its defence of eu offers to support cooperation. the eu's contribution to strengthening defence capabilities is indeed to create incentives for member states to cooperate more in research, capability development and procurement. this is also in the interests of nato, since, as we know, the member states have only a single set of forces which they can put at the disposal of both the eu and nato or a coalition of the willing. it is very good that the commission is continuing its plans for eu-funded defence research. the european parliament had already launched the first budget line for defence and defence research as a pilot project in the 2015 and 2016 budgets. the overall objective remains to provide eur 500 million per year for defence research from 2021 the beginning of the next financial period. the reasoning is very simple: those who are already cooperating in research will do so in development, procurement and military use. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the programme is to be allocated eur 500 million in 2019 and 2020. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the right to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. the proposal offers the chance for national defence ministries and procurement offices to actually enter into cooperative programmes. i would like to return to pesco: in march of this year, together with my colleague gonzález pons, i put forward our parliamentary ideas on pesco. these are more ambitious than the projects agreed here. pesco is more than pepco permanent project coordination. i am glad, however, that in yesterday's pesco decision the council has taken up our central demand to pay the costs of structured cooperation from the union budget, that is to say administrative and operational costs outside military operations. i look forward to hearing what our budget commissioner, mr oettinger, has to say about the financing of pesco. we in parliament, together with the council, are called upon to make the budget available quickly. the council should also take the opportunity to make the athena mechanism for financing military operations user-friendly, i.e. with far more shared costs. the latest proposals from the commission and the council have launched the countdown to the european defence union. now is the time to bring all the loose ends together in an eu white paper on security and defence, so that we can clearly present to our citizens the goal and the path towards a defence union. i look forward to your support as we embark on this common european path!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european union is a great example of this. equipped for what? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i have just spoken here against the wish lists of the arms industry, and in this report they are already wish lists and budgetary frameworks. how difficult and, for the most part, futile it is to scrape together funds for genuine development aid and poverty reduction. the eu's multi-billion-dollar programme for defence research, development and procurement was completed within six months, despite the article 41 (2) ban on funding. the mcallister report speaks of peaceful and diplomatic conflict resolution and indivisible human rights, but at the same time it shows the reality: all the disasters caused by military interventions, eu-funded refugee defence and prisons for refugees, deaths at sea and in the desert. this eu policy has just been heavily criticised by amnesty international. with pesco - led by germany and france, by the way, and with the abolition of the consensus principle - as a further step towards military union, we are saying goodbye to an eu that was supposedly created to preserve peace, and the flood is coming. - i'll see you later.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, a big thank you to david mcallister and michael gahler for their trusting and productive cooperation. the mcallister report sums it up: it is about a combination of effective multilateralism, joint soft power and credible hard power. that's what it's all about, the combination of soft power and hard power. we can be proud of our soft power and we must develop it further in the future. because it's not about a pendulum swinging from soft power to hard power, as if one was yesterday's snow and the other our future, but it's about both. but you can't do it without hardpower. there's a lot to do. how can we work better in the eu? more efficient, for example, by joint procurement and research. i simply cannot stand by and watch mrs lösing from the gue group make the same false claims every time, as if we were trying to set off an arms spiral here, and then leave the chamber because she is not really interested in the debate. we should not accept this without objection. "the world has gone mad", said a former german foreign minister. we can no longer rely on the united states alone. we must take security in europe and around the eu into our own hands. this is fair to the united states and unfortunately necessary, especially as the us president is increasingly turning from a guarantor of security into a security risk. we'll have to discuss a lot more. what will be the financial contribution from the member states? what role does parliament have to play in concrete terms, and how will we shape the joint project to limit and control arms exports? we're off to a good start. we owe this in large part to you, mrs mogherini, your clear, straightforward approach and your tenacity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's common foreign and security policy has many facets. i welcome closer cooperation in the field of procurement as well as in the field of research. it makes a lot of sense. it also makes a lot of sense that we complement our different defence capabilities within the eu in a meaningful way; not everyone has to have every specialty. but there is an absolute ceiling on this. i am saying explicitly that in the current state of the eu - this state of fragmentation - i cannot see how we can talk about a common eu army at the moment. that doesn't make sense right now, we should get rid of it. that would be dangerous, because it suggests that we have a clout that we don't have. instead, we must strengthen cooperation within nato. nato has been and is the guarantor of peace and freedom, particularly in europe. so we have to focus on that and only take the steps that we can actually take in a sensible direction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in germany we have a minister of defence, mrs von der leyen, who has put the german armed forces in a state where submarines do not dive, helicopters do not fly, and fighter planes and tanks have failed. the only progress that could be reported in the german bundeswehr in recent years was the introduction of maternity uniforms for female soldiers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. well, then, easy. the european union is not a military alliance, but a military alliance. but where it has not defended but has actively intervened in third countries, it has caused more problems than it has solved. there's a lot of talk about hybrid wars. the answer to hybrid warfare is not conventional armies. on the contrary, it would be the reintroduction of military service, also in germany. a defense fund, that sounds nice. what is actually planned here is something else: aggressive capabilities in the hands of some eu officials. i reject that.
i have to say, madam president, i very much regret that the report on the implementation of the common security and distribution policy only deals very marginally with the problem of arms exports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european arms industry is not left behind. i think it is good that she is taking up the subject, but i expect her to at least respect the already existing european export criteria also for germany. we cannot develop a coherent european foreign policy if the eu member states continue to export arms and ammunition to third countries without coordination. i have tabled amendments to this effect, which unfortunately have not been incorporated by the rapporteur in the report. in it i called on the member states to decide together within the european framework to which countries they export arms. the european parliament should also be involved in decisions on the export of armaments which will in future be co-financed from the eu budget under the european defence fund. this is also in line with a reflection paper on security and distribution policy issued by the s&d group in november this year.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. those who know me know that i am not a fan of the "more europe" slogan. i want a europe that delivers. and that is why i welcome the more european defence policy, quite explicitly for peace, not as a purely arms supplier. i would like to thank the defense policy experts of the free voters for their expert input. i'd like to welcome pesco. today, 25 of the 28 member states are already on board. i welcome the agreed priorities, from cybersecurity to training to the joint emergency centre. it is also important for me to develop the technical structures to understand each other in the diversity of languages. i am critical of the brussels headquarters. we already have command centres, including in neu-ulm, which have experience and are doing a good job. these structures should be strengthened.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you to the rapporteurs, and to all of you. this is the result of a common work that needs now to be continued. let me start by saying that i count on this common work to continue in the months and the years ahead. some of you were asking if we can be optimistic today. i know that we are not used to that. it is about realism and pragmatism today more than optimism. to quote a great figure of the last century and partially also of this one, nelson mandela said that ‘it always seems impossible until it’s done’. this is exactly such a case, where everybody was predicting that this would be impossible for various reasons. the work on the european defence would be impossible because the political conditions were not there, and because of this and that, and we proved that political conditions can be created when there is determination and when there is the support of our citizens. as some of you mentioned – i think it was david mcallister – our citizens strongly support our common work at european union level on security and defence and also on foreign policy, and this creates the political conditions for us to deliver. on this, there is a top priority for our citizens. this has also been possible, and will continue to be possible, which is even more important because we decided at a certain moment to move from the theoretical ideological approach and debate on european defence and security work to a practical, useful and concrete approach, consisting of single actions that could improve our work on security and defence, delivering on the needs of our citizens. madam president, i will address most of the concerns and questions of members of parliament who are no longer here, which probably means that their concerns were not so urgent. it is more difficult to work with facts and practical decisions to be taken than to stick with stereotypes. however, if you look at the facts, we are not talking about creating a european union army: all 25 member states that are launching the permanent structured cooperation are going to continue to keep their national forces. they are also going to continue to use their capabilities, either in european union missions and operations or in nato if they are nato allies, or in un peace-keeping missions or in other ways. what we are doing is not militarisation; we are not working on the militarisation of our union. we are not turning our union, which is and will remain a political union and a force mixing hard and soft power, as most of you remember. we are not turning this into a militarisation approach; on the contrary, when i say that our missions and operations will be even more needed in the months and the years to come, it is exactly because the world needs more and more missions and operations like the european union ones, which are working for peace in a cooperative manner on the ground. this is what is required. this is a different approach – the european way – and this is what is needed in the world today. the force for peace sometimes also requires hard force and military means, but they must always be used for the service of peace. we have not weakened, duplicated or entered into competition with nato. when i say proudly that we have never worked so well and so much together with nato in the fields where nato doesn’t have the instruments to work on some threats, and that we have useful cooperation with nato as a military alliance, i find it a bit strange to hear that this would mean that the european union would be subordinate to the united states. the following two debates are going to be on the iran nuclear deal and on jerusalem. i have the impression that we are putting strategic autonomy in practice in these times, so maybe we might face the contrary problem down the road. but i think we have to get out of the pre-cooked ideological arguments that we are sometimes used to using in the political debate and look at the reality. reality changes, and this reality has changed in the european union, thanks in part to the work of this parliament, to a lot of determination and sometimes to our stubbornness. the last myth that we have to overcome is that it is about spending. how much member states spend on defence is up to national governments and national parliaments. it’s not even up to this parliament, but to the way in which these investments are made, whether it’s an efficient or inefficient way of investing which means together or not together, in a fragmented or in a coordinated manner. for example, investing in a european manner or buying in a european manner. again, strategic autonomy in industry is an area in which the european union can make a difference. so, there are national decisions, but the european union is the only one – and nato and our american friends have understood this perfectly well – that can change the fundamental factor of spending better on the european union side. my last two points are very specific ones. one is to answer ms alliot—marie: i am already preparing an annual report on the csdp, and i would be very pleased to use this opportunity for the european parliament to include a report on progress on this specific issue. i think it is going to be very useful to carry on the work in a practical, concrete and punctual manner, including on the resources that we will have to allocate in the future to sustain the ambitions which we are defining. the very last point, madam president – and i am sorry to raise this – but this is a debate about european foreign security and defence policy. it’s about the comprehensive approach bringing together different tools and instruments. the work of the parliament is extremely valuable in this field – unique, i would say. i would not have made it without the work of the parliament. it is quite sad for me to see that in one afternoon this plenary has eight points on the agenda on foreign policy. this is fragmentation, and it is a waste of the visibility and working capacity of the plenary itself. obviously, it is your autonomous choice, but if you could streamline a little more the focus of foreign policy debates, i think this would be added value for the work of the parliament.
rapporteur. – kiitoksia paljon arvoisa puheenjohtaja, hyvät kollegat, i would like to thank once again colleagues and a considerable majority in this house who support this policy on cfsp and pesco. i would also like especially to thank the high representative – sitting on the council side she has another hat, the hat of the head of the european defence agency – for recognising and appreciating the contribution of parliament today. apart from that, it does not make sense to repeat wrong things, it does not make them more true. just to reiterate, it is of course not about the militarisation of the eu. we will definitely not be financing military operations out of our budget in the future. we will definitely not be buying tanks or aircraft or helicopters out of the eu budget in the future. rightly so, this remains with the national budgets and with the national governments and parliaments. but we have to become more efficient. this exercise is primarily a ‘more efficiency’ exercise, because if we plan together, if we procure together, if we train together, that makes us more efficient in the tasks ahead. there are some colleagues from the fringes, from the periphery, for instance in greece, both the far right-wing and the far left-wing, who identify mr erdoğan as one of their major enemies. well, in nato he could block everything – if we had to rely on nato, any veto from any member state would definitely block our access to nato resources. we need a certain amount of strategic and operational autonomy as the eu, in order to be able to do what we deem appropriate. and insofar as the world, unfortunately, does not consist solely of stable democracies, then we also need this tool within our foreign policy instruments that we are establishing here today.
rapporteur. – madam president, everything has been said, so, in the end, i would just like to thank all colleagues in the house, especially those who are still present, for an open and honest debate. thanks for your criticism and for your positive remarks. instead of summing up the debate – which is anyhow impossible in two minutes – i prefer to cite the eu treaty. federica mogherini, i would like to thank you, pursuant to article 36(1) of our treaty, for consulting the european parliament on the main aspects and the basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and common security and defence policy (csdp) and informing it of how those policies evolve. i would also like to thank you in advance for article 36(2) ensuring that the views of the european parliament are duly taken into consideration. i think this was a very fruitful debate. hopefully we will have good votes on our reports tomorrow. a final remark: the high representative has just pointed out, correctly, that we are debating eight foreign policy issues in a row in the plenary. this is decided by the conference of presidents, and i would like to ask all colleagues to address this in their political groups so that we can avoid this in the future. in the meantime, we should all bring forward the good arguments that we have once again heard from the high representative, but it is up to us to make it clear to the conference of presidents that we can organise this parliament better than we are at the moment. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the united nations has confirmed: iran is fully compliant with the agreements. we have now negotiated a deal for 12 years, and at the same time donald trump is declaring iran an enemy of the us, declaring the revolutionary guards a terrorist organization, criticizing the ballistic missile program and cooperation with north korea. but none of this has anything to do with the nuclear deal. what iran needs now, two years after the deal was signed, is the lifting of sanctions. iran needs jobs, iran needs prospects for its youth. iran is sticking to the agreement. iran has been involved in the fight against and the destruction of isis in iraq and syria. he has brought peace in syria within reach, together with russia, and the principle of non-interference in internal affairs should also become more and more the primacy of eu foreign policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the international atomic energy agency has now confirmed for the ninth time, less than a month ago, that iran is fully complying with the so-called nuclear deal. the deadline for the us congress to decide what to do after president trump's decertification expired last week with no result. now the president must decide whether to continue the lifting of sanctions. we call on our american friends to uphold the treaty and to work with us to find solutions to the other current challenges with iran. we also condemn iran's missile programme. we do not turn a blind eye to the human rights situation and to iran's interference in other conflicts in the region or its incitement against israel. but there will be no renegotiation, as we know. it is absurd to say that because we are not succeeding in other areas, we are destroying the only thing that has been achieved that is really positive. in this respect, the treaty is the only way for us at present to build a new foundation of confidence with iran, step by step, on equal footing. the european union is the only country in the world which has not yet adopted a common position on the nuclear issue.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the high representative and also her secretary general, helga schmid, for their tireless commitment to preserving the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa). be assured that you have the full support of a broad majority of this house. as we have heard – and many speakers have pointed this out – the jcpoa is a multilateral agreement endorsed by the un security council and it should be preserved by all means. in every future action, we should remember that the negotiation process took around 12 years. we should not tire of making clear to our us counterparts – and this is exactly what a committee on foreign affairs mission to washington did last month – that, firstly, iran is in full compliance with the jcpoa, as reported repeatedly by the international atomic energy agency, and, secondly, iran’s ballistic missile tests are outside the scope of the jcpoa. however, iran’s regional posture, its ballistic missile programmes and the human rights situation remain deeply worrying. i remain concerned by the tensions in the region and the deteriorating relations between iran and its neighbours, notably the military build—up in the region and confrontational rhetoric by all sides. nevertheless, the international community would not be in a better place to deal with any of these issues without the jcpoa in place.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. yes, iran is a dictatorship. iran is responsible for the proxy wars, together with saudi arabia, especially in the region. iran is conducting missile tests which should not be carried out under un resolutions and is committing dramatic human rights violations. it's all true. but still, this nuclear deal has to be there. the nuclear deal is also a signal to north korea to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. if this is cancelled, how can you make an agreement with someone else not to build nuclear bombs? and if iran builds nuclear bombs, saudi arabia and all the countries in the region will build nuclear bombs as well. this has been avoided so far. the agreement says that the moment they break the rules, the sanctions can be reintroduced at any time, so that we either buy time here or in the long run maybe avoid nuclear weapons in iran altogether, in order to avoid a dramatic change in the region and far beyond. president trump has the ball back in his court. mrs mogherini, i hope that the talks will succeed in persuading him not to take the steps that he can now take again, after the congress failed to take any constructive decisions. i notice how so many: iran is sticking to the agreement. we should abide by the agreement, this agreement is part of international law. only the americans want out. no one else. that is why we should pursue our policy of securing this agreement to prevent further expansion of nuclear weapons in this world.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. the gdr was not recognized as a state by the federal republic of germany. that is why they did not open an embassy there, but a permanent representation. east berlin was not a full-fledged part of the gdr. berlin as a whole was subject to the four-power status. but no one came up with the idea of not setting up the permanent representation in east berlin. all the eu countries had their embassies in east berlin, of course, and not in dresden or leipzig or anywhere else. it is therefore quite remarkable that a state like germany and other eu states that recognize israel as a state, with a chancellor who says: israel's security is the german state's reason, that such a country does not put its embassy in the capital, in the self-chosen, sovereignly elected capital of a state. and it is also remarkable that the high representative is promoting the one-state solution for all of europe and her supporters are promoting the two-state solution for israel. this is wrong, and there will be no security in this region until the palestinians also recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr trump has been an arsonist with his jerusalem plans, a deliberate inciter of hatred and a deliberate serious threat to the middle east peace process. new violence is the result. but i also say that burning israeli flags and anti-semitic attacks cannot be the answer. the eu needs now more than ever a common voice of reason and prudence for a two-state solution, for the power of negotiation against the power of war. europe must play an even more active role in the mediation process. because mr. trump has just stepped down as mediator of this process. now is the time for the eu to act. mrs mogherini, what do you think of the fact that you are announcing increased efforts towards a peace process, but at the same time stressing that there will be no specific eu initiative? but that's what the world needs right now.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. jerusalem is the capital of israel. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union. it's not about the inventions of the modern age. let us name another problem: in berlin, in paris, throughout europe, palestinians and their allies are demonstrating against israel. they burn israeli flags, they set fire to banners with the star of david, and the police let them do it. i'm ashamed of it. those who burn flags are supposed to be burning all decency, all tolerance, and spreading hate that destroys people. hate can never be our partner! we are united in our opposition to all the new anti-semitic, anti-zionist violence! let us have courage! let us set the tone as europeans! let us stand for the only democracy in the middle east, for the right of israel to exist, for jewish culture! we europeans must send a clear signal that jerusalem is the capital of israel.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: trump's current unilateral recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel is contrary to a two-state solution and a middle east peace process. i expressly support the clear stance of the eu's foreign affairs ministers, who have repeatedly and forcefully criticised the us president's decision. federica mogherini is reinforcing the message of the eu member states, which last friday at the united nations publicly expressed their opposition to the unilateral us decision on jerusalem. a powerful performance that has not failed to make an impact. it is particularly on such important issues as the middle east conflict that we europeans can and must act together - without national isolation - as a counterweight to states which disregard international law and violate un resolutions. i am also referring to the members who are here in this chamber today, who have also spoken against it. i would like to thank you very much, mrs mogherini, for your tireless diplomatic activities. it is particularly important in this region - as in jordan, for example - not to let up now, but to act with determination because the us has left a gap.
i have to say, madam president, we welcome, as an important first step, the promise by the libyan prime minister to grant full access to the camps within his jurisdiction to the unhcr and the international organisation for migration. but the promise of tripoli will not be enough, because the government there has little access to the regions where, for example, these slave markets are located. other militias have access to that. at the last eu-africa summit at the end of november, there was talk of emergency operations being planned and these must be implemented urgently. the plan calls for iom to officially help migrants who are not in need of protection to return to their countries of origin. the eu also provides financial support for what is known as a 'respectful return'. this alone cannot be enough, because we must also promote more development programmes in the countries of origin and extend the framework for legal immigration to europe. the second is to bring people in need of protection, i.e. people who have fled political persecution and civil war, under the auspices of the unhcr, first to chad and niger and then to other countries in africa or the eu that are willing to accept them. i 'll cut it short: in the medium term, the protection grounds must be examined in libya itself and resettlement from there to europe must be made possible. it cannot be that a lack of solidarity within europe prevents a common migration policy.
i have to say, madam president, to prevent irregular migration, the eu works with countries such as libya, where basic guarantees of the rule of law and human rights are lacking. today's amnesty report clearly shows that the eu is complicit in and condemns human rights violations against refugees in libya. this is not just what amnesty international says, but what the un high commissioner for human rights has said publicly and very clearly a few weeks ago. so when we look at working with libya, the absolute priority has to be that we put the protection of refugees at the centre. the eu must use its influence to call for and support the immediate release of all refugees and migrants, including those arbitrarily detained in libya. and the eu member states must also take in refugees directly from libya in their resettlement programmes, and they must not be only in favour of having them transferred back to niger, where we have no idea what conditions they will be subjected to in their countries of origin. we have now had reports on what and where the libyan coastguard is involved. i think we need to fundamentally re-engineer our cooperation with the libyan actors, including the coast guard. the development of methods and cooperation should not be undertaken without independent monitoring and monitoring by international bodies and human rights bodies.
member of the commission. – madam president, indeed i was listening to our colleagues very carefully and i would like to express my thanks for their contribution to this debate. what i would like to say at the beginning is that finally we are all on the same side. we share the same concerns and we are trying to find solutions. some of these solutions are not common, but i think we have reached a level where we all understand that more action has to be undertaken, more responsibility shown, and more initiatives undertaken, in order first of all to bring back stability in libya. ms valenciano, we are still in the early stages but yes, i agree with you that we have to work, we need to work in a balanced way with our partners and also to face reality. europe is in need of economic migrants, but for this purpose we need to enhance and open legal pathways, legal channels, while in parallel reducing irregular migration. as long as irregular migration is there, pictures like the ones we saw some days ago will be replicated. as you know, member states keep the right to determine the volume of admission of third country nationals coming to work in their countries. it is their national competence and responsibility. as far as the commission is concerned, we stand ready to coordinate and propose pilot projects with selected third countries and of course provide related financial support. this would be in cases where member states commit themselves to hosting certain numbers of migrants coming through legal channels, in particular for economic purposes. we are not discussing with the member states, and as you very rightly said, ms in 't veld, my goal, the commission’s goal, is the implementation of a comprehensive migration policy. the same goes for the particular case of libya. as ms ayala sender said, we need a global solution addressing all problems and challenges. dear colleagues, it is clear that we are all equally aware and shocked at the terrible, appalling and inhumane conditions in libya. yes, this has to stop and has to stop now. the situation in those detention centres is unacceptable. the european union is pursuing efforts to support the establishment of a standardised process by the libyan authorities through concrete projects. another question you would ask me: who are these libyan authorities? the legitimate government of tripoli is there, recognised by the united nations, by the european union, but does this government have the power? does this government have full control of the situation in libya? the answer is clear: no. when migrants are rescued by the libyan coast guard they are disembarked and taken to reception centres that meet international humanitarian standards, and once again we have to praise and commend iom and unhcr for the work they are doing on the ground, even putting the lives of their people there in danger. the european union is actually supporting the development in libya of alternatives to detention. recently the libyan government agreed to allow unhcr to open a transit and departures facility to tripoli for people in need of international protection. iom is also working with partner non-governmental organisations on pilot projects to promote safe spaces which would have the capacity to host a small group of vulnerable women and children. as regards the use of funds, we are monitoring, as in every case, how they are used. we are not aware so far of misuses but are ready to listen to concrete evidence. dear colleagues, fanciful statements about complicity and blame might grab headlines but they are not helping anyone, least of all the migrants themselves. the situation in libya is not bad because of the european union. this discourse has to stop. on the contrary, the situation is slightly better compared to the recent past thanks to the european union, and we shall continue working on the ground in order to support these people. you described the situation in libya before. i will pick out some of your words because ultimately libya is lacking all elements to be qualified as a state. the situation is chaotic. there is no strong interlocutor on the other side. the country is divided. there are approximately 20 independent militias operating uncontrolled on the ground. the country is a paradise for smugglers and an open corridor for irregular migration. we here all share the same objectives. first and most important is to save lives and provide these desperate people with support. the european union, its institutions and the member states are working to achieve it, pure and simple. we do so by first stopping people drowning in the mediterranean – and you see that the numbers have gone down drastically – evacuating them from disastrous conditions in libya and offering them safe and legal pathways to come to europe. i will not repeat what i said at the beginning, but it is clear that we have a lot more work to be getting on with to make it better still. i count also on the members of this house to help us advance, because what we have achieved in general in migration, from the very beginning of our term as the european parliament and as this commission, has been achieved thanks to our cooperation, and once again i would like to express my gratitude to all of you for your support. today the european union can be proud of its policy and of the adoption of the principles upon which this policy and this strategy is based. the meps who were here in the previous parliament know very well that there was no migration policy, there was no migration strategy, just an embryo somewhere in brussels, but not something clear and concrete. so we can all share this effort to achieve what we have done. but yes, we have to do more, but we will do it together. this is not a national, regional or a european problem. as we said before it is a global one, and i was more than happy one year ago when i proposed to the former secretary-general of the united nations to hold this extraordinary general assembly and he did it in new york. so in this way, we made this issue a global one. it has become a global responsibility and we are all responsible globally for what is happening in the mediterranean and in libya. the european union has taken its part. all others should do the same. so before i sign off, i would like to call for more and strong joint cooperation by all of us, all actors and partners, since we all aim, as i said, for the same objectives: to bring back stability to the region; to bring back stability to libya; to be the ones that will contribute to bringing unity in libya, because the country is divided and fragmented; to work on the principle of solidarity towards these desperate people, but also among ourselves; and finally, to produce practical results by giving practical support to the people in need.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment and the good spirit of compromise. i have to say that it was a pleasure, but also quite a lot of work, to work with them on the 2016 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world. despite differences of opinion on a number of points, this report is the product of the common convictions of the various political groups. we are united by our concern for human rights and our growing concern about human rights violations in many regions of the world. as is the nature of such a report, we have tried to reflect these basic concerns and to pay particular attention to the vulnerable groups - unfortunately, they are always the same: women, children, people with disabilities, migrants and refugees. but there is a second part. the report also expresses serious concern at the increasingly repressed and threatened state of democracy, human rights and the rule of law worldwide. i have tried to be clear and unambiguous and to avoid repetition. firstly, life has become extremely difficult in more and more regions, especially for religious minorities. states are increasingly oppressing these minorities through blasphemy laws. non-state actors, such as the islamic state, are oppressing them through violence and terror. i am glad that the report consistently calls on the commission to promote and support respect for religious freedom worldwide. secondly, the human rights challenges associated with the refugee and migration crisis of the past year are by no means over - as we have heard for a long time now with regard to libya. they still require a much greater effort to combat the causes. the report is clear and calls for sustainable solutions, including through a strengthened neighbourhood policy. thirdly, civil society is also suffering from an increasing number of repressive laws. the eu is also working to strengthen the role of the media in the fight against terrorism. and it is also being threatened, and this is actually one of the basic conditions of our democratic society, which sometimes goes swimming, being threatened. the so-called human rights dialogue remains a particularly important instrument of eu foreign policy, as human rights can rarely be better defended than through direct talks and negotiations. as the epp coordinator for trade policy, i am pleased that the report continues to reaffirm the practice of human rights clauses in international agreements and highlights the gsp as an exemplary and effective tool to promote the effective implementation of key international human rights conventions. and i can tell you from experience, it was a very, very long work over many years before we could get this through. two final remarks. first, we think we need to find another timeline. to talk about a situation from 2016 at the end of 2017 that's actually too far removed from the events. we repeat it as members of parliament year after year: it really should change. secondly, human rights have taken on a different quality in the digital age. we are no longer dependent on dictatorships for human rights, we are also dependent on technological capabilities. i think that the second point has not yet been sufficiently established in the consciousness. we should work on that. thank you again for your cooperation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this is quite a comprehensive and good annual human rights report, and i thank the rapporteur for her work. this annual report includes strong language on the shrinking space for civil society, including the call for an eu monitoring mechanism for cases of violations of freedom of assembly and association. given that i have only one-and-a-half minutes of speaking time, i would like to focus on the situation of environmental rights defenders, which the annual report explicitly mentions. their important work often goes against the interests of influential companies, and they face severe human relations by state actors as well. according to the ngo ‘global witness’, on average three environmental human rights defenders were murdered each week in 2015. in 2016, there were around four murders per week and this murderous trend went on this year. almost 40% of the environmental human rights defenders killed are indigenous people. we are glad that lolita chavez, a committed environmental and indigenous human rights defender from guatemala, is one of the finalists for the sakharov prize this year. environmental human rights defenders like her are under threat when they oppose the interests of corporations and governments. the sectors most affected are mining, extractive industries, agri—business, hydroelectric dams and water rights and logging. the eu and its member states are clearly not doing enough to ensure corporate accountability and legal redress. it is time to hold accountable those european corporations who contribute to the excessive violence against those activists. i know that it is late, but still i have to say that i really regret that high representative mogherini is not here to contribute to this human rights debate.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, on behalf of vice-president federica mogherini, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and the honourable members for this very fruitful debate. i could not agree more that maximising the efficiency of our tools in promoting and protecting human rights and democracy is of the utmost importance. to achieve our ambitious goals for improvements to democracy and human rights across the globe, we have to ensure a strategic and systematic approach. furthermore, external coherence is key for the legitimacy of our external policies, and we count on parliament’s attentive eye and useful recommendations to ensure such consistency. we remain committed to the improvement of democratic governance at home and will continue supporting democratic transitions in our neighbourhood and beyond. finally, let me express deep appreciation for the very constructive and enhanced cooperation with this house. coming back to the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration and the slogan of the celebration, ‘stand up for human rights’, we certainly hope, and anticipate, that the european external action service, the commission, the member states and parliament will stand together for human rights in the years to come.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have spoken here this evening. we all share the same goals, even if we put different accents. i would also like to thank the commission for the good cooperation. and please tell mrs mogherini that it is half past three for all of us, not just for her. thank you. thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that we can only approach the complex and contradictory situation in hong kong openly and with openness. this openness, i believe, is based on the recognition of the principle of 'one country, two systems' on the one hand, but also on the necessary criticism of the policies of regional and international elites, which have turned hong kong into a highly unequal society, characterized by extreme poverty on the one hand and extreme wealth on the other. hong kong people are suffering from an incredible housing crisis: people are literally living in cages; the german media have been reporting extensively and intensively on this in recent weeks. this crisis is being fuelled largely by money from tax havens that are deliberately not on the eu's blacklist of tax havens. let's dry up these swamps! let's help the people of hong kong! the rapporteur can then act as a credible broker in human rights. in any case, in its present form, we will not be able to agree to the report and its recommendations.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has been a very useful exchange and i, on behalf of vice-president mogherini, thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate, we conclude that we all share a strong commitment to hong kong’s autonomy in the context of the ‘one country, two systems principle’. relations between the eu and hong kong keep on growing. now they cover not only trade and economics, but also customs cooperation, innovation and technology, competition, food safety, the environment and education. european union companies play a key role in sectors like financial services, retail and distribution, transport and logistics, which are all vital for hong kong. they rely on hong kong’s efficient business environment. to that end, we hope that in hong kong the high standards of the rule of law, transparency, non-discrimination and economic freedom will be maintained in the future. may i close by signalling once again the commission’s appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
member of the commission. – madam president, the application concerning the use of phosphates in frozen vertical meat spits received in 2015 has been discussed in detail several times by the working party of governmental experts on additives as regards the fulfilment of the conditions for inclusion in the union list and the use of food additives. these conditions are defined in the regulation on food additives. they provide that a food additive may be included in the union list only if: firstly, it does not pose safety concerns; secondly, there is a reasonable technological need; thirdly, the issue does not mislead consumers; and, fourthly, its use has advantages and benefits for the consumer. let me briefly set out the evidence that all these conditions are fulfilled for this application. regarding safety, the safety of phosphates was evaluated by the scientific committee for food before 1991, and the maximum tolerable daily intake of 70 milligrams per kilogram of body weight expressed as phosphorous was established. current authorisations are based on this evaluation. phosphates are authorised for use in a wide variety – i would like to draw your attention to this – of foods, including meat products and certain meat preparations. the extension of their use to frozen vertical meat spits does have a significant impact on overall exposure to phosphates. i would like to draw your attention to this because it is very important. following a request from the commission, in 2013 the european food safety authority (efsa) assessed a published review on health risks associated with phosphate additives. in the light of this assessment, efsa did not question the conclusions of opinion of the scientific committee for food. the commission regulation setting up a programme for the re—evaluation of approved food additives requires efsa to re—evaluate the safety of all food additives approved before 20 january 2009. the end of 2018 was set as a deadline for the re—evaluation of phosphates. all the relevant and most up—to—date scientific evidence will no doubt be collected and evaluated. the commission closely follows the re—evaluation programme and considers appropriate risk management measures, when needed, on the basis of published opinions. pending the publication of the new efsa opinion on phosphates, the health—based guidance value established in the opinion of the scientific committee for food remains valid. regarding technological needs, the technological need was recognised for certain meat spits, as specified in the draft regulation. phosphates are needed, in particular, for the stabilisation of meat spits and for bonding meat pieces together to ensure homogenous freezing and to prevent the risk of unbalanced heat treatment or of raw or burnt spots. this is very important from a health point of view. economically and technologically practical alternatives were not identified. as regards not misleading the consumer, if added water makes up more than five percent of the weight of the finished product, according to the applicable european union legislation, it has to be explicitly mentioned in business—to—business trade. as regards water in roasted meat spits, as consumed, the data provided by the applicant demonstrated that the use of phosphates does not lead to any additional water content. as a result of the heat treatment, additional water is not retained despite the addition of phosphates. finally, let me address the advantages and benefits for the consumer. phosphates ensure homogenous freezing and prevent the risk of unbalanced heat treatment or of raw or burned spots. the avoidance of raw parts or burned spots results in a better quality and tastier product for the consumer. for the reasons i have set out, the commission is of the opinion that the draft regulation fulfils all the relevant requirements of the regulation on food additives.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the objection of the social democrats and the greens is pure panic-mongering, ignorant and irresponsible. why would you do that? phosphates are allowed in many foods, but they are also naturally present in many foods. if this were really so serious a health hazard, we would all be deadly sick. and why, dear social democrats, did you not have any problems with phosphate in kassler in 2014? what do you have against doner kebab? one doner contains only 134 milligrams of phosphate. this is a fraction of the 4,200 milligrams of phosphate per day that efsa considers safe. besides, phosphates are already allowed in grilled donuts. and by the way, the commissioner said that efsa checks all food additives, not just phosphate, because it can be so dangerous under certain circumstances. it is ignorant to say that doners do not need phosphate. on the contrary, without phosphate, it is not a doner, but a mass of meat, burned on the outside, raw on the inside, a health hazard. the technical requirements are there, and there is no substitute, and tapioca flour is not suitable for doner kebab, and that also contains phosphate. there is also no misleading the consumer about the water added. the commissioner has just explained it. the water added to the meat evaporates mainly when the meat is grilled. so all the arguments in the motion for a resolution are wrong, and yet you insist on them? you're putting tens of thousands of jobs at risk for no reason; that's irresponsible. it is really only a technical clarification that phosphate is allowed in the raw doughnut just as in the finished grilled. without this clarification, phosphate is banned in the doner. and that is precisely what some member states are planning to do in this case. you won't sleep a wink. but that is precisely what your resolution calls for: you want to see the end of the doner kebab in the eu. we cannot allow this to happen to our citizens. we're trying to save the doner.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mrs. sommer, what you're doing here is a high-level panic attack. they say there will be no more donner if we agree to this objection tomorrow at the vote. i want to try to be objective and not add to this panic. the objection is directed against a commission decision authorizing a derogation for the addition of phosphate additives to frozen meat dishes for donkeys and gyros. the addition of phosphates is not authorised for meat preparations, except for well-defined exceptions. exceptions include - you said that right - casseroles or meatballs used in sausages. strictly speaking, since the entry into force of the food additives regulation in 2008, phosphates are not expected to be used for the production of deep-frozen meat spit. if lobbying was necessary here, it would be here. you're right, for once. there's a loophole in the law. however, there are also very different interpretations of this by courts in germany, for example in a judgment from munich and in one from augsburg - the two are not identical. the s&d group is not generally opposed to this derogation being extended to frozen meatballs. the timing alone is completely incomprehensible to us. the european food authority - and the commissioner has confirmed this - is currently reviewing the effectiveness of additives containing phosphate. the results will be available by the end of 2018. so we have a re-evaluation. the commissioner, if the evaluation is from 1991, it is a long time ago and we may have learned something by now. so we should wait for that assessment and then decide which food products should remain on the exemption list and which should be removed. so this panic, there would be no more donner, is completely wrong. the doner can also be produced without phosphate additives. you have just said that wrongly, mrs sommer, and it has been described differently in the media on several occasions, especially by the largest producer in germany.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened very carefully to the comments made and the views expressed. let me assure the honourable members that all the concerns have been considered by the commission services and discussed with member state experts on food additives. we had very thorough debates. of course, health is the main concern of the commission, and personally i am very concerned about people’s health. the draft regulation received the strong support of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed on 25 september 2017, and not one member state questioned the safety of the proposed use. some colleagues made some emotional expressions, and i would like to draw attention to a comment by angelo ciocca, in which he proposed that i taste insects. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the new testament, saint john the baptist ate grasshoppers with wild honey. it is an old story, and it was tasty and healthy. at this very important time, do not disseminate messages which are not reality. i would like to repeat that the commission is firmly of the view that the draft regulation fulfils all the relevant legislative requirements. thank you very much indeed, and i wish you all a merry christmas and a happy new year.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, tomorrow and on friday, leaders will meet in brussels for a series of key debates in four different forms. in keeping with the spirit of the leaders’ agenda, presented by president tusk, they are determined to engage more directly on politically sensitive issues. brexit discussions will undoubtedly get the most visibility, and i will get to that in a moment, but there will be other important discussions for future work at the eu level that i will start with. the formal meeting of the european council will be dedicated to security and defence, the social dimension, education and culture. as you know, leaders keep a close eye on developments in the field of defence to make sure that political ambition is turned into concrete action. this approach has yielded results. it is fair to say that we have made more progress in the last 12 months than in the last 10 years. the most visible example is the launching of the permanent structured enhanced cooperation (pesco) and leaders will mark the occasion when they meet tomorrow. against the background of the recently agreed new proposals for further joint work, leaders will exchange views on eu-nato cooperation with nato secretary general stoltenberg. they will also use the occasion to review other work strands including the european defence fund and its european defence industrial development programme. the adoption of the programme regulation by the co-legislators is now a matter of priority. the council’s mandate has just been adopted, on 12 december. leaders will then turn to the social dimension of the eu as well as education and culture. leaders will adopt forward-looking conclusions in all three topics, building on last month’s fruitful discussions in gothenburg. the debate taking place over the dinner at 28 will be informal as per the leaders’ agenda working method. president tusk considers that a serious political discussion is needed to pave the way forward on the external and the internal dimension of migration. it will be important to look at what has and what has not worked over the past two years and draw the necessary lessons for establishing an effective and sustainable migration policy. there will be no written output from the debate because the aim of the discussion is first and foremost to foster a shared understanding of the main issues ahead, as a basis for further work in the first half of 2018. on friday morning, the heads of the 25 member states who have ratified the treaty on stability, coordination and governance, joined by the czech republic and croatia as observers, will discuss the future of the economic and monetary union and the banking union. the presidents of the eurogroup, the commission and the european central bank will take part as well. the aim of the leaders’ discussion will be to scope the priority issues on which work should proceed rapidly and to give a tasking to the eurogroup and ecofin to follow this up. to facilitate an open and political exchange of views, there will be no written statement afterwards. now i turn to the state of play of negotiations with the uk. after breakfast on friday, the european council will meet in its article 50 format, that is at 27. we are getting very close to sufficient progress on the three phase 1 issues, thanks to intensive work in the past month. at the october european council, our assessment was that sufficient progress had not been achieved and it was too early to move to phase 2. now, i believe that we are there. the uk’s new improved offer which prime minister may presented last week looks like a solid agreement, and accordingly our chief negotiator michel barnier has presented a positive assessment for friday’s european council. i would like to use this opportunity to thank the european parliament for your work that has helped us to reach this point. this is a significant move from the uk, which i expect the eu 27 leaders to welcome. on friday, the european council, at 27, will adopt the guidelines with a view to possible transitional arrangements and on the framework for the future relationship. this, however, does not mean that we have finished with phase 1 issues. there is still a lot to do, and any further progress in the next phase depends on full respect of the agreements described in the joint report of the negotiators.
first vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen over the course of this year that in europe we must work tirelessly and invest in the daily will to move forward and do better together. but the results are there: the european pillar of social rights, permanent structured cooperation, better european management of migration, trade agreements with canada and japan, and also the conclusion of the first phase of the brexit negotiations. three years ago it was unthinkable that the three european institutions and the 28 member states would proclaim together a european pillar of social rights at the first social summit organised by europe in the last 20 years. i also remember the puzzled looks when the commission proposed to revive the sleeping beauty of the lisbon treaty, permanent structured cooperation, and that the member states should cooperate more on joint defence projects. no one believed it then. today, no less than 25 member states have embarked on this path. the first projects to bring this new cooperation to life, in the areas of cyber defence, medical command or joint logistics, have already been identified. the commission has proposed a european defence fund to give a serious boost to joint defence research and development investments. i am pleased that yesterday, just in time for the european council, the member states reached agreement on a general approach to this proposal. the commission now counts on the support of this parliament and we invite the member states to submit projects so that we can start funding at the beginning of 2019. these are ideas that jean-claude juncker and his commission have been championing for years, but they are now finally well on their way to becoming reality. the future of our union is also the future of the euro area. the two go together, they are two inseparable realities. naturally, we also have the strong aufschwung and the low unemployment wind in den segeln. that is why it is our task to take europe's future and with it the future of the euro itself into our hands. this means in concrete terms: we must use the economic climate to make our economic and monetary union stronger, more efficient and more adaptable. the commission has therefore put forward a roadmap last week. this roadmap contains the main steps towards deepening the banking union, the capital market union and the economic and monetary union. the first decisions were taken in june in sibiu, romania. the european council is the european parliament's decision-making body. the roadmap should ensure that the euro continues to fulfil its stability promise, and at the same time that the länder of our union become more united. so gain all members strength and ability to act. to achieve this, we must urgently complete and progress banking union, while simultaneously taking and reducing risks. the commission has already done a great deal to reduce the risks. the capital ratio of banks in the eu has doubled rapidly since the crisis, and the share of non-financial loans has also been declining continuously. the commission put forward further measures to reduce bank risk a year ago, and i hope that this house and the member states will agree to them quickly. with the package of last week we have also proposed that the back stop for the single settlement mechanism be ready to be used. this was, in principle, what the member states had agreed to in 2013. like many of them, i am also convinced that a common currency area must eventually also have a common deposit insurance system. it is also urgent that we complete the capital markets union, because well-integrated capital markets not only ensure that risks are mitigated through private financial channels, but they are also one of the most efficient ways of making progress in risk management. the initiatives for economic and monetary union also aim to strengthen existing structures and not create new ones. the european union is not a power struggle, but a more efficient european one. the european stability mechanism is gradually being extended to include a european monetary fund, and we europeans are becoming more self-sufficient. we also help ourselves when we support the member states in the necessary reforms. the commission also provides its own structural reform specialists to implement improvements in the labour market, health and social protection or public budget management. this house has long demanded that we should transpose the fiscal pact into eu law. if we do that, we will be able to bring national budgetary responsibility and solidarity into line with each other. the stronger and more successful our common economic and monetary union is, the more protection and opportunities, jobs and growth it creates for people. therefore i am relying in this matter very particularly on your support. they are the parliament of the european economic and monetary union. the next year will be critical in shaping our future. this is why i am delighted that president juncker, together with president tajani and prime minister ratas, will tomorrow sign the new joint declaration on legislative priorities for 2018. the joint declaration will help focus all our minds on the issues where we can make the biggest difference and show real results to citizens, ahead of the european elections. nowhere is this more important than in migration, an issue on the leaders' agenda this week. we need a comprehensive european approach, including much more than just border management and support to africa, but also solidarity within the european union and preserving the schengen area of free movement. i firmly disagree with the statement that relocation as an emergency response has been ineffective. over 32,000 people have been relocated. that is over 90% of all those eligible. migration is an issue that will stay with us for generations, and we have to be ready for a possible next crisis. so let me be clear: all building blocks of our comprehensive approach are needed. take one brick out and the whole edifice crumbles. temporary internal borders may become permanent, with lasting damage also to the internal market. this parliament has adopted its position on the dublin reform. it is now time for leaders to unblock the stalemate in council and strike the right balance between solidarity and responsibility. (applause) i would like to thank you. let the treaty lead. what is up to co-legislators should be left in the hands of co-legislators, and not returned to member states. we will either find a european solution to the migration challenge, or there will be no solution. (applause) i would like to thank you. only by getting the reform of the dublin regulation done will we be able to get back to schengen. this cannot be left on the shoulders of a few member states. every single member state will have to do its measure and show solidarity to the union as a whole. we must also urgently improve the conditions of migrants in detention camps in libya. at the african union/eu summit in abidjan, leaders agreed to work in concert with the united nations to save and protect the lives of migrants and refugees along the routes and, in particular, inside libya. i would like to mention briefly the successful conclusion of the final discussions of the eu-japan economic partnership agreement. last friday, the negotiators concluded the talks for the biggest bilateral trade agreement ever negotiated by the european union. the economic partnership agreement will remove most of the eur 1 billion of duties paid annually by eu companies exporting to japan. it will also open up the japanese market of 127 million consumers to key eu agricultural exports. it will increase eu export opportunities in a range of other sectors. with this partnership, europe and japan send a powerful message in defence of open, fair and rules-based trade. now let us do what is necessary to submit the agreement to you, the european parliament, and the eu member states for approval, so that our companies and citizens can start exploiting its full potential before the end of this commission's mandate. mr president, with your permission i would now like to pass the floor to michel barnier to enlighten us on the article 50 negotiations. (applause) i would like to thank you.
chief negotiator for brexit. mr president, i also thank frans timmermans and you for allowing me to speak at the beginning of your plenary on this extraordinarily difficult and complex negotiation with the united kingdom and to mention the first result we reached together last friday. this is an important step, there will be many more to come, but this agreement is important because with this joint and detailed report (96 paragraphs, 15 pages), we are addressing upstream the difficult issues of the separation that the united kingdom wanted. if the european council so wishes, taking into account your own resolution, this first step will enable us to envisage the further negotiations in a more calm manner. we also affirm the stability of our continent. in an uncertain world - we all know this - our union must be able to find rational solutions with the united kingdom and then, or at the same time, be able to concentrate and focus its energy on all the initiatives and challenges we have to face together, as frans timmermans has just mentioned on behalf of the european commission. we are also sending a message of confidence to many people, to many actors, to many citizens who are worried, sometimes even anxious, as a result of the united kingdom's decision to leave the european union. in this negotiation - and i have said this many times before - our attitude has never been one of mutual concessions. it was not a matter of making concessions on the rights of citizens. it was not about making concessions on the peace and stability process in ireland, or even making concessions to the thousands of project promoters who are funded by european policies and the european budget. i know that this line has always been shared by parliament and also by the council. the agreement reached on friday owes a great deal - i mean, matti - to the continuing cooperation with the council, with the member states. this agreement owes much to your continued and demanding support, ladies and gentlemen. i would like to thank you, mr president tajani, and i would like to thank you sincerely at this stage - we are not at the end of the road - your coordinator guy verhofstadt, the members of the brexit steering group that you have set up, elmar brok, roberto gualtieri, danuta maria hübner, gabriele zimmer and philippe lamberts, the chairmen of your political groups and also the chairmen of the committees, with whom i will continue to work. i would like to mention the main points of our agreement. i would also remind you that the objective which your assembly and the european council had set for me was to achieve sufficient progress at this stage on an objective basis. 'sufficient progress' does not mean 100%, but real sufficient progress, that is to say, sufficiently precise progress which commits and forms a solid basis for the continuation of our negotiations. this is the positive assessment that the european commission and its president, jean-claude juncker, have made of this joint report. the political commitments which were made at the highest level on friday and which we have translated very precisely into the joint report seem to me - i say this with all responsibility - to fulfil these conditions. i want to be very clear on this point, ladies and gentlemen: i would never have presented this joint report in my capacity as negotiator if it had not been an opportunity to act and to take note, with the united kingdom, of real progress in securing the rights of citizens, in securing the promoters of projects financed by the european budget and in securing the peace process in ireland and the conditions for north-south cooperation. we will not accept any backtracking on this joint report. this progress is being made and will have to be translated rapidly into a legally binding withdrawal agreement on each of our three subjects and on a few others too which remain to be negotiated or clarified. this is one of the conditions for the successful continuation of the negotiations. at the beginning of this debate in plenary, i would like to focus on the subject which has been our common priority from the beginning: the rights of citizens. four and a half million european citizens, whom you represent, have decided to live on the other side of the channel or in our country on the basis of union law, which allows for the free movement of people. our joint report preserves their rights. it ensures that all european citizens arriving in the united kingdom and all british citizens arriving in the union before the date of the uk's withdrawal will be able to continue living as they do today with guarantees applied without discrimination on grounds of nationality and for the duration of their lives. this means, for example, that a citizen of the continent or of the united kingdom who has chosen to live on either side of the channel will be able to continue to reside there after brexit. this right of residence will even be extended in relation to the existing right. if they decide to return to their country and are therefore absent from the uk or another country, they will be able to return and regain their rights after a period of absence of up to five years, compared to only two years now. a british student in one of the eu countries will not suffer the effects of brexit. she will be able to continue her studies, pay the same registration fees as citizens of the country where she is studying and even work there after her studies. this is of course true for all european students in the uk. nurses or doctors who were in office before brexit will be able to continue to work in their host country. their professional qualifications will continue to be recognised, as will other professions. family members will retain their right to join their relatives in the future, after brexit, in the united kingdom or in the union. all children will be protected, even those born after brexit. citizens will retain their rights to healthcare, pensions and other social security benefits, even if they leave their host country for another eu country. this also applies to a point which was under debate until the last moment: the portability of entitlements to family allowances. i want to be as clear as i can be about the implementation of those rights. the withdrawal agreement takes precedence over national law, whether it be british, french, slovak or maltese. the guarantees it will provide will be directly invoked by the citizens concerned throughout their lives. there will also be no ambiguity in the interpretation of these rights on either side of the channel. the current case-law of the court of justice will form part of the agreement and the future case-law that needs to be developed will apply. the british courts will have to take it into account - that is what the report says - for the lifetime of the citizens concerned as well. finally, the uk authorities have planned to set up an independent authority which can be brought by european citizens in the uk, just as british citizens can bring their rights before the european commission. the details of how this independent authority will operate will be set out in the withdrawal agreement. so, ladies and gentlemen, there is another problem concerning all the european citizens - the 3 and a half million people - who are currently living and working in the united kingdom, which concerns the registration procedure that the united kingdom has required for european citizens on its territory. it seems to me that i know the sensitivity and attention you have to the point that this is an administrative procedure that will be practical and necessary to facilitate the effective exercise of rights. but we have got - and this is in the attached report - that this condition of this administrative procedure is transcribed into the withdrawal agreement with the necessary guarantees. this is a registration or administrative procedure for these citizens with a country that will become a third country on 29 march 2019 at midnight or 2300 london time. what we have foreseen in this joint report is that the procedure that the united kingdom will put in place will have to be simple to use, based on objective criteria, accompanied by the same procedural safeguards as today, in particular in terms of appeals. european citizens who are already permanent residents in the uk will get this special status free of charge. the remainder of the costs should not exceed those imposed on uk citizens for the issuance of similar documents, around £70. but i want to reiterate that the conditions of this administrative procedure - which the british authorities have demanded - will be specified. you can check their simplicity in the withdrawal agreement itself, which will be submitted to you for ratification. ladies and gentlemen, we are not at the end of the road on the rights of citizens - i have just said that - or on the other issues of orderly withdrawal, so we will remain vigilant. theresa may made a commitment on behalf of the whole of the british government. it is now up to us to decide whether this result is sufficient progress to open, under certain conditions, the second phase of the negotiations. if your resolution goes in that direction and if the european council also sees sufficient progress on friday, i will, on your behalf, start work on the formal drafting of the withdrawal agreement and we can do so fairly quickly on the basis of this joint report, among other things. we will continue negotiations on all the issues where we still need to clarify, deepen, negotiate the governance of the future agreement, various issues such as geographical indications, the data issue and then ireland which will be the subject of a specific negotiation path. we must find specific solutions for ireland, together, each in his own responsibility, to respond to a unique situation on the island. in accordance with the decisions of the european council, we will also make progress in defining a short and structured transitional period during which we will maintain, together with european policies, the whole regulatory and supervisory architecture and, of course, the role of the court of justice. finally, we will continue - if you wish - our internal preparations at 27, with you too, on the future relationship; we have to agree among ourselves on the framework of this future relationship. but, as i have said before, i am saying this clearly and calmly: there are some things that will not be negotiable: neither the integrity of the single market, nor the four freedoms that are inseparable and are the foundation of the single market, nor the decision-making autonomy of the union, which the united kingdom has chosen to leave. the united kingdom shall become a third country on 29 march 2019. we believe that a close partnership in the future must remain our common horizon. we know where we are today and we know where we can go. i propose today that you recognise the importance of this step. we have many more steps to take to achieve an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom, which is much better than a disorderly withdrawal. i thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for your support and confidence, and for your vigilance on the future course of the negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, a few days ago, the mail on sunday published an opinion poll: 50% of british people are in favour of a new referendum. (heckling) the british people realise now that brexit means losing many things but not gaining anything. let me mention just one example, which was an interesting one: the debate in recent days in britain about the decision of the commission that british cities can no longer be european capitals of culture. (heckling) a very easy message that you can understand, the british will lose a lot. and on the other hand, the european member states understand that sticking together makes all of us much stronger. (applause) i want to use ireland as an example of this. whereas the united kingdom could easily set the terms of the anglo-irish treaty of 1921, the recent negotiations have clearly demonstrated that ireland is today much stronger because it belongs to the european union. (heckling and applause) we are all irish: that is the main message, and we europeans have secured irish interests in the negotiations in the last few weeks. i want to underline two concrete points: one is that in this first phase, the idea was to create trust between great britain and the european union. i have to say that the recent statement by david davis about what this outcome now means practically was not helpful in securing this trust-building approach, so we ask the british prime minister to clarify by thursday that the outcome of the first phase is binding on both sides, and is a basis for future talks in the second phase. for the second phase we have a key role to play. we finally decide about the withdrawal treaty and for my group, one thing is clear: we can only accept a kind of transitional period if we have a sufficient outcome from the second phase. without a withdrawal treaty there will be no transitional period – that must be clear for next year, 2018. liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, ich möchte noch auf ein zweites thema eingehen, weil wir uns heute in der dezembersitzung befinden. wenn wir die menschen von europa überzeugen wollen, müssen wir über unsere erfolge reden, wie es auch frans timmermans heute gemacht hat. im jahr 2017, in diesem abgelaufenen jahr, haben wird insgesamt 74 legislativakte auf den weg gebracht. wir sind beim pariser klimaabkommen, beim wirtschaftlichen aufschwung für europa, bei ceta vorangekommen, und bei anderen internationalen handelsabkommen haben wir gezeigt, dass wir brücken bauen und nicht brücken abreißen wollen. bei der verteidigung sind historische schritte gemacht worden. bei der zusammenarbeit im verteidigungsbereich und auch bei der sozialunion gibt es fortschritte zu vermelden. wir liefern in der sache. das ist die wichtigste botschaft an die bürger. wenn wir sie von europa überzeugen wollen, brauchen wir keine theoriedebatten – wir brauchen lösungen in der sache. da sind wir in den letzten monaten sehr stark vorangekommen. für 2018 möchte ich deutlich machen, dass ein hauptthema die frage der grenzsicherung ist. wir müssen den bürgern in europa deutlich machen, dass es uns gelingt, unseren eigenen kontinent zu sichern, vor allem, wenn es um die illegale migration geht. meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! der european way of life ist eines der themen, das meine fraktion stark umtreibt. es gilt ihn zu definieren und zu beschützen, und das gerade in unsicheren zeiten. lassen sie mich deswegen heute als dritten gedanken einen sehr grundsätzlichen gedanken einbringen, nämlich dass ich gerade jetzt in der weihnachtszeit darauf verweisen will, dass unser kontinent christliche wurzeln hat. 75 % aller eu- bürger sind christen. meine fraktion ist stolz auf dieses christliche erbe, das europa in unseren kirchen, aber auch in unseren traditionen und im täglichen leben lebt. wenn wir heute auf die grundstruktur unseres kontinents blicken, auf die ideen der solidarität, auf die ideen der subsidiarität, auf die ideen der toleranz im umgang miteinander, dann sind viele dieser grundwerte nicht denkbar ohne die christlich-jüdischen wurzeln unseres kontinents. diese fundamente sollten wir uns bewusst machen. auch nicht- christen, auch menschen, die den glauben ablehnen, werden in den nächsten tagen froh sein, dass europa stillsteht, dass wir auf diesem kontinent einmal zur ruhe kommen. das erbe, dass weihnachten in ganz europa praktiziert wird, führt dazu, dass unser leben und auch unser jahresablauf struktur hat. deswegen möchte ich zum schluss zum ausdruck bringen, dass diese werte für uns als fraktion wichtig sind, dass uns die grundlage dieses kontinents immer wieder bewusst sein sollte und dass wir auch stolz darauf sein dürfen. (beifall)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not first of all, i want to start right here. i too think that the letter from president tusk to the heads of government which has been made public is very fatal. instead of talking about distribution and criticizing it as the main problem of european refugee policy, it is worth thinking about the fact that the eu needs to change its policy towards states like libya and others so that people who are fleeing are not ultimately locked up in detention camps. that would be a different approach, and it should be considered. but the main point of concern here today is the question of the interim balance of the brexit negotiations. let me make this clear . this is a political assessment. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. it must be the background for putting all this into law and for examining the resilience of what has now been agreed. we have our doubts. we have doubts about the british government's behaviour in recent weeks. that didn't help build trust. a government driven by many sides, almost yielding to the dup a party that has never properly recognised the good friday agreement in northern ireland, that is anti-rights and that is willing to reduce the rights of citizens in northern ireland to assert its influence. it can't be! that is why our role here in parliament will be decisive. we will say clearly: on the basis of our resolution of april 2017, we will finally assess the results in the autumn of next year and decide whether we can then agree to a withdrawal agreement under these conditions. what do we see as urgent? first, there is the question of civil rights. i have already said a lot of things, but i would like to mention just a few. we are, of course, concerned with the question of family reunification, with the view of the family as a family and not of a few people being singled out. we are concerned about the future of the children, we are also concerned about the future of potential new couples, we are concerned that the rights of the family as a whole are protected. we want full recognition of professional qualifications. we also want to ensure the right of people to have access to health care, to education, to public services in virtually every respect, also in the uk. we want the export of acquired rights to continue and not be reduced. and we want, of course, that the withdrawal agreement also has direct effect on the citizens concerned, with the interpretation of the ecj. we have doubts whether the eight years provided for are really sufficient. we would suggest that in the event that the british government is unable to set up an independent body, there should be a continuation, an extension of the period of operation of the european court of justice. we want the freedom of movement of british citizens within the european union between the 27 member states to be preserved, not restricted. and we also want the new settled status to be linked to all the rights and standards derived from eu law and applicable to citizens. it's important to us. i would like to make one further point. we also want to keep in mind that brexit, the question of the binding of the ecj's case law to the british courts and a possible, obviously envisaged, free trade agreement will also restrict the rights of workers in the uk. it is not just about future rights, but above all about existing standards which british workers have already acquired. we have a responsibility here as a parliament to look at this very carefully and not just look the other way and say: 'it is your business now how you deal with it. northern ireland, ireland: we have a full commitment here, and we have committed ourselves as a parliament to commit ourselves fully to the good friday agreement, the 1998 treaty. it is important for us to look not only at what is regulated in detail in structural decisions but also at what rights are enshrined there. we are concerned - and this is still the demand of my group - that there should be no reduction in the rights which the irish have enjoyed on both sides - within the republic of ireland and in northern ireland - under eu law. we'll insist on that. we'll be measuring a lot of things with this, too. and i want to make it clear again: we as a parliament should make a commitment to the eu citizens in the uk, to the people in northern ireland and ireland and also to the uk citizens living in the eu that we will fight for their rights, that we will be the guarantor of their rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, until some days ago i was quite optimistic about this council: there might actually be some steps ahead, there were some positive developments and i thought that doesn’t happen so often, so i was quite optimistic. on brexit there was a sort of agreement, even some hiccups, but there was a step forward. on the eurozone there was some movement, and even on migration there were some steps in the right direction – looking at the commission, for example, and ecj court cases... but that didn’t last so long. on brexit, even though we had an agreement, it was then put into question in london, and that of course raises a lot of questions about any sort of agreement that we make here, that you are making with your counterparts. i would also say this especially concerns the future relationship, because you cannot trust one another if you are not sure that whatever you agree is actually going to hold, so this is going to put a major strain on any future relations. i would also add that this is not just for the european union, because if the uk wants to be a global player and find their new friends elsewhere, then that is going to be just as tricky, or even more tricky because while we have a long relationship, others might find it even more bewildering if there is this untrustworthiness on the other side. so i hope this can be clarified. we will make a very clear deal, legally binding and everything, but i hope that this will not happen again in the future. on northern ireland, as colleagues have mentioned, this is of course a crucial issue that really goes into the question of peace and living together. this is something that will remain as the main concern of our group, but i am sure for other colleagues as well. there we still have a square to circle: we all agree there should not be a hard border and whatever, so that’s nice... but we don’t say yet how we are going to do that. we cannot have our cake and eat it, we need to find a solution here. and i join with colleagues in saying that we must ensure there is no restriction on the rights of irish citizens and of people on both sides of the border in ireland, we must ensure that their rights will be safeguarded. but there is no solution yet. i hope we will have a proposal soon, but for us this remains the main issue along with the rights of citizens. of course, there as well we have made some important progress, but there are also important problems – the rights of future partners and spouses, for example. already now we hear stories of major hiccups with administration, where residency permits are not being granted as they should be. this is something that urgently needs to be addressed. on migration, as has already been mentioned, i did find the letter of tusk extremely irritating because basically, just when the commission stands up for solidarity, goes to the ecj, and has been bringing infringement procedures, now basically the council and tusk come and shoot the commission in the back. that is not a nice way to proceed and i think mr tusk, and i think the entirety of the member states, will have to answer some questions here. how should it be understood when tusk calls solidarity ‘ineffective’? how should this be understood by the commission, which was standing firm by this parliament? we actually have the same parties here in this house as in the governments in the member states. we are not a detached, totally different galaxy. we are the same political groups, the same parties, but we have managed to find an agreement in the european parliament on the dublin reform and on the future asylum system. sure, it wasn’t easy, but we managed to put forward an ambitious proposal, but apparently this is ‘ineffective’, this is irrelevant for mr tusk – i do find this really irritating. what about the member states who have been calling for many years for more solidarity? what about italy? what about greece? in the past it was malta and spain, and it could be poland tomorrow, as well. there is no guarantee that any member state will be spared, so to say. so i am wondering whose president mr tusk is trying to be here, and i hope that this will not be reflected in the leaders’ meeting, and i hope indeed that the other co-legislator will make progress here because we in parliament have been ready for a long time. i hope too that the heads of state and government will have a look at what eu member states have contributed to the misery that we see in libya and also what they are going to do in order to alleviate that misery. i think that proposing just 1 000 resettlement places for the whole european union, well that is really a meagre number so i hope that the member states will add on a little there.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that the council is not just dealing with brexit but is taking a major step towards the creation of a european defence union, that proposals for a solidary, conditional and eu-strengthening economic and monetary union are being discussed, that the issue of a social pillar is being discussed and progress is being made here - all this shows that the european union is moving forward and not just waiting for brexit. but with brexit, we have to say clearly that an agreement has been reached here, which i consider binding. if i hear from my british colleague here today that this is not the case, then i must make it clear to us that in our relations the government's position is the only binding one, and the government has made a clear commitment and that commitment must be included in the withdrawal agreement. this withdrawal agreement is a condition for a transitional arrangement to come into being or for a trade agreement to be concluded at all. that's why i'm asking you not to play around. if mr farage says that these were all unelected people, the only party in the whole country that is unelected is mr farage's party. she has no seat in the national parliament, so she should not be here to talk about national legitimacy. mr juncker was elected by the european parliament, which was elected by the people of europe. i think we need to make it clear that there needs to be trust in our relationship. this agreement has created trust. this is not to be destroyed. that trust is necessary if we are to really get a deal at the end of the day that benefits both sides. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is strong because it was united, and that is why it will be united in the months ahead. that is the condition for the success of the negotiations.
madam president, i noticed a lot of schadenfreude here this morning. mr weber was apparently enjoying the fact that there are a lot of negative economic effects for the british economy. i would like to remind all of us here that europe is suffering at least as much as britain is. i must remind mr timmermans of the fact that to map out a future trade deal with canada or japan is one thing, but to map out a trade deal with a country with which we have had relations for more than 40 years is quite another. there are a lot of logistical and sophisticated supply chains which are at danger. i am obsessed with the disappointment that we are not losing only a good trading partner potentially, but we are losing 73 people in this parliament who have always been advocates of freedom, of autonomy and of competitiveness. president tusk last month said the following: there will either be a deal, there will be no deal, or there will be no brexit. he is right. we have to stop two trains running on the same track against each other, because this is going to be a real catastrophe. brexit is a lose-lose situation for both, for britain and for the eu. that is why i believe that it must be brussels, it must be mr tusk himself, who should try to offer britain a new deal – a new deal which avoids brexit. it is my strong opinion that europe will never be a complete europe, will never be a competitive europe, without great britain. (interjection from the floor: ‘europe is finished’)
i have to say, madam president, 2017 was also a good year for europe: 150,000 people arrived by sea in europe, up from 1.5 million in 2015. we have more employees who are subject to social security today than before the crisis. we have taken a first substantial step towards a defence union with pesco. yes, there are still many things that are going wrong that we need to do better. but we should also have the courage to point out the joint successes of our policy in public. 2018 will be the year of deepening the economic and monetary union. i would like to see an upgraded eu budget for investments with european added value. i want a commissioner for economic and monetary affairs with new powers. i would like to see the conditionality principle strengthened with better consideration of the country-specific recommendations. i would like to see a more realistic valuation of government bonds. i would like to see a european monetary fund which can then also be effective. i would like to see the cohesion fund and the existing balance of payments facility for non-euro countries developed further so that we can really work together to ensure the future and prevent crises. gianni pittella has addressed santa lucia as patron saint of clear vision. we have the feast of the assumption of the virgin mary on january 1st. she's the patron saint of the lost and the wayward. and when i look at the many people who are always just grumbling in parliament, babbling in disorientation or not wanting to take note of the realities of brexit, i can only ask: saint lucia and saint mary, please help the lost and the lost who are tapping in the fog, so that 2018 will also be a good year for them!
i have to say, madam president, i congratulate you, mr barnier, on the outcome of the negotiations you have presented to us. as vice-chairman of the committee on budgets, my particular concern was the impact of brexit on the european budget, for which the united kingdom has made far-reaching commitments. the result guarantees that we can complete the medium-term financial framework as planned. it guarantees that the uk will continue to contribute to the pensions of eu officials who have also served the uk during its membership of the european union, many of whom are uk citizens. but it also means that the nonsense about land and wine bottles that we've heard about the island has been stopped. i am convinced that the uk is weaker without the eu and that the eu is weaker without the uk. in this context, i am pleased that article 73 of the joint report mentions that the uk is considering continued participation in eu policies. that is sensible, and we should do so, subject to further contributions to the eu budget.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to turn now to education policy, which deserves much more attention than it has received so far. at the gothenburg summit, the commission thankfully proposed the creation of a european education area by 2025. now these well-spoken words must be followed by corresponding actions. with due respect for the competences of the member states, why should the member states not finally agree on common, ambitious and binding educational objectives and put the necessary money in their hands: for language acquisition, lifelong learning, modern key competences, including digital skills? the objectives must then be evaluated closely. education is the future, and investment in education is investment in the future of people. it is high time that we acknowledged this in our common political action. the european parliament and the commission will work together to create a european education area by 2025, and i urge the member states to do their part to make this project a success.
chief negotiator for brexit. madam president, i will therefore try to be both precise and quick, first of all to say to all of you who have spoken on issues other than brexit, whether it is the economy, immigration, education, social or economic issues, that i will of course pass on your remarks to president juncker and to first vice-president timmermans, who regrets not being able to be there. manfred weber spoke of the transition in a telegram. i want to confirm that the only legal basis for a possible transition is article 50. there is no transition unless there is an agreement on article 50, a withdrawal agreement. i would also like to thank esteban gonzáles pons for using the word 'transparency'. it is a key to confidence between us, including with the council, and we will continue, in liaison with guy verhofstadt and the members of parliament's brexit steering group, to have these permanent confidence-building dialogues. on ireland, seán kelly, mairead mcguinness and other meps stressed the sensitivity of the issue. i will continue to be the negotiator for the irish government as well as the other 26 governments and - if you will - at your side. the unity of the 27 in the past months and for the months to come is absolutely fundamental. i listened very carefully to mrs veld, mrs keller and mr kelly, who spoke of citizens' rights, as roberto gualtieri and guy verhofstadt also did with great force. two points on this: firstly, free movement will in future be part of the next stage in phase two, but i am not forgetting this issue. the very important point about the procedures, which is a sensitive point, is that we have put very precise conditions in the joint report, which have been co-signed by both sides, and i will be very keen - you can be sure of that - to have those conditions transcribed into the withdrawal treaty itself, so that these procedures are as simple and as unbureaucratic as possible. we are not done with this issue and it will only be closed in the withdrawal agreement. so from this point of view, the vigilance of the european parliament is right and justified. mr mavrides, just a word on cyprus: we will need to find specific solutions to preserve the current situation of the citizens concerned by life around the two military bases in cyprus. i'm just saying it in passing. gianni pittella, guy verhostadt and, of course, elmar brok all spoke of the strength of this joint relationship. it is a serious job that we have done together, methodical, precise. it will be the basis of what we will transfer and transcribe into law, through a draft treaty. i told guy verhostadt that i intended to put on your table, before the end of january, this draft treaty based on the contents of this joint report. as elmar brok said, it's a matter of trust. the word 'trust' is much more than a word at this stage between the british and us, because you cannot build a future relationship in defence, security, judicial cooperation, for university, for trade of course, without having trust. just a word about the context of these negotiations: they are difficult, and they are tough, very tough, because the issues are extremely complicated and because the consequences of brexit are very serious. i personally want to say, in response to a member of the house of commons, that prime minister theresa may is courageous and respectable. i certainly respect her. i would now like to say, as syed kamall, gabriele zimmer and manfred weber have said about the future relationship, that with this agreement on the joint report, an important step is being taken towards an orderly withdrawal and that is the condition, this orderly withdrawal, through a treaty which will be submitted to you and you will have the last word in building a future relationship. i would like to stress just one point from this standpoint, which we will come back to. this is the first time in the history of european trade negotiations - and we will have to build a free trade agreement with the united kingdom - that we will have to work in a negotiated trade relationship to control divergence rather than to encourage convergence. we will have to control the regulatory divergence, to prevent it from becoming a dumping tool against us, rather than encouraging convergence, as we usually do. this is a very important point in relation to the way of life, which manfred weber mentioned earlier, and also to the conditions of fair competition. this is a common thread, mrs berès, in fact, that this joint report is leading to an agreement, as danuta maria hübner has also very well said. maria joão rodrigues, daniel caspary and others have just spoken about the reforms europe needs. president timmermans has spoken about it. i think, and i repeat, that the future of europe, which is made of these reforms, of this voluntarism, is much more important than brexit. that is why i think it was necessary to stabilise this negotiation, so that the energy, your energy and the energy of the europeans, could be devoted to this reform agenda. i am very grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen, for the appreciation you have shown for our work. i will share that appreciation without any self-satisfaction and even less with triumphalism. that's really not my state of mind. i will share this appreciation with my whole team, the commission services, the parliament team, the council team, who deserve it. if i may say in english, let us keep calm and carry on.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank members for all their comments made during this discussion this morning. i will convey them to the president of the european council. one observation from me, though. during the last 18 months we have successfully avoided brexit negotiations – so skilfully conducted by michel barnier – overshadowing the eu’s other daily work for our citizens’, for our businesses’ sake. that is good. and when i hear this discussion this morning in this house, i notice a slight a similarity with a wider topic, that of migration, to be discussed by our leaders later this week. it is clear to everybody that solutions to the migration crisis can only be comprehensive. there can only be european solutions, and this is the spirit of leaders’ discussions this week as is clear from the letter of president tusk, if you read it in full. so let us not let this one line in president tusk’s letter overshadow the wide content of leaders’ discussions or prejudge its results. let it not overshadow all the union’s achievements in the field of defence, social, education, culture, digital, etc., that will be on the european council agenda later this week.
in writing. i support the motion for a resolution. in the last few weeks progress has been made on the issues which are important to us, the situation of the citizens of the union, the irish-irish border and the question of financial commitments. the time has come to stick to these agreements and not to destroy the basis of trust for the negotiations on the future relationship between the eu and the united kingdom that are now to follow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would point out that in the review you carried out previously on paragraph 45, the screen first showed motion 6 and then motion 45. i do not want to call for a new vote, but in such close votes it should be very carefully shown what is being voted on.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think schengen is one of the most fundamental expressions of the european idea, the idea to cross borders, to overcome borders, overcome differences that divide us and to grow together. that is the european ideal, and that is being expressed by schengen. every member state has the right, but even the obligation, to join schengen as soon as it fulfils the criteria for the common membership. and those conditions, those criteria, are very clear. they are crystal clear and the procedures should not be changed in the middle of the process. precisely because schengen is so important, it is such an important right for all european citizens, it cannot be withheld from particular member states and from their citizens. it is a right, and we cannot allow second-class citizens to be established. another rightful expectation of citizens is that the rule of law be upheld. if we are looking now at romania, this does not seem to be totally guaranteed. we are very worried about the proposed changes to the justice laws that are currently being discussed and debated in the romanian parliament, and eu citizens in romania are expecting europe to do something about it. i think we absolutely have to do something, and i want to thank those people in romania who go out on the street and demonstrate for their rights, for democracy, and are telling all of us, all the time reminding us, that democracy is more than going to vote once in a while, it is more than having the rule of the majority. it tells us that there is also the responsibility of the majority for all citizens. we stand with you. but it is very clear that schengen is also and especially for those people – they are european citizens, they need to be allowed to travel freely like everyone. i am also very proud that the european parliament has been very clear on this all the time and now it is time for the council to act, and i hope it will do this very soon.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the competence for european labour markets is rightly vested in the national states. each nation state is responsible for the social benefits it can afford and for those it cannot finance. the eurozone therefore also has a prohibition on taking on liability. each nation state must be responsible for the social benefits it should not have afforded itself. the social pillar, the planned creation of a european labour authority in the first half of 2018, the european social security number and various other legislative initiatives seek to bring labour market competences to the union level. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and this must be done in a way that is consistent with the principles of the treaty of rome. this is a violation of the principle of individual responsibility. the aim is to promote convergence and economic convergence between the member states, particularly within the euro zone. this requires transfers between member states. social rights should lead to the right to transfers. these transfers will bring about convergence from above, the exact opposite of what was promised to the people at the beginning of the eurosystem. the countries with fiscal responsibility should share their relative wealth, if it can be said so, with everyone. the pillar of social rights is not just a catalogue of ideas for use by member states. although the concerns set out in 20 principles are not legally binding and implementation is to be the responsibility of national governments, the choice of words, the emphasis on 'rights' and 'principles' can be inferred by courts, possibly including the european court of justice, that there are indeed claims arising from them. the court of justice has already used policy documents of this kind in other cases to assess the division of powers. the ecr is sceptical about the social pillar for the reasons mentioned above. we reject a substantial labour and social model of the eu. subsidiarity and own responsibility are our principles, and they used to be the principles of the eu.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a short reply to mrs trebesius: i do not know whether you can argue with the same self-confidence and arrogance to the homeless and hundreds of thousands of poor people in the european union that the european union should still be a union in which the interests of banks and the economy are served first and in which we are no longer interested in the common - the cohesion of the union - at all. you have just pleaded that we should abandon solidarity between people, that we should not care at all whether in greece, in portugal, in many eastern european countries, people have the chance to have a future, and that they are not as important to us as the people in our own countries, for whom we are fighting to bring them out of social misery. i would like to make one point in this connection, because i think we are going around in circles at the moment and the cat is biting its tail. the fact that it has now been decided that the fiscal compact will be transposed into eu law does not, in my view, improve our situation and the contradictions in which we find ourselves. as long as the priorities of the european semester are to keep the debt limit, to intervene in budgetary management and to allow cuts, especially in social, educational and health spending, we will always be in conflict. i support all efforts to strengthen the social security systems in the member states, but this would also be possible with the concrete support of the european union. we do not need to break treaties, we do not need to break subsidiarity, but we must take our shared responsibility. i support you in that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what happened in europe 60 years ago is truly a historical miracle. people who had just met on the battlefield and who were supposed to hate each other came together and the project 'european unity' was born. if we want to build on this project of european unity for the next 60 years, we must have the same courage and the same vision as people had 60 years ago. i believe that a very central point will be whether we succeed in achieving more social justice within the european union. the social rights pillar is an important first step. but we need to go further: we need a legally binding document on social rights for all eu citizens. we need more legislative proposals, such as a minimum income directive or a europe-wide minimum wage, to really show people that the european union is becoming more social. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are not discriminated against. today we are still so far from that goal. it is time the commission finally put forward legislation in this area too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the former commission president, jacques delors, knew that no one falls in love with a single market. if the eu is to win the support of the people, it must be able to make it clear that europe is good for the people, that it improves the living conditions of the people, not that it makes them worse. unfortunately, in recent years, this has not always been possible. many people associate the eu primarily with adapting to a globalisation that benefits few and harms many regions and people. this is also one of the causes of the growth of nationalism, which unfortunately has no prospects. that is why the new debate on the social dimension of europe is so important. but warm words are not enough. we need concrete european measures and legislation, such as a posting directive which effectively protects against intra-european wage and social dumping, such as a european child guarantee guaranteeing all children access to free education, health care and adequate housing. but we also need a different economic and financial policy which finally puts the fight against unemployment, and above all youth unemployment, at the centre. the fine speeches of sunday must finally be followed by legislative initiatives and changed actions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, the eurostat report is certainly helpful in determining successes and failures. but we need three more tools: first, mainstreaming all policies towards the sdgs; second, adequate and coherent funding; and third, political leadership to keep the sdgs on the agenda as a priority. i ask the commission: is there a governance structure for the sdg checks? what is the commission's role? the same applies, of course, to the council and, as my colleagues have said, to us. we also need a structure in parliament for monitoring, as mr goerens said, and for accompanying the sdgs. the question to the commission is: will the new multilateral financial framework respect what we spend our money on? this is a test for the next mfr. and finally, we need partners in the world. we talk about climate diplomacy, but we also need sdg diplomacy, so that we don't just do this in europe, but others do this as well.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was at the united nations in 2015, with commissioners timmermans and mimica and mrs mogherini, when the 2030 development goals were announced and at the same time a strategy was announced. i am sorry to say that this is not yet available. it is high time we developed a european roadmap, as europe has to present its results in new york in 2019. the monitoring by eurostat which is under discussion today is far too shortsighted. i am doing this, for example, on objective 12 of sustainable consumption and production. the global importance and impact of supply chains, in particular textile supply chains, offers the opportunity to address and improve, among other issues, consumer protection for eu citizens, working conditions in europe, and in particular working and environmental conditions in the producing countries. when i was in new york again this year at the united nations on the sdgs, denmark and estonia were there to showcase their sdgs and their work on them, using the textile supply chain. i ask the commission to finally make the progress it announced and to take action in this urgently needed area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. a strong democracy must also accept the symbols, songs and flags of the historical past. if a democracy forbids symbolism, then that democracy is weak and no longer believes in its own persuasiveness. if you now unilaterally exclude the 60 million murdered, the trail of violence and bloodshed left by the communists, whose symbols you do not touch, you are damaging the values of the european union, which must apply equally to all - to all, regardless of their race, religion, worldview or political convictions. they are thus creating new totalitarian structures with prohibitions. do you still believe in your constantly prayer-mill-listed so-called values of the european union? these values are now often anti-family, anti-fatherland, anti-religion, anti-normal relations between the sexes, and now they are being added to by anti-freedom of conscience and anti-freedom of expression. freedom of expression is either total or non-existent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have followed with great interest your comments on the ban on fascist symbols and slogans throughout europe which is being discussed here, and i would like to encourage the commission and the council, as well as parliament, to continue this discussion intensively. finally, this is a practice which is already being applied in germany. but i also want to say that for us the political struggle against neo-nazism and fascism is more important than mere symbolic politics, and this policy must be based on social justice, solidarity and the equality of life. it is thus in contrast to the austerity policies of recent years, which have increased inequality in society and strengthened the fascist movement. we have also had far too many representatives of right-wing populist and openly fascist parties in this parliament. we have suffered this in the course of this debate. europe does not need nazi symbols, europe does not need nazi slogans, but it does not need nazis. their politics do not belong here in parliament or anywhere else. fascism is not an opinion, it's a crime.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear colleagues, thank you for this unfortunately still very topical debate. we have recently celebrated the 60th anniversary of the rome treaty. 60 years of a union of peace and prosperity, built on the ruins and ashes of war and division, 60 years of democracy and freedom. we would, however, be mistaken to take for granted that the divisions, the xenophobia, the nationalism, the populism of 60 years ago are entirely gone. our debate today shows that we continue to fight them every day and that the ghosts of the past are still lingering. in 21st century europe there should be no place for fascism, for racism, for anti-semitism, for any type of exclusion or discrimination, for any sort of totalitarian regime. we have the laws at european and national level to protect our fundamental rights, but we must also practice the spirit of this law in our everyday language and actions. to defeat xenophobia, racism and discrimination takes not only legislation. it is not all about laws. it’s about efforts and justice. democratic europe stands for these principles and does not forget. it also takes leadership, responsibility, democratic duty, citizens’ vigilance. honourable members, i count on you to carry the words and intentions of our debate today further in your actions and interventions, here and in your countries. our fight is not over. stay vigilant, the threat is still there.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, let me assure you once again that the estonian presidency, and of course the council as a whole, rejects all forms of racism, xenophobia, intolerance and extreme nationalism. we have a legal framework in place which needs to be effectively implemented in practice, but we need to support the laws with targeted measures to prevent and tackle intolerance, such as education, public debate and counter-narratives. honourable member halla- aho disagreed with me, saying that the symbols are just ink on paper and are not dangerous as such. it just happens to be so and that those nations who have experienced a more direct impact of totalitarian regimes tend to be more inclined to banning these symbols. i think they know better. the council will continue to follow this issue very closely and i can assure you that i paid particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me start by assuring the house that the council shares the view that committees of inquiry are important instruments for this parliament to exercise its political control. in this spirit, and in respect of its duty of sincere cooperation, the council is therefore prepared to examine constructively proposals for a revision of the current rules on the exercise of parliament’s right of inquiry. as you know the first proposal for a regulation on the exercise of the parliament’s right of inquiry, the so-called martin report from 2011, raised serious legal and institutional concerns in the council and in the commission. indeed it foresaw a far-reaching extension of the rights of committees of inquiry, which was considered contrary to article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. also a more moderate revised proposal from 2014 did not resolve the fundamental legal and institutional issues with regard to the limits imposed by the above-mentioned article. following informal contacts between our institutions it was thus agreed in october 2016 to mandate the legal services of the three institutions to further spell out the legal and institutional issues, with a view to helping parliament clarify the content of its proposal. on the basis of this mandate the experts of the three legal services had nine meetings at a technical level between december 2016 and may 2017. in may they submitted the result of their work to their respective hierarchies. we have been waiting for a meeting at directors-general level to take place in order to finalise the joint paper before its submission to the political authorities of the three institutions. the council stands ready to continue the work once we have the outcome of the three legal services on the table. i would not however expect that the legal services will come up with a ready-made solution, or ready-made solutions, to all the thorny legal and institutional issues raised by this file, and indeed laid out by the previous speaker, but their input will facilitate finding a common way forward, including helping parliament to elaborate on a new text which will have a chance to obtain the consent of the council and the commission.
member of the commission. – mr president, dear colleagues, let me first welcome the opportunity offered by this oral question to set out the commission’s position regarding the important right of inquiry of the european parliament. article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union sets forth parliament’s right to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementation of union law, without prejudice to the powers conferred by the treaties to the other institutions and bodies. this tool represents, in the european union treaties, the traditional control functions of the parliament over the activities of the executive branch, a key component of every functioning democracy. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the current rule from 1995 needs to be replaced by a new regulation proposed by the european parliament. however, it needs the consent of the council and the commission before it can enter into force. as we all know, this has been a complicated and politically sensitive file ever since the parliament presented its proposal for a regulation in 2012. to be sure, the commission has engaged in constructive dialogue, at technical and political level, honouring the principle of sincere cooperation between the institutions. at the same time, the commission has always been very clear about the points that raised concerns while offering constructive solutions. the commission takes good note of the solution-oriented attitude the parliament has taken so far, and i would like to thank in particular the current rapporteur, mr jáuregui atondo, for his continued commitment and constructive approach with regard to the trilateral work. let me stress here the commission’s continued willingness and commitment to engage in constructive trilateral discussions with the parliament and the council. our aim is to find appropriate solutions to the divergences that still exist between the institutions, so that after parliament’s vote on a final legislative resolution, the commission can give its consent in accordance with article 226 of the treaty, with due regard to its institutional prerogatives. in this respect, i’m pleased to reaffirm that, in the commission’s view, the constructive cooperation of the representatives of the legal services of the three institutions, which was started at the end of 2016, has borne its fruit. it has been overall a useful exercise that allowed for identifying possible agreement on large parts of a common text as well as avenues for possible compromise on other issues. however, although our legal experts have made significant progress on pending legal and institutional issues, important divergences still exist between the institutions. throughout the process, the commission has been very transparent about its concerns. to briefly sum up. firstly, this is particularly the case for the scope and duration of the mandate of the temporary committee of inquiry. secondly, the incompatibilities between the investigations of the committee of inquiry and ongoing legal proceedings established by the treaty. thirdly, the rules on specification of document requests and the protection of sensitive documents or testimonies. moreover, the commission believes that there are other issues that merit serious further discussions, including: the investigative means at parliament’s disposal, the coercive measures which the parliament asked to be put in place for failure to cooperate or for unsatisfactory testimony by natural and legal persons and political sanctions and legal remedies. the commission also believes that the future legal framework for parliament’s right of inquiry must be discussed in the light of the practical experience of the recent emis and pana committees of inquiry. earlier today this plenary presented its recommendations to the council and commission following the work of the pana committee, which includes recommendations on the implementation of parliament’s right of inquiry. with this valuable, practical experience now fully available, the inter-institutional work in view of the update of the legal framework for the exercise of parliament’s right to inquiry could usefully be resumed. let me emphasise again the commission is standing ready to resume trilateral work at the appropriate level, i now look forward to hearing the views of all members and of the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the repeatedly expressed willingness to cooperate in lofty aims is being undermined. this is a mourning game. this has not only been the case since 2014, but also since 2011, not five council presidencies, but eleven council presidencies. and the right to investigate is one of the important rights of a modern parliament. it is not just about controlling governments, but about controlling situations in which governments are sometimes involved. this right is not sufficiently expressed in the european parliament. it is a right of the last millennium and it is urgent to change this right. the lisbon treaty offers these possibilities. but if you read the text, it also contains an obligation for the council and the commission to cooperate. and that is precisely the cooperation that is massively denied. mr maasikas has said here that in may the legal services reached an agreement. since then, they have obviously been waiting for an appointment with their bosses, so that they can have an appointment with the ceos. don't think we don't know where the rabbit is in the pepper! it's about us wanting to collect evidence. the point is that we want to call witnesses and we need to give witnesses reasons if they don't show up. and the point is that if someone tells the untruth in front of this committee of inquiry, then he is also punished according to his national law and has to expect sanctions. that is perjury in my eyes if you say that under oath. ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, let us move! tell me where you think your rights have been violated, and we can talk about it. or at least tell me you don't want to. it would be more honest.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have five comments to make. firstly, the committee on petitions has had a successful year again this year. i would also like to thank the secretariat and the chairman of peti, mrs wikström, for this. secondly, to the rapporteur: mr maria's work was 99 per cent very good, 1 per cent not. he said it himself, his problem is german repair costs. i like consistent colleagues, but sometimes your consistency tends to lead to stubbornness. i think that the house will vote on the report today in such a way that it will be put back in order, also in your interest, so that your 99% where you have done a good job will also be in the minutes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's good for the applicants. my motto is: better a quick piece of bad news than a multiannual petition procedure with the same answer. fourthly, abuse: my colleagues will add to it. unfortunately, we have also had a tendency this year to see some groups actually misusing the committee on petitions on certain subjects. it is also a matter of responsibility. the cost of reparations, the cost of citizenship, is simply and poignantly beyond our competence in the committee on petitions. that would be the first clear answer. and fifth, network: this is the new invention. we hope that we can expand that. the experience of the other specialist committees could be the premium segment of the petitions committee. we often have petitions where we understand the petitioner, but there are legal regulations against it. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has already taken a number of decisions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is a very detailed report that shows all the facets of transport and the potential for decarbonisation. in this context, i would like to thank rapporteur bas eickhout and our shadow rapporteur, mrs graswander-hainz. it is undisputed that transport and transport in general must become cleaner, and it is also not contradictory that we can achieve the environmental objectives on the one hand, but on the other hand also maintain and expand the industrial base with its many hundreds of thousands of jobs. however, this requires a coherent medium to long-term strategy. mobility is a complex system in which each subsystem has its own functional logic. for example, urban transport works differently from long-distance transport, and car transport works differently from truck transport, air transport or even shipping. the first step in reducing emissions is to start in cities, in urban transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the digital revolution also brings great opportunities. i believe that digitalisation, digital applications and digital connectivity also offer a great opportunity for decarbonisation. what are we doing on the long haul? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would remind you of the various white papers which have dealt with this. if we are to succeed in this, the railways must also become more attractive and they must be relieved of their tax burden. there is also a need for investment in infrastructure throughout europe. and when we talk about infrastructure - and you have mentioned this, commissioner - of course we must develop alternative engines and alternative fuels. i am surprised - let me say this - that the commission has only come up with a communication in the mobility package and not with legislation. the report is good, it should be approved. having said this, colleagues, dear president, i wish all of you a merry christmas and a happy new year.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the transport sector is still 95% dependent on fossil fuels and is the only sector where greenhouse gas emissions have actually increased over the last 25 years. i very much welcome our report on low-emission mobility. we are making important moves towards cleaner and more efficient mobility. i would like to emphasize two points. first, if we want to find ecologically and economically sound solutions, openness to technology must be the guiding principle. there will be no single solution for all forms of mobility. with all the strengths of battery electric propulsion, we should not be too quick to strangle all other innovations. secondly, this strategy must not be confined to urban dwellers. we must not forget the mobility needs of people in rural europe. it is precisely where the provision of public transport is becoming increasingly difficult that we must continue to ensure affordable mobility in the future.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but let us not lose sight of the principle of proportionality in all our good approaches. we are on the right track by setting clear objectives. what we do not need are european guidelines on how to achieve these objectives. we need a technology-neutral approach that takes into account the overall footprint. if you think that only electric vehicles are zero-emission vehicles, you should ask yourself where the energy for them comes from and how they and their batteries are produced and disposed of. the commission's proposal is to set a minimum number for the share of electric vehicles. we should refrain from punishing certain modes of transport, because every mode of transport has its place, especially in intermodal transport. i am not in favour of punishing people, because it is more effective to encourage energy and environmental measures. that is why we do not need a tax on kerosene and i cannot accept the general demonization of the diesel engine or of combustion engines in general. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the transport system, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, the rules of procedure. i thought the commission's legislative proposals for lower emissions from cars and trucks had been on the table for weeks. why do we not deal with this legislation today, concretely and very quickly, also in the sense of rapid environmental protection? why are we wasting our time and taxpayers' money on wishful thinking and rather unrealistic goals today? but thanks to the shadow reporters, especially massimiliano salini, who has made green utopias a little more real. we all want to move quickly into the zero-emission era. but that can only happen if we leave space for innovation in science and business. that is the political difference. we are talking about a framework for design, in which we provide a legal framework for technological innovation, open to technology, with companies, with citizens. the greens and the left do not want to shape. they want to forbid and educate. they talk about a prohibitory framework, quotas, austerity measures, and barriers to technology selection. whether it's electric mobility or energy-efficient buildings, let's give solar, wind and water a chance to get into our homes and cars as quickly and as cheaply as possible. not a few politicians can think of that. we need the innovative power of business and science. we need a fair design framework.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. almost exactly two years ago, on 16 december, human rights lawyer nguyen van dai was arrested on his way to a meeting with eu representatives participating in the annual human rights dialogue with vietnam. and like many other prisoners, he's still awaiting trial. in today's resolution, we call for the release of blogger and environmental activist nguyen van hoa. he was sentenced to seven years in prison for anti-state propaganda. his only fault was that he called for a protest against one of the biggest environmental disasters in vietnam. in april 2016, a taiwanese steel plant leaked toxic dioxin into the sea. millions of dead fish washed ashore along the coast. the disaster thus destroyed the livelihood of the local fishermen and their families. vietnam must immediately end the ongoing crackdown on journalists and political activists and unconditionally release all political prisoners. among them is the blogger nguyen ngoc nhu quynh. she was sentenced to ten years in prison for propaganda against the state, and only last week, on november 30, was this sentence confirmed.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. on 16 november, the supreme court of cambodia dissolved the only opposition parliamentary party at the request of the government. the 118 elected members of the european parliament are banned from political activity for five years. the cnrp's mandates are divided at the national and local levels between the ruling party and unelected members of other small parties. this is a real blow to democracy in cambodia. prime minister hun sen is doing everything to ensure his re-election. the 2018 national election cannot be free and fair without a legitimate opposition and an independent electoral commission. but the eu must not lend legitimacy to unfree and unfair elections by supporting them. critical ngos and media are threatened or banned altogether. human rights activists must fear for their freedom or even their lives. only a few days ago, the politically motivated sentence for tep vanny was confirmed. freedom of speech is a different matter. the suspension of eu support for the national electoral commission is a first logical consequence. the eu must send a clear signal to prime minister hun sen and his government that their actions are unacceptable to the eu by means of targeted sanctions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, teodora and evelyn are two women who have faced unbearable hardships in their lives. not only have they suffered miscarriages, now they are being charged for murder and have been sentenced to prison for years and years. to the salvadorian authorities: release teodora, evelyn and all the other women who are in prison for a miscarriage. the current law in el salvador is misogyny poured into law. it is an outcome of an ideology and a quest for absolute patriarchal power over female bodies. no matter where a woman is born, her body belongs to her and not to the state or to men who believe they know what to do with it. women have a right to life too. my body, my rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, the eu is very much aware of the situation of women prosecuted for miscarriage in el salvador. the eu does not comment on judicial decisions but observes with significant concern that on many occasions maximum criminal penalties were applied to women who had a miscarriage in el salvador. respect for the rule of law is one of the fundamental values upon which the eu is based. therefore the eu is very much attached to the presumption of innocence, as well as to upholding the principles of proportionality, due process and the provision of legal aid in all judicial processes. to follow up the situation closely, the eu is in regular contact with local associations, such as citizens’ groups, which provide support to women and girls during their trials. under the european instrument for democracy and human rights, the eu has also supported the provision of legal assistance to human rights organisations. the relative scarcity of sexual and reproductive health services in el salvador is another important obstacle to address the issue of miscarriage. it is also a key area of progress to improve women’s lives in the country. respect for, and the promotion of, women’s rights is at the core of the eu agenda in el salvador and beyond. from a human rights angle, the total ban on abortion foreseen in the constitution and criminal code of el salvador is worrying, especially when the lives of pregnant women or young girls are at risk or in cases of rape. total bans on abortion are also a problem in several other countries in latin america. the eu raises this issue at the highest level in el salvador and welcomes the efforts deployed by the government to improve in a comprehensive manner the alarming situation of women. among other initiatives, the eu has provided support to the flagship and successful programme ‘ciudad mujer’ (women’s city), created by the government and which has meaningfully contributed to enhancing women’s and girls’ access to sexual and reproductive health services, but also to address gender-based violence, as well as to promote women’s economic empowerment. the eu encourages el salvador and all other countries concerned by this important challenge to continue pursuing efforts in this direction and stands ready to help on this issue.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. i would remind you once again that your vote counts only if you withdraw your card after the vote has been closed. i wish you all a safe journey home. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. the same applies, of course, to services.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. i would like to wish mr kelly, mrs anderson and mr sógor a very special good journey home, a merry christmas and a good start to what will hopefully be a healthy year in 2018. the same, of course, applies to all the helping spirits, the services and the few spectators we have left.
