mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would say that this is a very sympathetic proposal, a very sympathetic idea with the social pillar. the economic and social dimension must be considered together and there must be european responses to the challenges in this field. that said, the competences of the member states and the treaties must also be respected, and i assume that the commission is prepared to do so. in this connection, it is no secret that in the nordic countries we have very well functioning models in this area, which are about flexibility and where flexibility is at the heart, where it is a matter of the social partners voluntarily cooperating to obtain the best models. it has been a great success for almost a hundred years. the proposal before us now involves a whole series of legislative measures, which of course we are very concerned about. in this connection, there is talk of a legally fixed european minimum wage, but i am glad to see that the commissioner has distanced himself from this in the danish newspapers. we need a voluntary arrangement and of course that this will be respected. i would ask the commissioner to confirm that.
mr president, thank you for that. i don’t know whether the interpreter got my question to you, commissioner, but i asked if you could confirm that you actually said to the danish press that this minimum wage discussion is a matter of subsidiarity and that we will find national solutions to this. could you confirm that?
in writing. a cornerstone of the european digital agenda is the free movement of data. at the same time, it is clear that the free flow of data requires that sensitive personal data be handled in a completely secure and secure manner and that eu member states are able to impose necessary restrictions for reasons of national security. this can only be achieved by common legislation and common definitions in the eu. studies by ecipe show that huge sums could be released into the european economy if existing bottlenecks were removed. estimates go as high as €8 billion a year. an amount that will be realized in savings for european citizens and businesses. at the same time, we also see a trend towards more national requirements for data of different types to be stored within geographically defined areas. if this trend continues, the european economy could lose up to €52 billion a year (about dkk 387 billion) as a result, according to the studies mentioned above. i would therefore urge the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals for common european legislation in this area so that we can secure the sensitive information of european citizens and businesses in the best possible way, avoid costly special requirements and free up large sums for an investment-hungry european economy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking vice-president šefčovič for all the hard work he is doing to bring the energy union to life. this is very much needed! the status of the energy union, which we are discussing today, shows with all the desirable clarity that action is needed. action if the eu and europe are to assume global leadership in climate, renewable energy and energy efficiency. and action if we are to meet the objectives of the energy union and strengthen the green transition. it takes ambition, it takes courage, and it takes action! because we can see from the report here today that there are indeed countries which are becoming more dependent on imported energy from outside. and we can see from the report that the european transmission networks are not equipped to deal with this integration of renewable energy, which is absolutely crucial. and we can see that if we put energy efficiency first, yes, we can make significant progress, not least through renovating buildings. these are initiatives that reduce the cost of energy for european citizens, initiatives that simultaneously improve indoor climate and create healthy buildings, all while creating local jobs, for the benefit of us all. it requires that we find ways to unlock private funding as well, so that private funds can come into play. i welcome this report and look forward to working with you. we have a lot of things to do here in the next period if we are to assume global leadership.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the vice-president and commissioner šefčovič for their explanations. i agree with the commissioner that we are on the right track, but i have already heard a number of political speeches and complaints today which, in the end, probably boil down to the fact that the member state in question has left its citizens in the lurch on energy policy for several years. the winter package is a good starting point and we have the opportunity here in parliament to improve both the text and the content of the package. clearly, there are a number of challenges. we need to reduce our dependence on imports from putin's russia and from the middle east. we must create a single energy market in europe and we must make better use of the energy we have in europe today. there are plenty of options in the directives that are now available around energy efficiency, renewable energy, electricity market design, governance, etc. as rapporteur for energy efficiency in buildings, i can already see that there are plenty of opportunities. one of the problems we have to solve in this directive is to get private funds for energy renewal. we know that these are only new buildings, which represent one and a half per cent of the building stock per year. the remaining old building stock in europe is inefficient, expensive and bad. that is why there is a real need to unleash some private pension funds in europe.
for the ecr group. mr president, the truth about the eu's response to the migration crisis is that it has been an ineffective symptomatic response. we have seen about a million people migrate to europe in both 2015 and 2016, and all the initiatives so far have only resulted in pushing refugees and migrants onto a more dangerous route, not in addressing the fundamental problems that provide the incentives to come from the periphery to europe. basically, the only humane, the only realistic and the only concrete solution to the migration challenge is to implement a variant of the australian model, where we take the bread out of the mouths of the people smugglers by knowing that there is no longer an economic incentive to come to europe. a model where we help refugees where they are most numerous and where the most vulnerable refugees are, namely in the immediate area. that we are massively investing in emergency aid and safe zones instead of believing that we can prevent the world's poor from coming to europe as long as it is financially possible to pay smugglers, with the clear knowledge in the back of our mind that there is an incredibly high chance of being able to stay, either temporarily or permanently, if we can find ways to the european authorities. until we realise that, all our attempts in this parliament to tackle the problem will only push people onto more and more dangerous routes and only create more misery and hardship, both for the people concerned and for the european countries that cannot cope with the situation.
i have to say, madam president, last year, when we had our great debate on glyphosate, both agriculture and many member states complained that we in parliament wanted to reduce the renewal of the glyphosate licence. they said it was because we simply lack good alternatives to glyphosate. today we are discussing what we can do to ensure that we get low-risk pesticides on the market faster and better. i think there is a great need for it and that is why we need to look more closely at what are some of the barriers that make it so difficult to get them on the market. this is regardless of whether they are organic or non-organic low pesticide products. i think we need to look more closely at where the barriers are and how we can accelerate a process that allows us to get non-harmful or less harmful pesticides to market faster. this is necessary for agriculture, for the health of citizens and for the environment.
i have to say, madam president, it is less than six months since we in this parliament ratified the paris agreement. here we welcomed ban ki-moon and we committed the eu to reduce our emissions by at least 40% by 2030. and it is now that we must deliver on the commitments we said yes to. we can only do this if we reform the eu's quota trading system. our aim should be to make pollution costly, it is the only way to ensure that companies have incentives to make green investments too. at the moment, prices are so low that the quota system has almost no effect at all. it's a pity, it's bad for the climate. but we are changing that now, and with the proposal that is here from parliament we are taking a really big step in the right direction. nothing in this system is perfect, there are many things that could be better, but by reforming the quota trading system we are moving in that direction in favour of the climate. we are reducing the number of allowances by 2.4%, and we are ensuring that the co2 allowances in 2021 are actually going to be in line with the actual emissions that are going to be in 2021. overall, this will mean that we will reduce emissions and also ensure that our industry becomes greener. it is necessary if we are to deliver on our commitments under the paris agreement, it is necessary if we are to secure our climate in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. (laughter) ... an important decision which will be voted on wednesday and it is important that europe remains competitive. we have a very real task to tackle, and the pragmatic forces in europe must come together with a clear signal that we want to deliver a more sustainable industry and a better climate. there will be a real price to pay for pollution and industry will have clear incentives to improve and innovate and will be helped to do so. but no rose without thorns! to start regulating the shipping industry outside the imo is downright foolish and harmful in the long run. border adjustment mechanism, it is not compatible with the wto and that will be very damaging to the cement industry - as has also been pointed out by other colleagues - and we hope that the amendment will correct that.
i have to say, madam president, good evening, commissioner. how are you? as you can see in this report, there is a broad support for competition policy in the eu as a very, very important tool. we would like to see more things added. i would like to emphasize two things. i think that the commission needs to be given more powers and more resources to ensure that our competition policy is properly implemented, for example by setting up more standing travel teams, task forces, which can go around and investigate suspicions of unfair competition, not only in the big sectors, not only where there is a lot at stake, but also where there are less cases at stake in the smaller sectors. competition policy is important. i would also like to see us consider whether we could also use the consumer compensation rules in competition policy. there are areas where fines cannot be imposed, but where we might be able to provide better consumer compensation. for example, we have seen it in dieselgate, where consumers have lost and nothing has happened. here too, perhaps something could be done to ensure fair competition. but anyway, thanks for the great effort.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, i would also like to speak directly to mrs mogherini, even though she is not here. mrs mogherini, last week you said that the regulatory act, if implemented, would - and i quote you - further cement a one-state conflict with unequal rights, perpetual occupation and conflict. your words are entirely consistent with the international law definition of apartheid. israel's president rivlin himself has said that the implementation of this law will make israel look - i quote again - like an apartheid state. if you and rivlin both believe that israel is in danger of becoming an apartheid state, why would you now, for the first time in five years, call for a meeting with israel in the eu's association council? it will be seen as a reward for israel's settlement policy. i would remind you that the late prime minister rabin, back in 1976, called the settlements a 'cancerous tumor'. mrs mogherini, i have four questions: when will you start defending some of the few remaining peace advocates, such as breaking the silence? when will you ensure that the eu recognises palestine as a state and thus send the palestinian people a proper message of hope? why do you not live up to the eu's policy of genuine separation from israel and the illegal settlements? and finally, when will you demand compensation for israel's destruction of eu-funded projects in the west bank, as you have promised here in parliament?
i have to say, madam president, the ecr group and the danish people's party had wanted today's debate to be about how to restart the peace process. instead, a majority in this house - which they have become accustomed to - has chosen that we should debate once again on the premise that everything that palestine does is right and everything that israel does is wrong. the truth is that there will be no comprehensive peace solution or any real solution to this problem until all these individual elements are taken together. the policy of this house of recognising a palestinian state before there is a peace solution, of attacking the settlements again and again and of promoting terrorist activities with eu funds in the palestinian authority is only helping to derail the eu as a neutral actor and not to bring about peace in the middle east or between israelis and palestinians. the whole debate here is counterproductive, but i am sure we will have it again and again, and i am sure we will just play the eu further and further away as a possible conflict mediator in the conflict.
madam chairman! the commissioner is not here. we politicians have a simple duty to always strive for better standards, for better protection of workers, the environment, the climate and public health. we must always put the welfare of people above the interests of profit. these are principles, values and attitudes that i consider to be absolutely essential. and that's the way it's gonna be! in the ceta agreement, we have for the first time really written these guarantees, indeed these values, directly into a trade agreement. together with canada, we are opening a new chapter for fair and sustainable trade. we are putting the rightly hated isds mechanism to rest and we are stating with a straight face that companies cannot sue countries because they lose revenue because of stricter new national or european rules. only the democratically elected representatives of the people should make laws, and they should be able to do so freely. that is one of the reasons why i, as a social democrat, support the ceta agreement and hope that it will be adopted later today. thank you for speaking.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i went into parliament this morning, there were a lot of young people on the ground outside the entrance, demonstrating. and i have to say, i found that quite uplifting. all the time when young people are sitting in the street in queues, it's usually because they're sitting waiting for an iphone or something, but here it's someone who chose to stand up or rather to lie down for a political idea that they believe in. i think that deserves all the honor and respect. but when that's said, the consensus stops, too. i have voted in favour of ceta, and i am voting simply because i think that free trade is good in principle. it's even better when it's regulated like this. i believe that, in terms of the legal system, in terms of consumer and environmental protection and the whole open political process that has been around this agreement, we are today faced with the best free trade agreement in the world. and at a time when we have a president trump who is trying to isolate himself and with protectionism, i think that the step we have taken today from the european team and from the canadian team is the right signal to send to the outside world.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have great respect and honour for those who wish to speak for the 3.5 million who have signed, but do not make yourselves the 'voice of the people', for then i would like to make myself the voice of the 496.5 million who have not signed a protest against ceta, and who know full well that this is an agreement which may in fact be the best free trade agreement we have ever seen in the world. and i would like to deal briefly with the investment court system, which has been mentioned by many as the very big problem in this agreement. it is also true that the possibility of suing states is already provided for in virtually all free trade agreements through the system we have today, which is an ad hoc system. now we finally have a transparent system but a very strict code of conduct, and that should be in everyone's interest. therefore, a clear yes to this agreement today.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank my colleagues on both the employment and transport committees for standing together in the fight for better conditions in european aviation. better rules are needed here and now. the rules we have today simply do not work well enough. it is a great loss both to the employees and to the companies that are behaving properly. in the quest for cheap tickets, we see a race to the bottom, to worse conditions, to salaries that cannot be lived on, and to an extreme creative exploitation of the rules. the time has come to take responsibility and ensure proper relations. no worker should be in doubt as to which country he has to pay taxes in and which country he has his social security. we need to get rid of all the creative forms of employment that try to get around this. the adoption of this report will require us in the european parliament to unite and urge the commission to come forward with concrete proposals to ensure fair competition and decent working conditions. we must act now or the future of european aviation will be in the black!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted in favour of the report by mr verhofstadt. it was not a difficult choice, because i am a declared federalist, but that was not really why i voted for it. it is in the recognition that we are facing a europe which, in order to solve the great challenges of our time, in order to solve the security crisis facing the citizens of europe, must recognize that our cooperation is in many ways based on a dysfunctional basis, which is due to a systemic failure. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. but i would like to make one point, now that i have said that i voted in favour, and that is the elements relating to political distribution policy, which do not belong in such a report. for example, the financial transaction tax has nothing to do with federalism. it is a question of socialism or liberalism, and all these political things must have a place within a federal union, and therefore should have been taken out of the report. but nevertheless an excellent report.
mr. chairman, please. if we are to choose the right future for the eu, it is important that we start by making one thing absolutely clear: brexit was not the disease, it was the symptom of the disease. the disease is a union which for too many years has gone farther in integration and in a federal direction than the member states and, not least, the people of the union wanted. that is why it is crucial that the commission now addresses the member states and says: are we going to go in the direction of a less important europe, a more reformed europe, back to the idea of the internal market as the pivotal point and not the federal union? if we do that, i believe we have a future as a european community based on common values. on the other hand, if we move in the federal direction towards a european superstate, i am sure that brexit will be only the first in a series of countries that will seek their happiness outside the community rather than within it. that should be the concern of both the commission and the eu federalists in this house. i hope we choose the sensible path. i hope we will choose the path which means cooperation, which we can be together on, and not a federal union which we all want to get out of.
mr president, i would like to thank president juncker for this white paper. we need a strong europe and we need leadership on the challenges of globalisation that no country can deal with by itself. that is clear. we need to harvest the good side of globalisation but we also need to deal with the negative side. we need a solidarity pact between the european member states and the eu as such, to stop the race to the bottom, for example on tax and corporate taxation. we can see that there is a race to the bottom on tax payment, we can see the eur 1 trillion cost every year of tax evasion and tax avoidance in europe: eur 2000 per citizen per year, money that could be spent to protect our welfare state. we also need to stop the race to the bottom on workers’ rights, decent salaries and decent working conditions. so we need a solidarity pact that can protect the worker in the age of globalisation, and we need leadership on the migration crisis, not only patrolling our eu external borders but also fighting the root causes of migration and the refugee crisis, which is the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war.
mr president, i would like to thank you. unfortunately, it is as predictable as it is terrible that it is the most vulnerable, namely children, who are the most affected, when we see the chaos of asylum created in europe in recent years. the solution is as logical as it has been difficult for the eu countries to come up with, namely that it is a matter of addressing the root of the problem, that is, it is a matter of helping us to undo the mechanisms that allow human traffickers to make a lucrative business by abusing people's hopes of getting to europe, including the abuse of children - something of the most terrible kind that can be imagined. so it is not a question of everyone in this room thinking that it is terrible when children are abused, also in this context. the question is how we can tackle this problem most effectively, and this is about tackling the factors that allow people smugglers to do this business model. finally, we must also remember to screen the oldest of the children, because we see in denmark at least a lot of cases where adults claim to be children and, among other things, enter the asylum facilities for children and abuse the smaller, unaccompanied refugee children. this is also a problem which must be addressed in this context.
the committee on international trade has adopted a report on the situation in the community. mr president, a mechanism for the exchange of information is the first step towards the eu's energy union. it is good for the further work on the energy union that we now have the opportunity to have an early check on the oil and gas contracts concluded with countries outside the eu. we are now increasing transparency and have the opportunity to intervene before contracts are concluded. you wouldn't think that early check-in was a necessity, but unfortunately it is. it turns out that up to a third of the contracts that were concluded in the past were not in line with the decisions we want to take in the context of the energy union and the eu's internal market. i hope and believe that this will change for the good of all europeans.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen, you have all said today that mercury is a dangerous substance. yes, it is, in fact, one of the most dangerous environmental poisons we have on the planet. it is a substance which, even in small quantities, can cause damage to both health and the environment, and one of the most serious damage that can be found is probably when foetuses suffer damage to the nervous system with the risk that the children, when they are born, will have both slower learning and slower development. we are talking about serious consequences for human health. and we also know that mercury accumulates in the food chain, and it's very, very serious for our environment. it is therefore very good that the minamata convention can be approved with the agreement now in place and that we can tighten up the rules that exist in the eu. that is why i support the proposal on the table. personally, i would have liked to see us go further, for example, by introducing a real ban on the use of mercury in dental care, but there was no support for this. i support the proposal and the agreement, because it allows the member states to go beyond what is contained in the agreement. we are therefore talking about minimum rules and i think it is important that we in parliament put pressure on the member states to use the opportunity of the agreement to go beyond what is in the agreement. but i support the motion as it stands.
mr president, thank you for this very urgent and important debate on our recommendations and on the reform of the code of conduct group for business taxation. i think this is a very timely and urgent matter. i think when we built the single market in europe, we failed fundamentally to ensure that we have a fair tax regime, and the code of conduct group of business taxation lacks transparency and its principles on unanimity are destroying fair competition. what we have seen in europe over the years – as you will see if you study the documents of the code of conduct group – is that we allow schemes, harmful tax regimes that are stealing revenues from each other, from member states, revenues that should go to welfare, revenues that will protect our welfare states. so we need urgently to reform the code of conduct group for business taxation; we need transparency; we need to get rid of this principle of unanimity and secrecy. so i hope the council will do something about it, and i see the parliament and commission, we have to stand together in reforming the code of conduct group to bring tax justice to europe. then i also want to say, as the rapporteur of the taxe 2 committee, it is important that we look at the instruments of tax evasion and tax dodging in europe. we see that intermediaries – banks, law firms, tax advisers, wealth managers and so on, lawyers of all kinds – they are helping rich people and companies to evade taxes. this is a scandal. we should be much more tough on them. we should revoke their business licences if they repeatedly engage in illegal tax evasion, helping tax evasion – this is really dangerous. and then finally, i think if we want to build real trust in europe (and we should), we need once and for all to have a fair tax system. we need to see the commission and council acting on the many recommendations that this parliament has put forward and adopted. we need to see action now; we have seen some action but we need much more, and we need also the council to listen to us and act, not only sit back and relax.
mr president, i would like to thank the council, the commission and others here who have mentioned the importance of celebrating the 60 years of the treaty of rome and the fact that we have had peace in europe for a long time now. i do not think we should take that for granted. it is very important to understand and value freedom, democracy, human rights and our way of cooperating in europe, where the rule of law is based on our cooperation with big and small states. but we also have to understand that many citizens, not only in europe but also in the western world, now feel under pressure. we see it in the us where they elected trump and we see it in europe where our societies are challenged. we need to understand the root causes of this. the root cause is that the social contract in many of our societies is endangered. it is endangered by rising inequality, job insecurity and the fact that many of the ordinary people in the labour market are under pressure and there is a race to the bottom on working conditions. so we need a social europe. we need to attack the root causes of the uncertainty we have in our societies. if we want to save europe and our democracies, we need to understand that. i think that we also need to cooperate to stop the race to the bottom on tax evasion and tax dodging by big multinational corporations: rich people, panama papers, luxleaks, swiss leaks. we have all of these examples. we need to fight for our values, we need to fight to protect our welfare state, and we need europe to master globalisation in the name of the people now, and we need that message too.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is now one year since the terrible attacks in brussels, but they were not unique. unfortunately, in the last year we have seen a whole series of attacks, both here in europe and elsewhere, by radicalized muslims who have attacked the values on which our society - free society - is based. and that is why it is also regrettable that the eu and especially the european parliament have been an obstacle rather than a facilitator in getting effective cooperation on various counter-terrorism measures off the ground. it was a shame that it took so long to get the pnr proposal through this parliament, through the libe committee. it is not enough that there has been no control of the external borders since the creation of schengen and until today, and therefore it is also regrettable that the commission and parliament have rejected denmark's offer to participate in both the pnr register and eurojust cooperation. if we are serious about counter-terrorism, we must always say yes when people come to us voluntarily and ask to join us, not say no thanks!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the debate on a common foreign and defence policy for the eu could hardly be more misplaced. we are seeing an american administration demanding that its european allies in nato live up to their treaty obligations. what was juncker's response to that? juncker's reply was that it should be taken seriously. so you had to break the treaty obligations of nato because they came from an american administration you didn't like. at the same time, we are talking about duplicating the defence capability here in the european union. i simply do not know where it would take us to a better place when there is no willingness in the member states to invest just up to 2% of gross national product in our common defence. the core of europe's security is nato, both for the vast majority of member states that are members of nato and for the remaining ones. let us therefore focus on the transatlantic partnership and put the idea of a european defence union to the side.
for the ecr group. i would like to speak briefly about the three controversial points concerning oil and gas. the very idea of this report is to strengthen european foreign policy in the arctic, but when eu politicians want to tell the arctic states how to manage their own natural resources, they completely undermine that idea. the eu should not decide on the oil and gas of non-eu countries! that's it! we are talking so much about energy security as members of parliament. we will not be dependent on oil and gas from the middle east and from russia, we say. what does it look like to tell our main supplier, norway, to cease its activities? not all of the arctic is frozen solid. the arctic circle extends far south, out of the icy waters. it is not very thoughtful to talk about such prohibitions. do you think it will be easier to get support for the eu becoming a member of the arctic council with such statements? the fact that the proposal was put forward in part by the five star movement and the finnish left alliance is one thing, but the fact that the social democrats have supported this line is completely incomprehensible and foolish.
i have to say, madam president, in the old days, they used to send a canary down with the workers to the mines. it was to warn them if the bird was running out of oxygen. the canary was sensitive and could sense the loss of oxygen before the coal miners. the canary was simply essential to survival. the arctic is the canary of the earth! the arctic shows us the true state of the planet. the arctic shows us that climate change is here, and that it's violent. the arctic ice is melting at a rate and extent greater than any expert had predicted. so right now, the arctic is alerting the world that we need to take climate change very seriously. and that is what we are doing in this report. it is also important to remember that climate change is not caused by the arctic or by the arctic countries. but the air, water and people of the region will have to live with the consequences of climate change. the european parliament has drawn up this report because we want to send a message to the arctic region that it is important to us, both from the point of view of security policy and from the point of view of the environment and climate, and that it is important for the planet in general. the eu should offer the arctic countries a dialogue and close cooperation to combat and mitigate climate change and help protect the amazing nature that exists. their challenges are our collective responsibility. air pollution in the arctic comes mainly from asia, north america and europe, and water pollution is created by transport from continent to continent. so it is our responsibility to help ensure that we reduce this pollution. our report contains a number of proposals on how we can protect the environment and the climate. it is important that we help, but it is also important that we do so in a way that we engage in dialogue with the countries around the arctic so that together, in a worthy cooperation, we can do something about climate change and environmental pollution.
the commission. mr president, today's debate on the situation in the philippines is two-fold: on the one hand, there is no doubt that every country has the right to defend itself against crime and drug trafficking. on the other hand, there is no doubt that we in the european union expect a democracy like the philippines to fight crime in a proportionate way that respects international legal guarantees. it is therefore worrying that on the one hand we see the philippine police using what appear to be very excessive means of force in the fight against drug crime. in this connection, it is important that there be full democratic scrutiny of whether the means of force are going too far, just as the arrest and trial of senator lima is going too far, and we should do everything we can to guarantee that the trial is fair and that the senator has all the legal guarantees intact when the trial comes to court.
mr president, i would like to thank you. why is there any need to investigate this whole diesel scandal? yes, primarily because the manipulation and deception of the car manufacturers have had some very serious environmental and health consequences for the citizens. we know that thousands of citizens have died prematurely because of the illegal nox emissions. when something goes wrong like this, and it's not stopped by the authorities, we have to find out why. the conclusion of emis is quite clear: there are errors, failures and a lack of will to act at all levels. the member states have not carried out sufficient checks, either at the time of type-approval or subsequently on the road. the european commission has not acted on the knowledge it had either. it has not looked into it and it has not pressured the member states to do more. the result is a serious failure. but now we have a chance to repair and repair the damage to the system. we have when we vote on the dalton report today, and i hope we get an agency and consumer compensation with the top hat on.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, the diesel emissions cheating of the tram is a scandal. unfortunately, it has turned out that it was not only the folkevogn who did not care about our european rules. much of the automotive industry has put economic considerations ahead of environmental and health concerns. it is therefore essential for us social democrats to secure new and stricter eu legislation which can prevent similar scandals in the future. greater independence is needed in the type-approval process. those who check that cars are compliant must not depend on money from the car industry. the member states must also be given far greater responsibility for ensuring better type approval and control of cars when they are on the road. the european commission must also be given more powers so that it is obliged to intervene and not sit idly by if it is suspected of fraud and fraud. all this is included in and guaranteed by the dalton report. all levels are committed to making the work better, faster, more comprehensive and independent of the automotive industry. but we social democrats want to go one step further. we want the control of cars to be concentrated in one european agency. we know from experience in other areas that member states often lack the money, the manpower or the political will to control cars adequately. we therefore propose the creation of an eu agency to collect and ensure that checks on cars take place. it is both the cheapest and the best way to ensure uniform and effective enforcement. we social democrats also want consumers to be compensated when damage occurs. in the united states, volkswagen's diesel cars have already been removed from the road, the defects have been corrected and consumers have been compensated. in the eu, consumers are still left without any compensation. we want this to change and we believe that the additional penalty of having to pay compensation to the companies can have a preventive effect. on the whole, however, we social democrats are very pleased with the result and we hope that this report will help to ensure that a new diesel scandal is avoided in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i can't believe we did it. after so many hours, days, years, it is truly impressive that we have now reached a result with which almost all of us are very satisfied. i would like to thank mr willmott and mr liese and also mr roth-behrendt for their work. i do not want to repeat all the excellent technical things presented here, it would be too boring! but i would stress that it is also a huge advantage for industry that we now have proper traceability, proper control, transparency and liability. if this really works throughout europe, it will mean that in future we can really say: 'we will be the best in the world market!' instead of the reactionary forces which have said up to now: 'oh, we must not have anything at all, because we must be allowed to cheat and deceive.' i am one of those who have had both knees and hips replaced, and i am actually quite grateful that not only is it possible to do it, but it is safe to do it, so i can move about with a certain amount of freedom. finally, i would like to emphasize the point that mr liese made, namely, that of counselling. some of these things are actually a little more dramatic to humans than we've been able to get a sense of here. getting a genetic test is actually not nothing. you can risk people starting to amputate breasts and arms and legs and almost not having children out of sheer fear of what might happen. it is important to stress here that there must be counselling and it would be very helpful if the member states insisted that such counselling was compulsory.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i too would like to congratulate mrs willmott and mr liese on a very, very good job. but above all, a big congratulations to the european patients. because with the proposal we are voting on tomorrow, it will be much safer to be a patient in europe if you need to have new hips or a new pacemaker or a lower back or whatever you might need. let me also say that it was about time! we have been struggling with this for many, many years, ever since the scandals came out of the closet about five or six years ago. i am particularly pleased that we are getting much stricter requirements for equipment before it can be placed on the market and much more control of equipment after it has been placed on the market. that's exactly what we need! i would also have liked to see a european central authorization system, but unfortunately we did not achieve that. in any case, a big round of applause for the european patients. it's safer to be a patient now.
i have to say, madam president, when one reads the proposal for a common european policy on refugees and asylum which is on the table here today, the most positive thing i can say is that i am glad that denmark has an exception in this area. the consequence of the proposals contained in this report is that an already uncontrollable flow of immigration and immigration to europe will only become even greater, even more unmanageable. it's almost incomprehensible how anyone can think that embassy asylum, the right to seek asylum, to come to europe and seek asylum in the surrounding areas will in any way remedy the situation we already have today, with more than one million people coming here in both 2015 and 2016. add to that the burden of allowing people to seek asylum in the surrounding areas, when you consider that we in europe cannot even deal with the people coming illegally and illegally today. it is simply so far removed from the reality of the european nation states that it can only be the brainchild of the european parliament. this is precisely why the common asylum policy for europe will never work. we're too unrealistic, too far from reality in this house.
i have to say, madam president, brexit is not the disease, it's the symptom. the disease is the mentality that thrives in some parts of the european union, but particularly here in the european parliament, which is to want this project to develop into a federal superstate. if we learn from brexit by moving forward with a common army, with joint initiatives in a number of areas, indeed with mr verhofstadt's whole grand project of a new constitution for europe with a view to establishing such a superstate, then brexit will only be the starting point for a number of member states no longer being able to see themselves in european cooperation. it is therefore regrettable that the decision we are faced with today is about all the things we cannot do to britain, all the things britain should not be allowed to do. as the previous speaker said: 'a pedagogical exercise to discourage others from making the same mistake as the uk has made in leaving the eu.' that's a whole wrong lesson to take! the mistake is that if we punish britain now instead of looking at the opportunities we have together in the future, it will mean that more people are going in the same direction. we therefore need a good and sensible agreement with the united kingdom, which ensures common trade and common security.
madam president, brexit will be the most difficult, costly and unnecessary divorce in history. in the coming months and years, we can expect the eu 27 and the uk government to end up in any number of catfights, but let me be crystal clear: whatever the cost, whatever the hassle, whatever the differences of opinions, this parliament will serve the citizens of europe. period. we are their directly elected voice. we will be their strongest defender, their best advocate in this, and their ally. this goes for eu citizens and for uk citizens. we will not allow the brexiters’ broken promises, half-truths and even lies to harm the citizens of the uk and eu any more than they have already done. to the citizens of the 27 remaining member states, i say we will never allow a post—brexit uk to undermine your rights and conditions by competing in a race to the bottom. to the citizens of the uk, i say that we will continue to fight for your best interests, and we will keep a seat for you at our table.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. if anyone had imagined just a few years ago that we would be standing here in 2017 discussing hate speech, extreme populism and fake news, many would have shaken their heads and thought we were paranoid. nevertheless, it is a reality. the new technologies have not only made it easier to communicate, they have also created a violent fragmentation and they have helped to create echo chambers where we as citizens can take refuge and be confirmed in our worst prejudices and notions. even darker forces are abusing the new opportunities, and so we must of course be ready to defend the open, liberal society, representative democracy and the rule of law that are under pressure now. propaganda and misinformation are simply poisonous to western values, to the opportunities we have, to our way of life and thus also to our cohesion. we owe it to each other to take this threat seriously. in the liberal group we are very keen to take up this fight and to be at the forefront of the fight for our democracy. but as liberals, we also have a duty to raise the alarm. it is important not to fall into the trap of introducing new forms of censorship, of restricting the freedoms that define our society. the answer is no restraints, no truth ministries here, please! what we should do instead is to map the threats, their scale and the possible actions against them. i would suggest that resources be devoted to the creation of a knowledge centre for disinformation. here, at european level, media actors can be brought together and asked to come up with ideas for self-regulation and self-justice. one could also imagine a kind of certification of online content, again without the intervention of the authorities, but as an opportunity to stamp the quality that we all seek. finally, i also believe that a european ombudsman for freedom of expression should be reconsidered. we should also, of course, support, as has also been said by several speakers here, a stronger public service, investigative journalism and the training of young people in internet skills. four months have passed since the report came from parliament and not much has happened yet. i think we should take action and we liberals should of course take the lead.
mr. chairman, please. i should also like to thank our negotiators for the good result. when we vote tomorrow on a cap on wholesale prices, it will be the culmination of more than 10 years of work to ensure that consumers are not penalized for travelling around europe and using their mobile phones. it is a very great victory for consumers and for the work we have put in here in the european parliament. it is mainly us who have put enormous pressure on industry to ensure that it got here. however, it is also a good agreement for other reasons, because it actually means that by placing a ceiling on wholesale prices we are also doing something good for industry. it is no longer just consumers who can be sure that they will not be shocked by prices. the same applies to industry. i therefore think that it is a very balanced agreement. although i might say that 10 years is a long time. i hope that in the future we can move a little faster to ensure something that benefits both consumers and businesses.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i would like to begin by thanking the commission for its concern about social problems. and there are a lot of social problems! there is increasing poverty, increasing inequality, there is too high unemployment, yes, there is extremely high youth unemployment somewhere. but the problems have not just appeared out of nowhere. they have, on the contrary, been increased by the eu's austerity policy and the european semester. the many demands from there to cut welfare, to have a higher retirement age and a lower level of social security, yes, that has social consequences. it has made the crisis much worse for our socially vulnerable citizens. that is why i also find it deeply worrying that what has been presented here today is primarily fine words which have not been followed up by action. a clear break with austerity is needed. this means that budgetary constraints and the constant pursuit of increased labour supply must no longer take precedence. member states must be allowed to invest in prosperity and cohesion. if we leave things as they are, we risk telling the public that we are taking their concerns seriously, without actually doing anything.
i have to say, madam president, the reflection we are hearing here today from the commission and from colleagues in the european parliament on the wisdom of including turkey as a candidate country is unfortunately a little too late and far too little. it is very clear, when we look back at the developments erdogan has brought turkey into, that he has very strategically used the eu accession negotiations to weaken the channelistic traditions in turkey, especially the supreme court and the military influence that has kept turkey on a western course for almost a century. that is why it is also deeply worrying when we look ahead, both for the situation in turkey, where we see judges, lawyers, school teachers, universities, the media - all threatened by erdoğan's fundamentalist view of how to run a state, but also here in europe. the behaviour we saw of the turkish president and his government towards european countries such as the netherlands, belgium and denmark was deeply unacceptable to any nation which wants a friendly relationship with europe. in particular, the indirect threat to the dutch, where erdogan listed the number of turkish residents in the netherlands and the number of soldiers in the dutch army, was the closest we came to a brazen direct threat to european democracy. that is why this is not the time to reward turkey. it is time we showed turkey that its behaviour should have consequences, including on the trade front. i therefore hope that we will take this as an element not only to suspend the accession negotiations but also to let the fact that such behaviour has been shown towards friendly european allied nations have consequences.
for the ppe group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. trade policy and customs policy are two different things, but it is important that they both work and that they can work together. we live in a world where we have a lot of international trade, and therefore we depend on our customs authorities and that they also work the same way within the eu. customs authorities play a major role in the administration of the provisions of both multilateral and bilateral agreements. it is important that we have uniform enforcement of the rules across europe so that there is uniform and effective enforcement at european level. unfortunately, that's not how it looks today. this has to be corrected! it is not possible to speculate and cheat on the rules in order to send goods to ports where the rules are not properly enforced. nobody in europe benefits from the fact that rules are not enforced and that weights are cheated. on the other hand, we must also ensure that the rules which companies have are understandable and that they are as unbureaucratic as possible. it has been important for the epp group that we have a 'level playing field' around our ports, and it has also been important for us that we simplify the rules that companies have to work under.
madam chairman! today we are again debating the eu's proposal for the forced redistribution of migrants in europe, and for the first time let us be honest in this house and admit that it has been a great failure. we have not succeeded in redistributing a fraction of the very few votes that were initially cast through the council, and all we have achieved is a huge split in the european union. greece and italy are quite logically saying that they do not want to end up with all the migrants who cross illegally into europe. north-western europe is quite logically saying that we do not want to be the final destination for all the migrants who want to come to the richest and most generous countries if you are a migrant, and eastern and central europe is saying that they do not want to repeat the mistakes made in western europe. let us now find a real solution to the problem of migration. let us implement an australian push-back model, when we must nevertheless recognize that there is neither the will nor the realism to receive millions of migrants and refugees here on the continent.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to congratulate vice-president katainen and first vice-president timmermans. with this reflection paper, the commission is putting its finger squarely on perhaps the greatest challenge facing eu citizens: harnessing globalisation. former un secretary-general mr kofi annan captured the challenge before us when he said if globalisation is to succeed, it must succeed for poor and rich alike. it must deliver rights no less than riches. it must provide social justice and equality no less than economic prosperity and enhanced communication. globalisation has created enormous wealth. however, it has not been fairly shared. instead, it has been enjoyed by a privileged few. globalisation has spread industries, trade and services but it has also put established rights, standards, values, wages and even jobs under enormous pressure. when 45% of europeans feel threatened by globalisation, this is not a challenge. it is a problem. and let us be honest. unmanaged globalisation creates real problems for ordinary citizens. real wages for middle class europeans have stagnated or even decreased, and youth unemployment remains close to 20% in the euro area. while citizens bear the burden of austerity-only policies and reduced welfare, the world’s richest companies and individuals pay as little as 0.005% in tax, as was the case with apple in ireland. since 2015, the richest one per cent of the world’s population has owned more wealth than the remaining 99%. this is not harnessing globalisation. this is globalisation run amok. the latest eurobarometer shows that 74% of europeans want more eu action against tax fraud. let us take our cue from them. let us act now. therefore, i propose that the commission develop a public ‘harnessing globalisation’ scoreboard. let us make it crystal clear what the eu is doing to harness globalisation. when we adopt the eu blacklist on tax havens with strong sanctions, when real wages across europe stop rising, then we will see real change. so i hope you will establish this scoreboard and i think you should do it right now.
mr president, i would like to thank you. globalization has great advantages and great disadvantages. there is no doubt that many people have gained more freedom and more wealth from the great changes, but we must not be blind to the dark side of globalisation. we have groups of people who have really lost at crucial points: they have lost their jobs, they have lost the opportunity to provide for their families and, not least, they have lost their hope for a better future. that doesn't mean that globalization itself is a bad thing, but it does mean that we need to rein in it much better today than we have done in the past. in this context, it must be said that the eu's economic policy has helped to move the trend in the wrong direction. we must strengthen the trade unions, not break their right to negotiate, as we have done in greece. we must strengthen the social safety net and not undermine it, as the eu has called for in its recommendations in a large number of countries, and we must create new jobs by investing and not by cutting back as the financial pact demands. when citizens lose faith in a better future, we must take it very, very seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the situation in syria is deeply tragic and looks set to continue until a good basis for a future peace can be found. i therefore believe that the eu should immediately and urgently focus on the stability of its neighbours. there are two neighbouring countries which are particularly vulnerable and exposed, namely lebanon and jordan. both countries have taken in a very, very large proportion of those who have fled the situation in syria, and both countries are under enormous pressure to deal with the human disasters and the major logistical challenges that come with it. that is why our efforts right now should be very focused on ensuring that instability in the region does not spread further. and then, of course, we must hope that the negotiations under way will lead to a more stable and peaceful situation in syria itself. in this respect, i think it is important that we also look ahead when we talk about the situation in syria itself. there is a clear challenge in that right now we see all those who are fighting against the assad regime as potential allies. we have to remember that there are also large radicalized elements among people both in the assad regime, in isis, and also in some of the rebel groups that are fighting both the regime and the islamic state. that is why it is important that, as we look ahead to the possible peace that is to follow in syria, we fight radicalised elements on all fronts and do not stare blindly at one side or the other of the conflict.
i have to say, madam president, the christian-jewish cultural heritage of this region goes back thousands of years, and it is a culture that has dominated the middle east for longer than the cultures that currently constitute the majority. it is therefore a double disaster that the sectarian conflicts ravaging the regions, particularly iraq and syria, but also elsewhere, mean that christians and other minorities in the regions are coming under double pressure, namely both the general pressure that these wars and conflicts bring about and, in particular, the pressure that it is clear that minority groups are particularly vulnerable to religious persecution, to extermination, to other crimes against humanity. we therefore also have an obligation as the european union to ensure that people who come under this pressure are protected, and perhaps to take special account of christians in refugee camps and elsewhere when eu countries choose quota refugees. there is no doubt that this is a problem which must be taken seriously and which must be dealt with immediately if there is to be a christian cultural heritage in these countries.
madam president, i think it is very simple: i think the best trade agreement for the uk is actually membership of the eu itself, but they have excluded that option so we have to find a fair deal now for everybody. i also think it is very important that the eu is reflecting on the future of europe, and we must deliver better and take people’s concerns much more seriously. first, we need to end social dumping in europe and ensure decent salaries and workers’ rights throughout our union. secondly, we need to end tax dumping: we see multinational corporations and rich people evading taxes on a scale that is damaging our welfare state in europe. finally, we need to transit our economy, for our society to become sustainable, responding to the climate challenge, ensuring our environment and ensuring that we manage migration and our welfare state in a much better way. if we do that, we will have a stronger union and i hope that we will have a close relationship with the uk; we need a fair deal with them. i think they are punishing themselves by saying no to being a part of europe.
madam president, just yesterday we debated how the eu can successfully harness globalisation. the upcoming g7 summit will be a prime opportunity to put words into practice, to show european leadership and to stand firm on our values and principles, insisting that a rule—based international order remains one of the key priorities for us. indeed, the very reason why this is a g7 and not a g8 summit is that one key nation continues to disregard international rules and agreements, with the central theme of the g7 summit being how to rebuild trust. i believe that the eu should use the g7 summit to recommit to the biggest economies on the plan to achieving the sustainable development goals – all of them, comprehensively. rebuilt trust requires visible action from the eu on the problems facing member states and the people of europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission has acted directly against the resolution we adopted on norway in this parliament in 2013. it's with an arrogance like no other. the commission not only knew about the decision, which only makes matters worse, but it acted directly against a political majority in this parliament. this is a scandal. as you know, norway raised the customs duties massively on cheese, lamb, beef and certain flowers. this was done unilaterally without any prior negotiation with the eu, which has harmed farmers in germany, the netherlands, sweden and denmark. this was an act directly contrary to the spirit of article 19 of the eea agreement. it was a unilateral protectionist move on the part of norway. the commission has a mandate to negotiate on behalf of the eu, but it has not taken this responsibility seriously, but has simply accepted the violations and closed a new agreement with norway. the agreement entered into force without any consideration of our resolution in parliament. the customs problem is unresolved. the commission treats this parliament as a mere rubber stamp. margaret thatcher once called the european parliament a mickey mouse parliament. as guardian of the treaty, the commission has treated the european parliament like a mickey mouse parliament. the commission has shown itself to be totally indifferent to this parliament on this matter. if a danish minister had behaved like that in my country against the majority in parliament, he would have been sacked. if they were officials, they'd have been thrown out of office. i have never seen anything like this in 25 years of political life. there are people in the commission who are probably suited to something other than dealing with foreign trade matters. what will the commission do to prevent this from happening again? why has the commission ignored the wishes of this house? do you ever admit to making mistakes? i don't think so, when i hear the speechwriter.
mr president, i would like to thank you. like most of my colleagues here tonight, i would like to join the criticism of the european commission. of course it is fine that norway has to pay more to gain access to the eu's single market, but the price for this has been far, far too high. in fact, the european commission has now accepted that norway may well have its very high customs wall against european agricultural products. this is unacceptable. that means norway can keep out the finnish hydrangeas and the nordic cheese, meat and whatever else we've heard about here tonight. it is very damaging to trade and it is completely contrary to the spirit of the eea agreement. that is a big deal, commissioner. something has to be done about this. you have to put an end to norway's customs wall. it's illegal. it's not legal. you have to deliver because this is unacceptable, and on top of that you have also chosen to sit this out for several years. it wasn't 2013, it was already in 2012 that this happened. my appeal to you is crystal clear: take a moment and solve this problem. it is unacceptable that a close ally like norway can pull such tricks against the eu when it is a close ally and a major trading partner.
i have to say, madam president, we have adopted an important resolution in the european parliament today on somali refugees. there are 260,000 people in the dadaab camp in kenya. parliament noted that there is a european recognition of our responsibility to contribute to better conditions in the camp specifically and for somalis in general, because it is not an option for kenya to send people back to somalia because of the conditions in the country. the more outrageous it is that some of our own governments are actively deporting men, women and children, including children born in eu member states, to somalia. apparently, kenya is not allowed, we are! a country like ethiopia doesn't do it, we do it! it is untenable and therefore extremely important that we received a general reminder in paragraph 7, which states that, given the seriousness of the situation, any return to somalia should be entirely and always voluntary. it should be obvious that there will be no deportation to what is perhaps the most dangerous country in the world. i strongly urge human rights lawyers to use this decision in any cases they bring before the human rights court.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, thank you to the commission for the play. the current transport and mobility challenges could be close to catastrophic for the many people working in the transport sector. full liberalization and deregulation, which is a course towards worse working conditions, and the commission's proposal that we should have a so-called more flexible understanding of the working time of drivers, will only make things worse. in reality, we need to take care of the workers. we should all be appalled by the stories of drivers living in their cabs without proper breaks and without the opportunity to see their families. the only bright spot i can immediately see is that the commission is actually giving priority to the rules on secondment. and i want to thank you for that. but there is no doubt that when you look at the whole package, the aim is to increase mobility. that is fine in itself, but it must never, ever replace the creation of local jobs so that citizens can actually decide for themselves whether they want to go abroad or whether they want to stay with their families and work where they are.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the rise in anti-semitism outside europe that we are witnessing in recent years is a very serious matter that we should reflect on, including in my own country of denmark, where we have recently seen the terrorist attack that hit both freedom of expression activists but also the jewish synagogue and the bar mitzvah that took place there, which is a terrible example that anti-semitism in europe is not something that belongs only to the past. unlike in the past, today we see that the majority of the increase in anti-semitic attacks comes from minorities in some muslim environments where it is clear that they will not accept the jewish presence, neither in the countries from which they come, the culture they bring with them, nor in the countries to which they have fled or travelled in europe. that is why we must also address the problems where they are most numerous, and that is why we must take up this matter with those cultures which do not recognise the place of the jewish religion in europe.
i have to say, madam president, i do not speak for myself, but for the eleven jewish organizations in europe which have written to us today. you all received their letter, and i would like to quote it. they come from all over europe, and they are mainly from jewish voices for peace from the different countries, and let me quote: as jewish organizations, we strongly believe that a commitment to tackling anti-semitism and all forms of racism is essential. racism and anti-semitism are generally covered by specific legislation in each european country and should be dealt with resolutely under these statutes. endorsing the highly contentious and flawed ihra document will not aid our collective endeavour to combat anti-semitism. in our view, endorsement would significantly undermine defenses against anti-semitism by expanding the concept in a politically motivated way. you should think twice about how these organizations look into this. it's important that they address us like this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i congratulate the rapporteurs who have contributed to this result. the agreement on a new energy labelling scheme is an important step towards achieving our climate and energy goals going forward. we know that imports today account for more than 50% of our energy consumption in europe and that this has been increasing over the last ten years. if we are to get rid of this unpleasant situation, we must, among many other things, make our energy consumption both smarter and more energy efficient. here we have a place where consumers can play an active role and take part in the green transition if we empower them to make informed choices about home appliances and household appliances. the agreement on the new energy labelling scheme is therefore a good step along the way and is, moreover, one of the low-hanging fruit on our entire agenda. the next step is to ensure that, by revising the building directive, our homes and our workplaces are in line with the efforts to achieve greater energy efficiency, to achieve a more energy-efficient europe. there is no doubt that this is one of the areas where we can really make a contribution, so that we can also look after our industry in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i also want to thank everyone, and this is of course a good day for us to discuss what has really happened, why we did not include climate certification in the agreement, so that we can show who has really done something and give credit to those people. we know that there are some countries that pay high taxes, high taxes and of course do a lot in this area. but we must also say that there must be this burden sharing between rich and poor. we need to have the flexibility, we need to recognize that we have some technology that needs to be transferred to some of the countries that could be better contributors to the fact that we can do more for the climate. so we intend to extend the opportunity to show that we have some tried and tested technology that will help the climate in the future, and we think that is the way to go, and that is why it is good that in this way we can create a burden sharing that can benefit everyone, but also takes account of everyone.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for that! the united states and trump will unfortunately not be in compliance with the paris climate agreement, but we will be in europe! the climate and the people of the world desperately need us to act on the climate change we're seeing. in the eu we can and must deliver on our promises and we must be ambitious. even when it gets tough, even when we have to share the burden. the committee on the environment has dared to be ambitious. i fully support the report by the committee on the environment. we are ambitious and balanced. it is particularly good that we are calling for an early start to the effort as early as 2018. the sooner we get started, the better. flexibility is the most discussed. flexibility for individual member states is in principle a good thing, but it must not become so flexible that we do not get to make any new climate agreements at all. everyone has to deliver, all sectors have to be involved, or we're not going to solve our climate challenges.
i have to say, madam president, as one of very few countries, we in denmark actually held a referendum on the euro. at that time we were told repeatedly that it was all about economics, about interest, about exchange rates. it has since become clear that a monetary union with such different countries cannot be achieved without also establishing a genuine political and economic union. and this is also the development we have seen since the financial crisis. the construction of a political union in which the eu tightly controls the economies of the member states and in which thousands of citizens live with the consequences of cuts and the deterioration of welfare. it could have been hoped that the commission would have made a small break with the austerity regime with this vision paper. but instead, we are talking about more european integration, stronger control of national economies and even stronger european institutions with a euro-finance minister! but, dear friends, it may be tempting to try to solve the world's problems with more europe, but the citizens who are living with the consequences today are not being heard in this game - on the contrary.
mr president, i would like to thank you. yes, here we are again with the glyphosate case, the case that will not die! the commission says there is nothing to look for. science has spoken, and all is safe. but you also say that it is important that the member states make a great effort to limit the use of glyphosate in parks and private gardens, etc. you wouldn't do that if you didn't think there were concerns and problems with this drug. what i think we need is a clear plan from the commission. we need you to come up with a plan for how we're going to phase out glyphosate. we need you to draw up a plan for how we will ensure transparency and credibility in the authorities responsible for assessing drugs we use in the eu. and then we also need a clear plan and funding for how we can find alternative weed killers so that we can get rid of glyphosate and roundup. there's no need for us to use it. we'll have to find some new ones. it's dangerous to continue on this course. come on, come on with the plan!
madam president, we just had our 80th transatlantic legislators’ dialogue (tld) with our american counterparts in congress after trump announced his withdrawal from the paris agreement. i have to say with our american counterparts in congress, it was a difficult conversation with them, but it is needed and what trump did is actually disrespectful not only to his own people, but to people all over the world and for the 194 states that are there and committed to fighting climate change. i also have to say that this withdrawal is actually placing a lot of question marks over the us government; it has further implications for the us. can the us be trustworthy when it has to do negotiations and new global and international deal in the future? that is a question we have to ask ourselves. it is weakening our position to take collective action on a very important issue. but as others have said, there is a coalition: cities, states, people all over the world, including in the united states, that want change and they will continue despite trump’s decision. let us stand together and work together and we will succeed.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate prime minister muscat on his victory in the election, which was very impressive indeed. the panama papers have given rise to a number of scandals in eu countries. some are open-and-shut cases, while others are merely hearsay and conjecture. in a democratic society built on the rule of law there is only one response to such allegations: where there are allegations, there must be investigation and, where there is investigation, there must be a conclusion, a judgement and a ruling. in the specific case of malta, so far only two of these are present: the accusations and the formal investigation, which is well underway. this being the case, the plenary chamber of the european parliament is not the proper forum to deal with these accusations. i ask my honourable colleagues whether they really question the very foundation of democracy in malta, a member state that has recently achieved a 92% voter turnout and is a sound democracy. as a co-rapporteur of the pana committee, i am perhaps the keenest to get to the bottom of all cases linked to the panama papers and i will insist on having facts, not merely accusations. i refuse to be drawn in to questioning a fundamental societal pillar, the rule of law in malta, even before the ongoing formal investigation is completed. however, i do seriously question if the eu as a whole is capable of responding effectively to the revelations of the panama papers. vital eu anti—tax evasion measures continue to be held up in the council. if we are to make any positive difference at all in the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, we must channel all of our efforts into building european solutions. as such, i ask the members of this parliament who take the floor whether they are ready to reform the code of conduct group to ensure public scrutiny. can you help to bring your own governments to responsibility for the actions taken by this group? i think this is very important. we also need to do more at a european level. together with my former co—rapporteur, michael theurer, in the taxe 2 report, i ask for the union tax policy coherence and coordination centre to strengthen our fight against tax evasion and tax fraud in the eu. we also want to see a tax europol that can bridge the gap between national authorities in these highly complex international tax cases.
i have to say, madam president, the platform economy has enormous potential both in terms of consumers, in terms of the use of resources, which is good for the environment, and in terms of businesses. and in our report from danti we also highlight the many opportunities that the digital economy offers us. but we social democrats have also made sure that in the report we also address the pitfalls of the digital economy. the digital economy must not become an eldorado for companies that do not want to pay taxes. the platform economy must not become a hell for those companies which want to avoid protecting consumers and workers. fair labour standards, fair competition and taxation are things we have to regulate in the digital economy. we've done it in the analog, so we have to do it in the digital. so we call on the commission and the member states to have the courage to tackle this. regulation is the only way to ensure that the digital economy works for everyone.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. in our everyday lives, we rarely think about standards being everywhere, even though many of them are very important to us. imagine if the light bulb didn't fit the lamp, if the screw didn't fit the nut, and if the usb only fit a few pcs. the commission presented a standardisation package last year with a number of initiatives. all of this is necessary to ensure that the european standardisation system functions properly and efficiently, which is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. we social democrats attach great importance to the work of standardization and therefore fully support the whole of european standardization. i was the social democrat rapporteur on the standardisation legislation we drew up back in 2012. but we also have a few important messages for the effort. we social democrats believe that standardization cannot and must not replace legislation. legislation is still needed to set the framework for, for example, safe products, privacy and the involvement of non-commercial interests. we also see that there is a particular challenge to standards in the digital age. we need a flexible and sustainable and inclusive standardisation system, but it is also important that we involve, for example, citizens and consumers in the roll-out of standards for the digital single market. it is therefore important that there is a strategic approach to the whole standardisation process. we also believe, for example, that when it comes to privacy protection, it is important that we have standards for the whole design phase, so that we can put a high and important level of protection for consumers in the design phase, and in this respect standards are absolutely crucial. so we back that up. finally, i would like to thank marlene mizzi for a good report and add that standardization work is something we must ensure is working effectively for the sake of the internal market.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, thank you for what has been said. we are all in agreement on this, so i want to concentrate on one issue, and that is the treatment of hepatitis c. here we are with a truly grown-up scandal! the drug to treat hepatitis c is not very expensive to produce, but it is making a killing. for example, in denmark, treatment costs about dkk 450 000 for a single patient, i.e. about eur 60 000 for a patient. at the same time, we know that in the poor countries where some of these compulsory licences have been passed, the price is 99% lower! we came in february with an own-initiative report on access to medicines in which we demanded or urged or wished that the commission should do something about these dramatic pricing schemes which are destroying people and robbing our budgets, and that it should do this by ensuring that we have transparency about pricing. how much is research and development? how much is marketing? how much is lobbying in this context? it's a lot of medicine. how much of this is just about someone sitting with a patent and completely cynically not caring about people dying? how can we ensure that we get better cooperation between countries so that we can negotiate some decent prices on the spot? it is not just hepatitis c, but the situation is particularly dramatic for this product, which we know can cure people, and it is terrible that they are not getting it in time so that we can save their lives. we have to make sure of ourselves, too. i agree with what has been said.
i have to say, madam president, infectious diseases such as hiv, aids, tuberculosis and hepatitis c know no borders. prevention and treatment should therefore also be something we tackle together and across borders. the challenges are great, also in the eu. we have many infected. we have many who die from these diseases, and we have many who cannot be treated properly, not least because we have an antibiotic resistance problem, which is particularly a problem for people with tuberculosis. a common eu strategy is therefore needed to address these problems. i thank the commission for recognizing this and for taking up this strategy. we need better data collection from the member states so that we know what works. we need better exchange of experience and more coordination. we need better and more prevention. we need a massive response to antibiotic resistance, and then we need more money for this overall response. let's get to work, there's a lot of work to be done!
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work on this very important file on the disclosure of corporate income tax. i must say, as we debate this topic today, that i am a little bit surprised by some of my colleagues from the ppe and alde groups who have worked in taxe 1 and taxe 2 and pana and know how important disclosure is if you want to fight tax dodging by big multinational companies. i am surprised that they are safeguarding the narrow interests of big multinational corporations at the expense of small and medium—sized enterprises in europe. as the commissioner said, and stated several times, small and medium—sized enterprises have a tax burden 30% higher than multinational corporations. why would you protect multinational corporations and not protect the small and medium—sized enterprises? also, the citizens in europe demand disclosure, transparency. you cannot compromise on transparency. you can compromise on a lot of things, but transparency is fundamental. then we can discuss tax levels and so on. i think what we are seeing today, if the safeguard clause is adopted, is a big major loophole that will be created, and i do not understand why the epp and alde groups are supporting this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's work programme must address the real problems and concerns facing the citizens of europe in their daily lives. in 2018, the eu will put a common base on corporate taxation, stop and punish tax havens and international tax evasion, create new jobs and protect existing ones: in short, we must have a pact of solidarity in europe. from 2001 to 2016, the average corporate tax rate in the eu member states has fallen from 30% to 22%. it's a race to the bottom between the countries of europe, not to create growth, but to steal growth from each other. it's the night of the long knives! it is not a europe that works together, but a europe that cheats itself out of billions of tax dollars. this has to stop now! that is why we need a common corporate tax base and a common consolidated corporate tax base. but that's not all: for the companies that make the most money, tax fraud costs every citizen in the eu 15 000 kroner in lost wealth every year because of tax havens, tax evasion, aggressive tax planning. we must therefore have a common european blacklist of tax havens with harsh, automatic and cash sanctions both for tax havens and for the companies and wealthy private citizens who use them. finally, the eu's 2018 agenda should create new jobs and protect existing ones. we social democrats will never accept a common market in which workers are forced to undercut each other on poor working conditions and on wages that are not living standards. that is why we need a solidarity pact, and that is what we should be working on in 2018.
i have to say, madam president, the tragedy is that in the context of brexit, people are now again talking about european defence. i am glad that my own country, denmark, has a reservation on this matter. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to the question of the european defence agency, which is a very important institution in the european union. our position on this issue is quite clear: nato is the cornerstone of european defence. the united states is a prerequisite for a common european defence and i would be happy to welcome the security guarantees of the united kingdom and the united states, much more than i would welcome the security guarantees of france and germany in defence policy.
for the ecr group. mr president, cuba is a country in which we have no major strategic or commercial interest from the eu side, and therefore an agreement such as the one concluded should only be implemented on the premise that it brings significant benefits to the cuban people who have lived for decades under the communist dictatorship. the ecr group therefore considers it essential that the guarantees and agreements reached in the areas of improving human rights, individual and labour rights and, in particular, the situation of religious and political persecuted persons, be followed up by action by the commission. otherwise, it makes little sense to conclude cooperation agreements with communist dictatorships far from the eu, in which we have no immediate strategic interests.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to pay tribute to the commission and vice-president timmermans on the issue of harnessing globalisation and the very important reflection paper that the commission produced this year. how do we ensure fair globalisation? globalisation brings a lot of benefits to us but also a lot of challenges to our societies, and the g20 summit in hamburg is an opportunity for the eu to lead on how to create fairer globalisation in which everyone benefits. many important topics have been mentioned already by the speakers here on climate change, on sustainable development goals, on the migration crisis and so on, and it is important that we in the european union take the lead on all these issues. i also want to say that globalisation issues have troubled a lot of countries and citizens alike. let me be clear and honest: when it comes to globalisation, the free and unregulated market has, to some extent, failed us. it has worked extremely well for multinational corporations and already-wealthy individuals, but for far too many ordinary workers – like the steel workers in france and the uk or the slaughterhouse workers in denmark and germany, to take examples – globalisation has also brought unfair competition, negative wage pressure, job insecurity and, in many cases, unemployment. so at the same time as enormous wealth has been created, it has not yet been fairly shared: that is clear. why are the world’s eight richest people now wealthier? they are now wealthier than half of the world’s population. real wages for middle-income families have stagnated in many societies, including in various parts of europe, and in many eu countries real wages have actually shrunk. this is an outrage and we need to do something about it. this is a result of market liberalism run amok, and we need to change course. showing european leadership on harnessing globalisation means ensuring that european values, principles and standards shape globalisation, and not vice-versa. for the socialist and democrats, a key principle is global tax justice. it was also mentioned by the commission and i was glad to hear that. we are calling for global tax justice to be a top priority at the g20 summit too. we want the eu to take the lead on concrete new initiatives: we need a global asset register so that taxable assets can be traced and recovered; we need a global register of beneficial ownership so that tax fraud can be revealed; we also need to coordinate efforts to stop, punish and prevent tax havens – and this too was mentioned by the commission. i think it is important we take the lead in that fight. we also need to ensure that corporate income tax is fair. this is an opportunity for the eu. let us take the lead on all of these issues! we look forward to the g20 summit. and thank you, mr timmermans, for the great speech.
i have to say, madam president, today, looking back at the developments in turkey, it is absolutely clear that erdogan has very cleverly used the eu accession negotiations as a means of weakening the kemalist institutions in turkey which for almost a century succeeded in making turkey one of the most prosperous, free and democratic muslim countries in the world. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. mass arrests, killings, torture, murders, dismissals from the public administration have become commonplace in a country which is in a permanent state of emergency and which has just implemented a constitutional reform which is anything but democratic. that is why it is time now not just to freeze, but to conclude the accession negotiations with turkey. turkey has never been and will never be a country suitable for membership of the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we learned from the un's global goals 2015 that it pays to set high ambitions for world development. the goals showed us that when we set a direction together, we can also create a change that really makes a difference for many people. we must take this lesson into account in the new development goals. the un has set the course, now it's up to the rest of us to act! the eu can and must take a leading role in this process. we already have eu policies in many areas. we also have the money, and we have research environments, and we have even written sustainability into our treaty. it shouldn't be that hard to get something done. the world needs leadership. we social democrats believe that the eu should take the lead, show solidarity, coordinate and create sustainable development in everything we do, and then also measure it. in this way we are helping to make the world a better place for everyone, and we really need that!
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, thank you to all those who have helped to start this important debate. as you can see, there are many different views on this subject. i do not think we can fail to take the citizens' anger and their lack of understanding of our going back and forth very, very seriously. the eu's auditors estimate that it costs dkk 850 million each year. this results in an extra emission of more than 10 000 tonnes of co2! it is a completely insane waste of the people's money and a tremendous extra pollution from a parliament which claims that we take the environment seriously. it is therefore particularly important that we seize the opportunity now that there is actually a movement in the member states. now we must stand together as a parliament and press the council and the member states to put an end to this waste! and it better be today than tomorrow!
ladies and gentlemen, the location of parliament is not just an accounting matter, it is a political matter. the question is what the european union of tomorrow should be: an even more centralised union or the europe of subsidiarity? in the ecr group we have always argued for the single seat and against bureaucratic centralism. to decide today that this parliament will go to brussels is to accept centralism. does anyone here honestly believe that one day we will be talking about "brussels dc"? and not to mention the cost of the transfer plus the rebuilding of the spaak building... until the new course of europe is set, the question of the seat must remain open. putting the parliament 500 metres from the commission may seem more functional, keeping it in strasbourg, politically stronger and more meaningful at a time when europeans need to define themselves. as for the two london agencies, i propose that they be hosted in copenhagen perhaps, but not here. the single seat, yes, but the choice of the place, in the next parliament.
the committee on petitions has also adopted a number of amendments. i thank everyone here, the house, mr andersson and the commission. it is a matter of years of work, which hopefully will now be crowned with real success. i would like to use my short speaking time to warn you, however, of what could go wrong. copyright holders have been extremely active in lobbying, and my own government has certainly not done very well. on the contrary, it has been the first to ensure that rights holders are protected from the blind and visually impaired. i would therefore urge the commission to keep a close eye on what is happening, how the directive is being implemented and to ensure that the compensation schemes that exist will work without any problems for the blind. we must also ensure that the wording we have in the compromise, namely that minimal losses should not be compensated, will work in such a way that it really has to be documented and proven that there is more than minimal loss. this is very difficult for copyright holders. we have confidence in the commission and we will have confidence in the court of justice to ensure that this law is implemented in accordance with the spirit of marrakesh.
madam president, china is a great country, a great power and a great economy to which we in europe are opening ourselves up to each other. but it is important that we, as a major trading area in the eu, in connection with this opening up to china, also take care of the human rights situation in the country. despite the great economic and social opening ups, the situation of individual human rights in china is still far too low. it is therefore important that the european parliament continues to press for us to improve the human rights situation, both for chinese people living on the mainland, but also to ensure the security of taiwan so that china cannot push its democratic little brother into a further tense situation. it is therefore important that we are both pragmatic in our approach to china in the economic field and that we also always bear in mind that we must promote human rights when china now has an interest in trading with a large market such as the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in my world, we all have a shared responsibility to stand up against the violence and abuse that women face every day. we should be at the forefront of any measure that can prevent women from being beaten, raped and, in the worst case, killed in their own homes. that is why i naturally support the good and strong report before us today. i support the idea of strong and effective legislation to prevent violence, while at the same time providing the best possible protection for the victims and the thousands of children who live in the shadow of violence every day. in the eu, our unity is built on common values and trust. as members of a united europe, i believe that we must always reject violence, whatever its forms. whether it is the member states themselves who have to fight violence, it is important that we send a strong signal from here that violence is not right, no matter where you come from or what religion you profess.
mr. chairman, please. both the commissioner and the council of ministers say that the egg scandal shows that our food safety system in the eu is working. i think the egg scandal shows that our system doesn't work well enough. so we need to tighten up. 24 member states have been affected by this scandal. we must oblige our member states to inform each other immediately when something happens. but orientation is simply not enough. we also need to require member states to devote far more resources to checking our food. today, it is mainly the companies that control themselves. that's not good enough. the member states will therefore have to get back on their feet if this system is to work better in the future. i think we owe it to the consumers, who have a right to know that their food is safe. unfortunately, that is not the case today.
mr president, commissioner hahn, i would like to thank you for your report. in 1993, europe's leaders gathered in copenhagen. in the wake of the fall of the wall, a set of criteria for eu membership was adopted. it was the copenhagen criteria which established that our union is made up of stable institutions which guarantee democracy, the rule of law, human rights and, not least, respect for minorities. on the basis of these criteria, our european cooperation has grown from 12 to 15 countries in 1994, to 25 countries in 2004, 27 in 2007 and now 28 countries. but it is no secret that turkey has so far failed to meet these requirements. under president erdoğan's leadership, there is really only one way forward: backward on all these fronts. it's dropped off significantly. we must therefore make it clear to erdogan's turkey that it has no future in the eu. we must therefore take the consequences and stop the accession negotiations with the present turkish government. this is the strongest signal we can send to the democratic, secular and constructive forces in turkey, on whose side we are naturally.
mr. chairman, please. i must admit that i regret to say that i think it is arrogant, mr president of the commission, when you say that things are moving forward. because that's not what the public is experiencing. the citizens are experiencing poverty, they are experiencing deterioration in welfare, they are experiencing pressure on wages and working conditions, they are experiencing high unemployment, especially among young people. and then they see a european union that does not solve their problems, but makes them worse. the european union is not listening to them, nor is it interested in listening to them. but instead of dealing with the real problems, you sit there with the rest of the eu elite in your glass tower and say that we just need more eu, more power for the eu and more power for the commission. a finance minister who will steer the member states even more in the direction of the commission, and a president of all presidents who will ensure that we have one union with one president. i think it is arrogant towards the citizens and i think it is arrogant towards democracy. and i think, frankly, that you in the commission already have enough power.
mr. chairman, please. first of all, thank you for having this debate here today and for having the council present as we discuss this, because there is no doubt that it is the member states that are very much lacking in this area. it's been two years since the scandal was discovered in the united states. and we are still far from having solved the problem. first of all, we have to clean up, and that's not where we're going. there are lots and lots and lots of these polluting cars still driving on european roads, so it is unacceptable, it is going too slowly, and it is up to the member states to act here. it is also important that we create a system that will allow us to prevent something like this from happening in the future. we're looking at the legislation, but it's slow! we have not even had legislation presented to us that allows consumers to come together and sue the car industry if that is what is needed. so we have to be in the rotation, so that something can happen. the last area, in fact, was one of the things that jean-claude juncker mentioned in his speech today. there is no doubt that if we are to avoid similar scandals with our cars in the future, we will have to invest in getting clean cars in europe. we must invest in this development and we must have clean cars, and therefore we must also dare to discuss whether diesel technology has a future at all.
the commission is not mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. we are only one day away from making a very important decision here in this room. a decision which will have far-reaching consequences for 70 to 80 million of our fellow citizens here in europe. the fact is that 70 to 80 million people are disabled in one way or another and therefore cannot live their lives to the full because they have been made difficult by their disability, and we must of course help them to do so. it is time that we, with one voice, hopefully, gave the extra little bit of help that is needed to give these 70 to 80 million people a better life, and that is what we have the chance to do now. many countries have lacked common rules on accessibility of products and services. it is a struggle that has been going on for decades, and now the opportunity is there, now we have the chance, but it also requires that we stand together in this house. a divided parliament would be a gift to the council. a united parliament, a strong mandate, will be absolutely essential if we are to get through with just some of the excellent proposals that we are going to put forward in this report, which the council - and it is no secret - has been very sceptical of by many member states for one reason or another. that is why we need a strong mandate. the fight for better conditions for the disabled is a fight which is essentially a social political fight. it is a struggle for which the eu has no direct competence, and therefore it can be said that the commission's approach in this area is quite clever, since it is entering the field of the internal market and moving into the field of social policy via the internal market. this is a good way of moving forward, one might say, when one does not have the competence in the other area. it also means that i, as rapporteur, and those of us who have been dealing with this for some time now, have to make a difficult and delicate balancing act. there are two things to consider. the one consideration is obviously that of these many millions of disabled citizens, so that they have better opportunities and better accessibility. but on the other hand, we as a parliament must also make sure that we preserve the crown jewel, if i may say the 'internal market', intact, that we do not, with all these well-intentioned and excellent proposals, contribute to damaging an internal market which we are doing everything we can to make work better. so in other words, it is a balancing act, and i think that we have tried to maintain that balance, or at least i have tried to maintain it. the task is to find a balance so that companies are not burdened with unnecessary administration, so that we do not create yet more bureaucratic monsters, while at the same time ensuring that through framework legislation we ensure that companies are also encouraged to innovate, are encouraged to create better products which ultimately benefit these many disabled people. i think that the report with the amendments that accompany it has struck that balance. i think we have a good result and i very much hope that there will be a lot of support for it. i am aware - and i hope that all those involved will agree - that it has not been easy, it is not easy. it is a field of great interest and it is more than interest, it is also a lot of emotion, and i would like to stress on this occasion that i understand those feelings quite well. i think we all know someone who is affected by disability in one way or another and therefore has to live their life in a different way, so i fully understand that, we just have to strike a balance. i think that we have succeeded, as i said, and i would like to thank partly the groups who have contributed to the fact that we actually get a vote tomorrow, because that was actually also going to be a problem, because this report has become so long with all these amendments that we are starting to have a problem getting through tomorrow, but we finally succeeded. thanks for that. and of course, thank you to all the rapporteurs who have fought along the way, and who have also had fights with the undersigned. i think we have reached a good result. i also thank the imco secretariat with thierry, who fought well, and especially my tireless assistant anne. i hope for a good result tomorrow. thank you for that.
the commission is not i am grateful to the commissioner for the debate, which i agree with the commissioner, and it has been a substantial debate, which in many ways shows that there is a lot of commitment, a lot of feeling about this, about improving the conditions of these many millions of our fellow citizens. i would like to emphasize to those who may have had doubts about this - and i actually said this to begin with - that i think we all in this room share the ambition that something should be done in this area. the big question is how do we get there and what is the best method? i can hear that there are different views on this, but i would like to say to my colleagues who have been playing up the ideological battle cry here that we have actually come a long way, and that is not to say that we do not want improvements, as we are almost portrayed as being, those of us who want a realistic approach. so i would like to see us, at this late stage, to cut back a little bit on the ideological and get into the work clothes to actually get those results. i would like to say quite specifically to my distinguished colleague, olga, that you know as well as i do that you social democrats have received a number of concessions from us at the last minute, including built environments , which from our point of view now resemble the proposal you have put forward. you have come up with compromise proposals which go far into 'public procurement', we have added additions on 'functional limitations', so that it also covers a large number of your proposals. that's what you wanted to start with. i think it would be nice to have a little bit of recognition that we have actually kind of gone into this to get the broad compromise. i have received a lot of praise from disability organisations in the last few days, and i don't hear anything about that here either, because we've gone as far as we have. i should like to conclude by saying that i very much hope that the words i said at the beginning will be met with agreement, namely that we need a very, very strong mandate. we have a great opportunity right now. let us now take a realistically big step, it will be very difficult when we have to negotiate with the council. let us take a realistic step, and i hope that everyone will join the struggle that is now to come. thank you.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is very clear that nord stream 2 is directly against both the spirit and the objective of our energy union. it is clear for many reasons; the commissioner mentioned it himself. first of all, we will increase our dependence on the reliable supply of energy if the nord stream 2 is built. secondly, we will also increase our dependence on fossil fuel in europe if nord stream 2 is built, while at the same time we are trying to make a climate and energy union in which we decarbonise our energy system. thirdly, we will also expose ourselves to pressure from external partners, so it is also a security matter for europeans. russia will now have a direct or indirect means of pressuring member states in europe, and it is clear that we cannot let that happen. therefore, it is high time that the commission and council clearly say ‘no’ to nord stream 2, because it is going against our solidarity and our aims in europe.
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, nord stream 2 will have to pass through danish waters if it is to be built, and so far the pipeline has been treated as an environmental issue. but that pipeline is geopolitics at the very top: it's security policy, it's environmental policy, it's climate policy and much more. and just now, when we in the eu are creating the framework for our energy union, which we are all working on every day, the ambition is to ensure a floating internal energy market. but the idea of the energy union was born out of a desire to make europe independent of putin's gas and the sheikhs' oil. so right now we're doing sanctions on russia with one hand, and then we're going to do new big business with them with the other hand. we cannot do that, and that is why we are very critical of nord stream! europe must go in the opposite direction to the fossil fuel represented by putin's gas and nord stream 2. we are therefore glad that the commission is now intervening and that the council of ministers is intervening, which is badly needed to stop this project.
rapporteur. – mr president, in accordance with rule 59(4), i would like to send this report back to the committee in order to start interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this week, there was a visit from copenhagen to london. the danish minister for economic affairs and industry was accompanied by the governor of the danish national bank and 20 ceos from the largest danish financial institutions and pension funds. what were they doing in london? yes, they should be part of the fight to attract some of the 30,000 finance jobs that are currently leaving london for other parts of europe. from all over europe - germany, france, holland, sweden and everywhere else - the finance bosses are now in london to figure out how to attract all these people. it seems that in some parts of the uk they have found out that they are on the wrong track and are paying the price for the consequences of what is happening. in the year and a half since brexit, i have been struck by the predictability of the british side's move into the quagmire. i have yet to hear what the uk government will do about the 759 agreements with 168 non-eu countries to be renegotiated. how on earth did they imagine this would happen and when? what do you expect to happen? all of us who love britain and who are following closely can wonder why there is so much chaos and why we do not find out what to do soon. i hope that some realism will soon creep into these brexit negotiations, and i hope that the united kingdom will find out about it so that something realistic can be done and that the negotiations on the future can also be started, which are so very necessary if british business and british society are not to fall apart.
madam president, in florence, prime minister may gave the best remain speech never held. ms may touched on a range of extremely important issues – terrorism, climate change, the refugee and migrant crisis, global free trade, organised crime and territorial aggression – issues so challenging, so dangerous and so complex that we can only solve them together. to put it bluntly, one could paraphrase ms may’s speech like this: ‘you need now, more than ever, to work together – so i am leaving!’ ms may was very concrete on what she does not want. she does not want a norway model and she does not want a canada model, but what does the british government want? nobody knows! all we get from ms may is a desire, and i quote from the speech, for ‘a bold, new strategic, comprehensive framework that is unprecedented in breadth’. that sounds like something out of ‘yes, prime minister’. did sir humphrey write the florence speech, one could ask? how can we negotiate a workable brexit agreement if the uk government cannot state clearly what they want? please, prime minister may: wake up, speak up! you owe it to your citizens. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, today's debate gave a shocking impression of the lack of understanding of referendums as a democratic instrument that exists in this house. perhaps because throughout its history the eu in general has done everything possible to avoid referendums, often even considering them as a deliberate evil that would only prevent the project. but it has also put itself in opposition to the people of europe. it is this contradiction that has led to the situation in which the british no longer feel that they can be part of this union. the reason why the british are leaving the european union is not to be found in london, but in brussels, frankfurt, strasbourg and all the other european capitals, where for years a line has been drawn away from the european people, who rightly have a right to be heard and asked. we owe the british not ridicule and degradation but respect for holding referendums so that the people are asked.
i have to say, madam president, i come from a country where our head of state, her majesty the queen, is a woman, where the president of parliament, the folketing, the highest civilian position that can be attained, is a woman, my former party chairman pia kjærsgaard, where the absolute majority of the parties in the folketing have or have had female presidents, and where you can see in the whole political game that it is not quotas and regulations and political decisions that make women win, but their qualities, their abilities, their courage, their work. that's what we're trying to promote. not some special pussy-nose system where we make quotas based on special political provisions. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. it has not led to top positions in the business sector, but we can see that in denmark it has within the political field without quotas. that's why it's the way to go. the path of voluntariness and respect for the individual. not quotas, you know.
i have to say, madam president, what concerns me about this report is when it comes down to 'fake news' and 'hate speech regulation'. we are all against the spread of fake news. we are also all against hate speech. however, it is a tremendous power to put in the hands of a few to decide what is false and what is true, to decide what is hate and what is not hate. by creating that division where we criminalize one group but not the other group, we are going down the road to a totalitarian state where we will basically put a few people in charge of one of the most vital democratic rights, namely the right to speak. i do not believe in such a system of state or european censorship. i believe that citizens enlightened, intelligent and able to navigate the news can distinguish for themselves between the true and the false, the good and the bad.
mr president, i would like to thank you. egypt is, on the whole, a key ally of europe, not only a key ally in the region, but also a friendly and constructive power which normally works with us in europe for our common interests. this is true when it comes to countering terrorism, to our common security, to creating stability in a region that has a direct impact on our peace, security and stability here in europe. this is also true of the broader policy towards north africa and the middle east, as exemplified most recently by the egyptian efforts to get the palestinian autonomous regions to talk better and perhaps to form a common government again, which in the long run will be the only way to achieve a realistic peace agreement between israel and palestine. we don't know what it will bring yet, but we do know that without egypt and the arab allies, we're not going anywhere.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the un climate conference cop23 in bonn is important. climate change is one of the most important challenges facing humanity today. we must therefore use this conference to show that the eu is both ready and willing to take the lead globally. we must also say that action on climate change is not a hindrance to growth and development. on the contrary: a green transition is indeed the key to ensuring sustainable growth and new jobs as well as a cleaner future. we have shown some of the way in denmark. we have shown that a green transition is going to create more jobs, and we need to help spread that message, because otherwise i think we're going to have too much resistance to deliver. the paris agreement must be implemented. we need more action and we need action faster. this should be the eu's message in bonn. the planet and the people of the world need it.
mr president, i would like to thank you. hormone-disrupting drugs are a major health problem for us. we need to do something about it as legislators. that is why we in the european parliament have been wanting for years to have a basis for action against endocrine disruptors. so it is important to have some criteria. if we're going to do this, we're going to have to do it right. the commission's proposal is simply not good enough. one part is about what my colleagues have been talking about, the exception. it is not useful to start with our basic criteria and then introduce an exception. but there's more to it than that. it is also about the level of documentation that must be produced to find an endocrine disruptor at all. the level of documentation is so high that it is far, far above the criteria we have for, for example, assessing carcinogens. it just can't be done! it is not only us in this parliament, but also some member states who think this is a problem. that includes my own member state, denmark, which certainly does not want us to say yes to the proposal on the table now. i am angry that we are the ones to blame for the delay, when the blame lies with you in the commission for not acting. there is talk of this being a compromise. i do not think we can compromise the health of our citizens. we're gonna have to do this right from the start.
for the ecr group. mr president, i am not and will never be primarily concerned with improving relations with europe's criminals, both because this is a task for the member states and because we should be on the side of the victims. that said, it is extremely important that member states take their responsibilities. it would be better if all member states, for example, took back their own convicted citizens, as the rules require, quickly and without hesitation. it would be good if the european arrest warrant could work in a better and more satisfactory way, and we can only appeal to all member states, including those that have been in for a little less than ten years, to live up to the common commitments made to have a well-functioning, open and transparent labour market where we have confidence that we are cooperating against crime. that is the main task of european politicians, both in this house and in the various national parliaments.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i hope this report does not end up as a paper airplane in the commission! there is no doubt that it is the responsibility and also the competence of the member states to ensure that things are in order. i think it is worrying, because the commission is the guardian of the treaty, that there are countries in europe, members of the eu, which are decisively violating article 3 of the convention on human rights time after time. i would like to say that i come from a country, denmark, where we have this problem in our lives, because the european court of human rights in 2016 ruled on the space that a person deprived of liberty should have, and the supreme court of denmark has decided that four romanian citizens cannot be extradited to be detained in romania, as they cannot be guaranteed a space of 2-3 m2. the supreme court has therefore ruled that these persons cannot be extradited and that this would be contrary to article 3 of the convention on human rights. it is absolutely unheard of to have a european arrest warrant where you cannot extradite a man who is going home to serve four and a half years in romania because you cannot ensure that he has proper conditions! we have people convicted of human trafficking in denmark who cannot come to romania and get away. we have eu rules that say you have to take your own citizens to be fined if there is a six-month residual sentence. so here we are with cases where people are sentenced to longer prison sentences and where the country in which the crime was committed is hanging on it because there are eu countries that do not have the order of things, and this is, in my opinion, actually the commission's responsibility to point out as well. if a country can be a member of the eu, it can also ensure that the convention on human rights is respected. in fact, in this case romania has lost 89.9% of the cases before the echr. i think that is shameful and the commission should do something about it. (the speaker agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card answer. yes, i fully agree with that, and that is why i believe that it must be ensured that romanian nationals convicted of a crime in denmark can come home and serve their sentences at home. it is not always that they want to do so, because conditions in romanian prisons are as bad as they are at present.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank mrs bergeron for this very fine report. however, in the context of the debate, it is important for me to point out that in my view there is something missing in the report. the fact is that we do not share the responsibility for many of our fellow europeans who are imprisoned in countries outside the european community in conditions which, in my view, give rise to deep, deep concern. these are conditions that border on torture-like conditions. i have just this month had contact with an elderly danish prisoner named anker hansen, who is being held in appalling conditions in indonesia. having been denied access to the vital medicine he needs, he is now so crippled that he cannot walk. he's in danger of dying under these conditions unless something is done. no matter what a person has done, no one deserves to rot away in a prison far from home under squalid conditions, where cruel and degrading treatment is part of everyday life. the european parliament needs to intervene in relation to prisoners whose human rights are violated every day.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome in any case the fact that we are being asked to examine whether the programmes financed by the eu are also living up to their purpose. this is particularly true of the youth guarantee. all too often we see reports from the court of auditors criticising the various programmes being packed away and not implemented; they are not taken for a bribe and the criticisms are not followed up. it is not to the benefit of anyone, not of young people, who in this case need the means to go out into the world and learn about life and their education, but least of all of the taxpayers, who find that their money is not being used effectively for the purpose for which it is earmarked. this is completely unacceptable and we should therefore pay much more attention to the criticisms coming from the court of auditors in particular, but also from all the others who are working on these programmes and know how things really work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think that everyone warmly welcomes the fact that the drug trafficking and the abuse of young people, especially around the union, is being severely punished, and i would like to add my voice to the call for the list of drugs to be updated. it is extremely important that we, both as member states and as the union, do everything we can to protect ourselves against this drug. i cannot help but say that with the open borders and the general ban on border controls between countries, the drug traffickers have been given a huge handshake. we all know that the external border is not at all as secure as it should be. there's just not many people in this room who would say that. but it's a fact. and the fact that there is no national border control is therefore a boon to those who want to make a living by trafficking in drugs, arms or human smuggling, or whatever it may be, and it does not help that the lists are updated if the market is, moreover, completely accessible and there are gaps at the external border. we need to have that in mind when we talk about these things.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am often accused by my opponents, of whom there is certainly no one from the danish delegation present in this chamber, that i am never in favour of anything in the european union. i am therefore pleased to announce that i have indeed voted in favour of this report. it makes good sense in a single market to have common ec rules which say which goods can be traded and which goods cannot. in fact, i think that if the eu had just regulated the single market, i think the eu would have been a great success. i think i could almost have been persuaded to vote 'yes' back in 1972 when the danes voted on the matter, if i had been born then, because a european union as a single market - where you can trade together, where goods, capital and workers can move freely, while respecting the differences between the individual countries, but not meddling in foreign policy, foreign affairs, fiscal policy, border controls, etc. - would have been a great success. the european union in its present form has become its own worst enemy because it wants everything that is not europe but the nation states. if we had stuck to what this report is about, much would have been avoided.
madam president, the commission’s annual work programme is a key tool to addressing shared european challenges. sadly, i have to say tax fraud, tax evasion and money laundering remain an enormous shared problem in europe, costing eu member states what amounts to eur 2 000 on average per citizen in lost taxes every year. i therefore welcome the initiative on taxation of the digital sector, but i think we have to do much more. i have spent the last few years working as a co-rapporteur for the parliament’s inquiry committee into the panama papers. our investigations show how unregulated intermediaries in europe and in offshore tax havens help the super-rich hide their wealth in tax havens. we have to stop this shadowy industry of tax dodging, and also stop the corrupt global elite that are doing this. that is why we, the socialists and democrats, want to break new ground to put an effective end to tax fraud, money laundering and tax havens by introducing a common eu licence for wealth managers, tax advisers and other intermediaries, so that licences can be instantly revoked throughout the eu in the event of illegal actions. only a common system with eu licences will make sure that we can put an effective stop to the industry of tax fraud in europe. i hope that the commission supports this idea in the next year’s work programme.
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. i am not sure that this is the case. we support the approach of freezing the funds allocated to the european solidarity fund from erasmus+, which the commission has proposed, until the necessary legislative basis is provided. in addition, the committee considers it necessary to provide the eur 50 million foreseen for erasmus+ as early as 2018. in order to address the chronic underfunding of both the creative europe cultural subprogramme and the europe for citizens programme, i support the rapporteur's approach of boosting the funding for these programmes. i would also like to support more money being allocated to the budget line for multimedia measures to ensure a deficit of independent coverage of eu material of a sufficiently high quality. finally, i would like to reiterate my intention to incorporate the activities of the very successful preparatory activity a new narrative of europe into the erasmus programme as a youth programme.
i have to say, madam president, the challenges facing roma in europe are historic and profound, but they do not change the fact that the integration of roma in the various nation states is a national task in the first place. it does not change the fact that, although we have already spent a great deal of money on this problem, we have not come as far as we could have hoped. there should therefore be a reflection in this house on whether more money is really the best way forward when it comes to improving roma integration in the individual nation states. finally, the experience of my own country, denmark, where we have not historically had a roma population, is that there is an abuse of the eu's rules for migrant workers by a group of roma who come and have no real desire to work but use the system to set up camps in denmark. that is not the intention of the migrant workers. it is therefore not something that should be accepted by the european union.
i have to say, madam president, what we are trying to do today is to repair another european prestige project, namely schengen, which, like the euro when it was introduced, lacked the necessary legal framework to operate effectively. that is why we now, 17 years later, have to repair what we did then, because it has turned out that the schengen external border has not been effective or able to contain terrorism, mass migration and other things that one would expect border controls to be able to do. that's why we're on this last attempt. if we do not now fix the external borders, schengen will collapse, and then it is better to go back to a system of national borders and national border controls, especially when you look at the great reluctance in this house to take the necessary measures, such as an entry and exit system. it is therefore sobering to think that the external border will ever become an effective protection for the people of europe.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. trading in financial services, special loans, bonds, securities and other inventive ways of raising capital is a risky business. the gains and benefits can be enormous, but so can the losses and consequences. while in the years leading up to the financial crisis, the world was too busy deregulating the financial sector, today we are busy cleaning up the mess of the past. with these new regulations we are cleaning up some of the pockets of the financial wild west that still exist. it is not very popular in the executive corridors, but it is healthy for the economy and ultimately for the industry itself. the recipe is simple. you take a proper shot at transparency, new demands for information on the real owners, no more hidden behind-the-scenes. we also require documentation of where these companies are based. no more shell companies. we also demand information on the exact amount of money involved in these constructions. in addition, a whole host of regulations in the form of a ban on operating from tax havens and countries with artificially low taxes, a ban on operating from countries that do not cooperate on the exchange of tax information, and last but not least, stricter penalties for those who fail to comply with the common rules, both cash fines of up to one and a half million kroner, but also fines set on the basis of a percentage of the company's turnover and the income of wealthy individuals. this is very good and much needed news in the fight for better regulation of the financial markets.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is symptomatic of today's debate on how we as parliament and the commission should ensure compliance with eu law that we are avoiding all the key issues. the key problems are that there is a clear double standard in the eu as to which infringements the commission takes seriously and which infringements it does not like to take up. we can only look at the whole euro area and see how countries like france and germany have year after year after year violated the rules they have themselves implemented for the euro area, without the commission having brought a treaty case against them. as my colleague mentioned earlier, the dublin convention and germany's breach of it, in the midst of the biggest refugee crisis in europe's recent history, is also an example of failure. so let us put an end to the double standards. if the eu is to be a society based on equal rules for all, the commission must also take on the big countries, instead of going after the small fish in the small areas.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course it's not right! we must not accept that. i would like to ask you to consider that there are no easy solutions to this problem, although the debate might give you that impression, because it is largely governed by resentment and anger. the solution is therefore not to fix the tax rates here in the european union system. it is up to the individual member states to decide how best to safeguard the interests of their own citizens and how much taxation is required. but something must of course be done, and here it is good to have these tax havens blacklisted, to have a naming and shaming principle which exposes countries with morally bankrupt tax conditions. of course, this list must be used actively! it must be a decisive factor in whether a country, for example, receives aid from the eu. undermining the eu's member states must have consequences, including for the member states themselves. we must clear up this mess and we support the plans that are in place.
madam president, the paradise papers, the panama papers, luxleaks and so on are not just scandals: they are the melting ice cap of our economic system. they are the financial climate change that threatens to drown europe’s welfare states and fundamental fairness in our societies, and we must not and cannot allow this to go on in secret. the paradise papers have exposed a corrupt global elite of companies and individuals who, through tax havens, write their own tax laws, their own tax rates, as a result of a sick and greedy form of capitalism that has been allowed to run amok. it forces countries into a never-ending race to the bottom on tax rates and, sadly, we know that some member state governments contribute to this by stalling and diluting new anti—tax evasion initiatives. they do so because the council and the code of conduct group operates on the principle of unanimity and also confidentiality. this secrecy allows the global elite to deposit their fortunes in tax havens and leaves ordinary citizens to pay the bill. this must change. we urgently need reform of the council and its secretive way of working on this issue. the people of europe need to see transparency, and we in the s&d group also call for a full public investigation into this new scandal. we urge all other groups to join us in a special committee to look into the paradise papers and put the spotlight on what is going on.
mr president, i would like to thank you. digitalisation offers consumers many new opportunities. e-commerce is booming, and we've only just begun. but along with the increase in trade, we're also seeing a rise in problems for consumers who shop digitally. some are deliberately deceived, and others simply do not receive the protection to which they are entitled. that is what we have to deal with, and that is exactly what we are doing with the legislation we are voting on today. we are strengthening cooperation between the authorities in the eu's member states, and this is crucial to ensuring that consumer rights are enforced - strongly, well and swiftly. the law will strengthen the tools of the authorities to go after those who do not comply with our consumer protection, including better rules for sanctioning and imposing fines and the like. this is really, really important! the safer our consumers are, the more they will buy, and they are only safe if we have some proper consumer protection rules that are enforced. so i'm backing the result today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is not just a mistake for this house and the european union as an institution to believe that any problem that may exist on the continent is a problem for the european union to solve. it is a fundamental expression of a relationship of mistrust between the eu and its member states. the european union is not concerned with road safety. it is clearly something that must be dealt with at regional or national level, where, with all due respect to this house, we have politicians who are typically elected with far greater votes and thus far greater democratic mandates than most of the house. that is where democracy lies, and if the eu wanted to do something about itself, to take itself seriously, it did so first and foremost by taking the principle of subsidiarity/proximity seriously. but of course, that means that this house gets a lot less work done. if you only have to deal with the things that are truly transnational, then there are fewer things to mess with. in return, national parliaments will have more influence, and this will also make the eu more prosperous in terms of its population. isn't that worth taking?
mr president, i would like to thank you. on several occasions we have noted the sensitivity of the language in question. i remember how people partly laughed and shook their heads when commission president juncker suggested at the time that brexit would mean that we would no longer be allowed to speak english in this room or in the eu institutions. in this way, language touches us wherever we are, and i voted in favour of the strategy that future reports and statistics, etc., should also be available in regional languages and dialects. but precisely because it is such a sensitive area, it is essential that this sort of thing goes through the national responsible democratic authorities. the way in which regional languages are handled can have major political and emotional implications, and i fear, frankly, that the eu may well end up behaving like an elephant in a glass shop if we just let things slide. so it is extremely important that we have the national authorities involved if we want to promote local and regional languages. i think that is important in this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the field of labour, the way and the timing of eu legislation is extremely sensitive. in my country, denmark, we have seen how the eu has been torn apart by old traditions and well-functioning institutions, such as our collective agreements and other things, which have done more harm than good to the labour market. in this area, which is about mobility, which is about the freedom of movement of goods and therefore of workers by sea between countries, it is of course possible to have common rules, provided that these common rules respect the national rules which are in place. as far as i can see from this report, it has been fulfilled for once, unlike what we have seen with the secondment directive and the temporary staff directive. i therefore voted in favour of this report. i would like to stress that this is a yes, which is conditional, and that i will be watching closely at all times to see whether the commission goes further and exceeds its powers. if it does, it will lose our support.
i have to say, madam president, is it a concern that a journalist critical of the government is being murdered in cold blood in malta? i know! is it a concern that malta is a tax haven? i know! but is that reason enough to equate malta with countries in the eu that do not respect the rule of law? - i know. malta is not hungary, malta is not poland. malta is in dialogue with the rest of the eu. malta has come forward and asked for help. let us use that dialogue to help malta to solve the murder, to find out how to better protect journalists, to stop tax evasion and, in general, to help strengthen the rule of law, including transparency in malta. so please don't compare malta to hungary and poland. on the other hand, we could encourage poland and hungary to do what malta did, namely to reach out to the european commission for help.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, first of all, i too would like to thank the ombudsman ms o’reilly for her excellent work, and also our rapporteur in parliament and first vice—president timmermans for his very important remarks on transparency. let me just stick to that topic – transparency – because i think we live at a time when many citizens feel very alienated with regard to institutions, to politics, to governance. i think one of the most important issues here for regaining trust, including in our institutions and our democracy, is actually access to information – transparency, accountability – and therefore the work that the european ombudsman is doing in this field is so important. i am looking at the council side now and i have to say that the council and many of its working groups are keeping us in the dark. many of us have had concrete experiences of this, for example the code of conduct group for business taxation. they are supposed to phase out cross—border harmful corporate tax regimes in europe. they work in secrecy. they work in unanimity; we do not know which countries are blocking or deluding this very important work to ensure fair corporate taxes in europe. things like that are alienating citizens and also cause the european union to be blamed for not acting on very important societal issues. therefore i just want to say to the ombudsman: full support for your work on transparency and we need to stand together to push the council to open up and become democratically accountable to its citizens. we need to be much more blunt and they need to change their attitude, because if they do not do this, then mistrust of the european union will continue.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to the ombudsman for an excellent job. it is really good to hear the great support for what i believe is the key to the european union's combating the so-called democratic deficit, namely openness in the council. as it stands, the council can operate in complete secrecy and the national parliaments have no idea what their governments are doing. the national press can't keep up with it either. it is therefore still perceived as a distant and inaccessible institution, and this affects us all. so it was very encouraging to hear from both you, emily o'reilly, and from frans timmermans that this is now going to be the focus, and i hope we can keep the germans at bay a little bit. you're a little afraid of openness, i've noticed. this is absolutely crucial! imagine if we had had transparency about the paradise papers, so that you could hear which countries are actually holding the upper hand on tax evasion. then we could have built credibility on this. it would be a tremendous win for all of us. i think we must be very specific, so that we can see what a gain this will be in the national debates too. if the council's closure very quickly becomes a thing of the past - and i am very optimistic after hearing you today - then it will provide an unprecedented opportunity for real democratic participation in the codecision process. in conclusion, let me just mention two things very briefly: we need to have the statute changed so that the ombudsman has access to examine compliance with 1049 himself, and then we need to have the whole concept of good administration right into the legislation and not just as soft phrases. we must have transparency laid down by law, including in relation to conflicts of interest.
i have to say, madam president, when all the world's leaders met in paris nearly two years ago, they didn't just sign an agreement, they made history. with europe at the forefront, they decided to take responsibility for our future generations by taking climate issues seriously and by strengthening cooperation for the green transition. but it requires us to complete the european energy union, which will make us less dependent on gas from putin and oil from the sheiks of the middle east, and at the same time strengthen the fight against climate change. but we can see at the moment that there is a long way to go from promises to action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that cannot happen! the european union must take on even greater responsibility for leading the way in the green transition. this requires ambitious renewable energy and energy efficiency targets. this requires a turbocharger of investment in more energy-efficient buildings and cleaner transport. it also requires a genuine internal energy market that will save the climate and save europeans. this requires a european energy union, where we deliver green results to citizens and which are good for the climate. we must therefore continue to hold the green flag high in the european parliament. it is needed, perhaps more than ever, even though it may be headwinds. i thank the commissioner for his good work on this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's winter packages contain many good points. parliament is on the right track, but the council seems to be suffering from both bewilderment and a lack of will to achieve results. it was the heads of state or government who decided that we wanted an energy union, which i think is very, very sensible. if it had been up to the energy ministers to create this energy union, nothing would have happened. when the ministers are in paris and when they are in bonn, they say 'yes, yes, yes', and when they are now sitting down to negotiate with parliament to get a good deal, it is 'no, no, no'. i would like to say that i find it shameful that we are no longer on the same page with the council at this stage. in addition, when you read the minutes of the council meetings, you find that everything is a little upside down. i believe that europe has a golden opportunity in these years to create an energy union in which we become less dependent on energy from outside - gas from putin, oil from the middle east - while at the same time creating healthier and better housing, making cost-effective renovations, putting energy efficiency on the agenda. it also means that we can create a lot of jobs in europe. it's jobs where people in blue suits can get jobs, jobs that can't be outsourced anywhere else in this world. at the same time, through innovation and new solutions, we are making europe more competitive in the long run, and ultimately our energy-intensive companies will not have to pay such a high price for their ets allowances if we deliver, for example, in the housing sector. i am disappointed in the council at the moment that it is not more willing to produce results and i would like to ask the commissioner if he does not share the same view.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on sunday, the international day of persons with disabilities, i think we should take the opportunity to congratulate all those who are celebrating that day and also to emphasize that accessibility is now the issue. accessibility is the next big battle for disabled people across europe. we have a very good opportunity to do something about that now. i thank the commissioner for bringing the matter up in good time, and i thank mr stevens for making an important contribution to the debate with the report which is now before us. the next big step is, as i said, to get the accessibility directive, which is before us now and which we have negotiated through, which is an important, important step towards doing something very concrete for people with disabilities. i am absolutely convinced that with the strong support here in parliament for the report we have produced and also for the report that is coming today, we will be strong in the forthcoming negotiations. it is now up to the council, really, because i do not think that we in the commission and in parliament are very much in disagreement. it is now up to the council, to the member states, to deliver on this initiative. that is, of course, the great challenge that lies ahead of us, and i must certainly do my part as a negotiator to get as far as possible.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by thanking the co—rapporteurs, my co—rapporteur and the shadows for the work that we have done in the pana committee over the last one-and-a-half years. i would also like to be able to thank the council, but i have to say that it has been very difficult for us in the pana inquiry committee to have sincere cooperation with the council. one of the things we should do is reform the way in which we deal with corporate tax policies in our european union. the panama papers, as you all know, were at the time the largest leak – 11.5 million documents. it revealed that a corrupt global elite of politicians, celebrities and corporate leaders had been corrupted and that they do not only put themselves above tax laws, but also above the law as such. we looked into that world in the pana committee. we have seen that many heads of states and governments have used opaque structures to hide their assets, to avoid taxes, to do money laundering, and even to carry out criminal activities. this is really detrimental to the trust in our societies and to democracy. therefore, we need to act on behalf of the citizens to clean up the mess that we have seen in the panama papers. our conclusions are clear. we have seen that eu legislation has not been properly implemented by member states or enforced by the commission, for example the anti-money laundering directive or the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. we have seen that the commission lacks resources and enforcement in this area; we have seen that some member states grant golden visas to ultra-rich people and do not carry out the due diligence that they should. we have seen that sweetheart deals for big corporations multinationals like apple, nike, starbucks and ikea have been done by member states. we have become caught in a sick race to the bottom on taxation and on regulation, and also sometimes on lack of implementation of our own eu legislation. some of our eu member states work to dilute and to avoid taking real steps in this field. we have had a secret working group in the council – the code of conduct group (business taxation) – for more than 20 years and they have not proven that they can end these harmful cross-border corporate tax regimes. in our recommendations, we are clear that we need to see open doors and transparency, not only in the way we make corporate tax policies and anti-money laundering policies within the european union, but also when it comes to intermediaries, banks, lawyers, wealth managers, accountants, the whole industry that lives to put these schemes in place. we need a public eu register for beneficial ownership. we need a tax europol to have true law enforcement for the people who commit these crimes. we need also to see that tax advisers face real sanctions if they engage in illegal behaviour. we need to end secrecy, tax secrecy and tax havens, and we also need to see that whistle-blowers are protected much better in european union and also that we support investigative journalism that is doing the job that politicians should have done instead. what we see tomorrow is very important. we have in our recommendations 211 concrete recommendations to fight international tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering. tomorrow, we will see which political groups and which members of this parliament are ready not only to talk, but also to vote and to ensure that we have a progressive stand in this parliament. now it is time to act, and we want a minimum corporate tax rate in europe in order to end the endless race to the bottom on corporate taxes and regulation. we need a good and sound list of tax havens, not only in third countries outside europe, but also in our own family. we need to clean up our own mess within eu member states and ensure that they also fulfil the highest standards. we have four countries in the eu, and we need to take action to ensure that they also fulfil the highest standards in order to fight tax evasion and avoidance.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you so much to my colleagues for this very important and good debate. i also appreciate the strong support for the report and recommendations and i want to thank commissioner moscovici for the great work the commission is doing in this field and also – in his words – ‘to end the culture of secrecy’ and, i would say, obstruction in the field of taxation and avoidance and to create a culture of transparency and sincere corporation in this field between parliament and commission and hopefully also, in the future, with the council. the council needs to open up, it needs to be accountable to the citizens, to the public in europe and we need to discuss this in the open. when countries block progress, they need to be named and shamed. we need to have an open and sincere debate. that is what the citizens of europe deserve in such a serious matter as tax avoidance and taxation. i also would like to thank the epp group. i heard mr rosati saying that we had a very strong and good report. i want to urge all of my colleagues to keep it that way because tomorrow we are going to vote and, as some have noticed, there are a lot of split votes unfortunately, but i just appeal to parliament for us to have a strong and good report, as mr rosati said and others said. do not water down the strong recommendations we have. it is time now to stand up for the citizens of europe. i also urge the citizens and the media to look into each and every vote tomorrow and see who is on the side of citizens in this very important fight. we have to win that fight. this parliament must take a brave stand with this report. we are not going to end with this report. we also call, from the s&d group, for a special committee to be set up until the end of the term to investigate, to further follow up on all of these 211 recommendations, because there is a lot of work to do. we have made progress and will continue to make progress, but we can only do that if we have a strong vote tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. iran is a terrorist state. a state that terrorizes its own people, a state that terrorizes its neighbors, and a state that sponsors terrorism in europe and the rest of the world. that is why, when we discuss the iran agreement, we cannot ignore the fact that it has been used to a great extent to avoid talking about the many other problems that are spreading from iran. problems such as human rights violations, the financing of terrorist organisations and the whole regime around the revolutionary guards and the ayatollah are deeply problematic by all the standards we normally use in the eu to assess our counterparts. that is why we in the european parliament should tell the commission that the iran agreement cannot stand alone. pressure must also be brought to bear on all the other areas where iran continues to violate absolutely basic human rights and basic human conduct.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, thank you and thank you to mrs mogherini! we hope we can stick together on this. international law is the only common language we have in the world, and that is why donald trump's declaration on jerusalem is dramatic. according to a number of un resolutions, most recently 2334 from last year, there is no doubt: east jerusalem is occupied by israel, and the solution is two states with jerusalem as a shared capital. the american strategy is dangerous and destabilising for the region, and it must be clear to everyone that the united states cannot and will not be an honest mediator in the conflict. it is now up to the eu to take real diplomatic steps so that we can finally get a peace process under way. i would like to repeat what you said earlier, mrs mogherini: there is no acceptable alternative to the two-state solution! we have several legal means at our disposal which should be used. the eu is israel's most important trading partner. the association agreement should therefore be suspended for the time being. israel is clearly breaking its part. then there is the separation strategy differentiation - where all contact with the illegal settlements ends. this strategy is mentioned in un resolution 2334 by the council of ministers and also by parliament. and then i'll also remind you of the recognition. finally, it is high time to put an end to netanyahu's 'impunity' and demand that israel pay us back for its destruction of eu-funded relief facilities in the west bank, as dozens of members of the european parliament have demanded in european and israeli newspapers in recent days.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is fitting today to wish jews all over the world a happy hanukkah. and it is hanukkah and a host of other historical facts that bind the jews to jerusalem and the state of israel. the modern state of israel's struggle for survival against the aggression that has been shown by all the neighboring countries, and in spite of it, now makes the americans, after more than 10 years of progress, after 10 years of being democratically adopted in the american parliament, now finally move the embassy to jerusalem. it is regrettable that no member state has dared to acknowledge the same. it is regrettable to hear all the hypocrisy that is taking place in this chamber. it is the same chamber which, we believe, must recognize a palestinian state without any conditions whatsoever. and therefore, to the jewish people, there is only to be said: there are still some who stand with you, and jerusalem is unconditionally the rightful capital of the state of israel!
the commission. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the subject we are about to discuss has been treated in a completely absurd way in many media outlets in the european union. so let me start by making it clear: we are not going to ban the kebab in the eu. the commission has already proposed that the use of phosphates in frozen meat, such as kebab, be authorized. we therefore want to maintain the status quo as it stands today. if the commission is to update the eu list of authorised food additives, three criteria must be met: 1. the additive must not be harmful to human health; 2. there must be a technological necessity; and 3. it must not mislead consumers. none of these parts meet the commission's proposal, unfortunately! but the heart of our objection is primarily about health. scientific doubts have been raised about the health aspects of phosphates in meat. there is concern that phosphates increase the risk of, inter alia, the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases. this is also why efsa has decided to give high priority to the reassessment of phosphates and their health effects when added to food. that review will take place during 2018. we therefore believe in the environment committee that there is no reason to open up the possibility of adding phosphates to meat until we know the efsa's assessment. so when we say no to allowing phosphates in frozen meat, it is primarily for health reasons and because we want to wait a year while the efsa works. but that said, there is no technological necessity either, because there is actually a lot of good kebab on the european market today, which is completely free of phosphates. and if you want and absolutely want a binder in your kebab, there are both e-number-free and chemical-free binders on the market. so it's possible to do without phosphates. and then i want to address some of the things that have been raised in the media. in germany in particular there has been great concern over our vote in the committee on the environment and there have been stories of job losses and all sorts of things. i would like to point out that the current eu rules also apply in germany, so that germany is not currently allowed to add phosphates to frozen meat dishes under eu law. if it is happening in germany today, it is because the rules are not being followed. others have also pointed out that there are some types of meat that are allowed to have phosphates in them. that's right! for example, there are some traditional sausages where it is allowed. but we do not think there is any reason to allow a whole lot of new areas until we are sure that there is no health problem. this was also a matter that we in the environment committee raised with the european commission back in 2014 with our then chair of the environment committee, matthias groote. we raised the concern, and we still share that concern. so instead of shouting that the eu will ban the kebab, which is not true, the media and businesses and citizens should instead ask the commission why the commission wants to make our food worse and unhealthier, because that is what this story is about! we in the committee on the environment take our duty to protect the citizens of europe seriously, and that is why we appeal to the precautionary principle. we await the efsa assessment of the phosphates in 2018 before we consider that any changes need to be made. that is why we want the status quo, that is why we are making this objection.
rapporteur. – mr president, i just want to thank all of my colleagues in this parliament. we are now reaching a milestone in the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance with the adoption of these recommendations against these phenomena. i want to thank my co-rapporteur petr ježek and the rest of the committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion for one and a half years’ hard work on this issue. we have a chance now to see whether it is not only talk but also action in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering. we need to put an end to the race to the bottom on corporate taxation and regulation in europe. we need to put an end to the situation where the super rich, global corrupt elite are above the tax law and above the law as such. this is a chance in this parliament to show that we are on the side of the citizens, and i hope you will all vote for these recommendations and give a strong signal to europe and to the rest of the world. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it is becoming increasingly clear that for the eu, brexit is actually a welcome opportunity to focus on something other than all the institutional problems that the eu itself has: with the unattended border, with illegal immigration, with the euro not working and the resulting economic recession, especially in southern europe. all the problems that concerned europeans before brexit are now mainly concerned with the negotiations between the eu and the uk. but there is reason to remind the commission and everyone else in this house that brexit is soon to be a reality. britain will be fine. we are talking about one of the most centrally located and historically strongest countries in the history of the world. the big question is how the eu will cope when the tide lights and all the problems that are currently hidden by the negotiations but which are of concern to the citizens are still there. it will be the moment of truth for the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the if you become unemployed after the next election, you can come to denmark and work in rungsted for less than 22 kr. an hour. or picking vegetables in tåsinge for $25 an hour. the fact is that workers all over the eu are being pressured. their working conditions are worse now than they have been for many years. this is partly due to the eu's internal market, which allows employers to move their workforce around as they see fit. and if they fall off the wagon or get hurt, they should not expect much help, because the social cuts resulting from the fiscal pact and the european semester have taken away the safety net for the vast majority of people. that is why it also sounded hollow when the eu elites last month launched a social pillar to solve the problems. the european semester and the single market are enshrined in the eu's founding treaties and take precedence over everything else. and then "a pillar of society" becomes just a fancy word. and if there's one thing they can't use on the shelves and in the garden, it's fine words. if we want to put action behind words, we must break the treaties and put trade union and social rights first.
mr president, i would like to thank you. welfare tourism and social dumping have been some of the cornerstones we have seen after the eu started to intervene in the social policies of the countries. the fact that the money for the children of the poor is sent out of a country like denmark and is sent to the countries of central and eastern europe in particular is the consequence of the intervention that the european union has already made in the social systems of these countries. the social pillar will provide another springboard into the national welfare systems. i am sure that the court of justice of the european union will use the new charter to extend once again the interference which the eu is already unlawfully making in the economic and social policies of the countries, and there can only be a clear and resounding no to the eu moving even further into the machinery of the welfare states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
