mr president, welcome to the maltese presidency. the key elements of the presidency's priorities have already been underlined. first of all, migration, security, the social side, the social implications of all the policies of the european union, brexit, etc. there has been less emphasis on economic issues. we all know that only a healthy economy can deal effectively with each of these issues that i have just mentioned, and which are priorities of the maltese presidency. that is why we must insist on this aspect as well. it is essential that the european economy is able to compete globally, that it can grow, that it can create jobs and that it can generate economic resources so that states - governments - can develop these social policies. and in that context, there is something that is in the hands of this presidency, and that is to bring to a successful conclusion, for example, the dossiers, the legislation that has to do with the development of the digital single market. why would you do that? because the digital single market - the digital transformation - is the great accelerator for the european economy to have that capacity to compete globally and, therefore, that good health and to be able to guarantee, thus, the good development of all those priorities, starting with the social dimension. in matters such as connectivity and infrastructure, you have the opportunity in this presidency to reach a common position which will then lead to political agreement at a later stage. it is essential, and i am very, very, very insistent, on behalf of this parliament, that this should be possible.
in writing. between the "putin effect" and the "trump effect", we find ourselves in a complicated context. we europeans do not believe in national solutions but in cooperative solutions. european solidarity is fundamental to us and this must be reflected in an ambitious road map to be signed in rome on 25 march. for the union to be a social, economic and democratic powerhouse, we need that roadmap which reconnects us with our citizens. a road map which not only strengthens security and defence in europe as set out in the bratislava road map, but which is an agreement for a social europe, thus ensuring that the strategy for growth and employment is accompanied by increased investment. as regards migration, it is essential to address development problems with third countries. the maltese presidency must establish a genuine european asylum system and not the shame we are experiencing these days with the cold wave. we are waiting for a commission white paper which will, among other things, provide european migration policy with effective mechanisms with a tailor-made budget. only then will we be prepared for the future.
in writing. between the "putin effect" and the "trump effect", we find ourselves in a complicated context. we europeans do not believe in national solutions but in cooperative solutions. european solidarity is fundamental to us and this must be reflected in an ambitious road map to be signed in rome on 25 march. for the union to be a social, economic and democratic powerhouse, we need that roadmap which reconnects us with our citizens. a road map which not only strengthens security and defence in europe as set out in the bratislava road map, but which is an agreement for a social europe, thus ensuring that the strategy for growth and employment is accompanied by increased investment. as regards migration, it is essential to address development problems with third countries. the maltese presidency must establish a genuine european asylum system and not the shame we are experiencing these days with the cold wave. we are waiting for a commission white paper which will, among other things, provide european migration policy with effective mechanisms with a tailor-made budget. only then will we be prepared for the future.
madam president, after analysing the results of the last council meeting on 15 december and sharing the declarations of intent expressed there on the major issues on the european agenda - refugees or security - i would like to stress employment and reintegration and, in particular, the youth guarantee. we need to have a closer look at the way it works in each country. we have repeatedly pointed out that in spain - the country with the worst data - inexplicable centralisation is hampering the involvement of employers, the link between education and the productive system, the emergence of public-private partnerships, the application of the principle of intelligent specialisation or the use of previously existing good practices in active policies or vocational training. we are therefore pleased that the commission's critical report on the results in spain has already led to a change, on 24 december, in the conditions of access and to an improvement in regional and local participation, which we call for and which must continue to grow.
madam president, we are in the new year, but we are still carrying the same problems that we have been carrying for far too long. the situation of refugees - especially this winter, with the most intense cold wave in recent years - is a clear example of the failure, passivity and cruelty of this european union in responding to the world's greatest humanitarian crisis, as the council itself has acknowledged. and in this respect i must agree with mr tusk when, after leaving the council meeting, he acknowledged that we were not being effective in the syrian war. and it did. but this inefficiency is not a natural phenomenon, it depends on political will and it is possible to change it. on the other hand, we see how the increase in political disaffection is being channelled in many countries through irrational and xenophobic projects. we must defend a strong social model in europe as a sign of identity, which sets as its main objectives respect for human rights, freedoms and social welfare. this change in the european project must shape the project and the direction of the coming years in europe.
madam president, last year was a bad year, next year may be a good one, not because we will have fewer problems, but because we put more will into the solutions. the refugees and the crisis are still there. the mediterranean is still the place where hundreds of people die every day and now we have, in addition, also the cold and the snow. if we want to we can. it's not that the refugee crisis is going to disappear or will disappear this year. it's about this year being able to put enough will to solve it. the same is true of our security. this year we're gonna be a little bit more alone in the world. donald trump is starting to become a new vladimir putin and, with the problems we already have in turkey, in the middle east, in russia, if we now have them the same as in china, in the united states, europe is going to be more alone. our safety is going to depend on us alone. i want to say something about brexit too. i want to tell the british prime minister that britain cannot become the european panama; and that she should remember that the single market is unique, not only because it has no internal borders, but because it has external borders. the european union cannot accept a specific solution for scotland, gibraltar or any part of the united kingdom. brexit is brexit for the whole of the uk, and there are not going to be any specific or magic solutions for anyone. let's make 2017 a better year not because we have fewer problems but because we have more will to solve them.
mr president, i think there were two important things in the december agreement: firstly, a very pragmatic intelligence to solve the problem of the dutch referendum on the agreement with ukraine. i think it should be appreciated as very important. and also the advancement of ideas about security and defense. i would like to stress that we have not heard from the council for a long time about a social europe. there is a great deal of euroscepticism - you have said so, mr katainen - because the public is seeing its social and labour market framework devalued. and the socialist group, on whose behalf i am also speaking, is dissatisfied with the socioeconomic situation in europe. we want to hear from the council and the commission other news in favour of social protection, quality employment, what we would call youth employment: all that is required for a european policy with a soul, a social soul.
in writing. i am pleased that at the last meeting in december the concerns of our dutch colleagues were resolved with a very pragmatic spirit by the adoption of a declaration, which is compatible with the eu-ukraine association agreement and the union treaties and in line with the union's objective of deepening relations with ukraine. i am also pleased to see progress on the one hand in the ideas on security and defence and, in particular, the call for europeans to take greater responsibility for their own security in order to strengthen europe's security and defence and better protect its citizens. i also stress the need to provide sufficient resources for the european border and coast guard and the european asylum support office and the libyan coast guard. finally, i regret that we have not heard from the council for a long time about a social europe. there is a great deal of euroscepticism because citizens are seeing their social and labour market framework devalued. i therefore urge the council to propose ambitious measures to promote social protection, quality employment and youth employment.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, 14 years ago, when i was a member of the basque parliament, we passed a resolution calling on the spanish government to include the defence of the tobin tax in the spanish presidency's work programme for 2002. spain is now one of the states involved in an enhanced cooperation operation to introduce a financial transaction tax. we started here in 2011. in 2013, france and italy already started to apply their own tax. on 22 january 2013 it was agreed that ten countries would do so together in 2014. and the last ecofin of 2015 promised it for ten by mid-2016. i hope this time it's the right one. i say this because today's debate reminds us that we need to return to a world in which the financial system returns to its instrumental role and is simply devoted to mediating between saving and productive activities. i say this because we need that money to drive innovation, to drive growth, to consolidate the social pillar, to rescue people from the margins. a useful and didactic way of doing this is to move from words to deeds. just raising the debate is useful because it recognises that these operations must be taxed. the introduction of this tax should help to prevent and avoid some merely speculative operations which do not create jobs and only enrich those who practice them; activities which do not boost the economy. this tax will not harm users of banking services; it is intended to tax the buying and selling of financial assets on a medium and large scale, an operation which is not exactly an everyday occurrence for the vast majority of europeans. i believe that this approach, if it is established at community level, would also enable the commission to achieve a degree of economic and financial independence from the member states, which would make its task of promoting and coordinating policies which bring european added value much more effective. humanism, redistribution and solidarity are also european values, principles which are completely alien to greed and speculation.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the truth is that in our group this seems to us to be one of the most important projects that should be put forward. we are a little concerned that this very ambitious proposal, on which we have been working since 2011 and which parliament has asked for, is starting to be diluted like a small lump of sugar, in the sense that, well, we already have enhanced cooperation with only ten countries, and we are also concerned that there are things that are slowly being diluted. i mean, we have a smaller and smaller tax base. we are concerned that, for example, futures derivatives, interest rate derivatives, are being excluded. secondly, there is talk of extremely low rates, which would, if that were the case, obviously undermine the two objectives which i believe this tax has, namely to raise money (and the figure of 35 000 million which has already been mentioned would be very important) and also to curb some of the speculative activities. in this respect, i think that both the council and the commission should try to insist on two points: firstly, that this should finally come to fruition. we are also concerned about the timetable because we had negotiations on 5 december which were postponed, and we are already very late in implementing it, but also that the commission and the council insist, even if only in enhanced cooperation, that this tax really has the capacity to perform its function. we should not have a formal financial transaction tax, but one which is either too little or too weak to fulfil its function. i would urge you to do that. we would like to have a legislative text tabled next month, if possible at the ecofin meeting on 27 january; that would be very positive. and i would also like to remind you - and with this, i conclude - that the monti report on own resources which came out this week points to the financial transaction tax as one of the key measures for own resources, and it is probably one of the easiest to put on the table, so please do everything possible to get this through and please make sure that the backlogs are closed and that it is put into practice at once.
mr. president, many colleagues say this will cause the money to march. i would ask you: what happened when, over a hundred years ago, corporations had to pay a labor tax and created social security? the greatest social genius the world has ever invented. somebody started it. somebody started it. someone has to start with taxation to financial movements. someone has to start, and europe has to be. europe must be the one to start by setting out a path which is a wonderful sign to the world, which is a wonderful sign to the social justice that is expected by millions of europeans who are waiting for europe to give progressive signals and to allow a tax collection for the european union and for social redistribution. someone has to start and we can do it, because we can overcome the technical problems. you can, you can.
in writing. the spanish socialists have been advocating for many years the need to introduce a financial transaction tax which would penalize speculation and improve fiscal justice, and we have therefore been supporting the commission's original proposal and its approval through the enhanced cooperation procedure. the tax must also be european, so that it becomes an own resource of the union (with the necessary adjustments as long as there are non-participating member states) and the commission's financial and political autonomy is reinforced, making it a real executive power of the federal court. it is therefore disappointing that the council comes to parliament and says nothing, because it does not explain what elements keep the discussion open, nor when it is expected to be adopted. i therefore call on the council to adopt the broad-based and collectable financial transaction tax before the end of the maltese presidency.
in writing. the commission had promised that the tobin rate would be a reality by the end of 2015; after the difficulties in the negotiations, it seems that we should be satisfied with it remaining on the council's agenda in 2017. we cannot delay a decision any longer and we hope that the maltese presidency will finally respond to a historic demand of the social movements against financial speculation. we believe that the main potential of the tobin rate is to reduce financial volatility by taking a toll on the purely speculative activity of funds and financial markets. however, let us not forget that this type of activity, although harmful, is not the main cause of the current economic crisis, which has structural causes in the increase of inequalities, the fall in wages and the reduction of the role of the state in the economy as a result of the increasing financialization of its operation. that is why we deplore the fact that the tobin rate is being used by the commission to conceal its real commitment to deepening this path, through initiatives such as the banking union or the capital union, which we continue to reject.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the presidency shares parliament’s concern about the situation and the fate of the thousands of refugees and migrants currently facing severe weather conditions in european camps. according to the data supplied by the greek authorities, more than 15 000 migrants are currently present on the greek islands. the hotspots are overcrowded, and living conditions are very difficult due to the wintry conditions. furthermore, unhcr has reported that 7000 migrants are currently stranded in serbia. some of them are staying in overcrowded facilities or sleeping rough in the centre of belgrade. we cannot, of course, change the weather conditions, but we have at our disposal resources and instruments that can remedy the immediate negative consequences of these severe conditions. the commissioner will brief you on the possibilities of using the emergency funding in order to mitigate that situation, as well as on other forms of support already being provided to the most affected countries, or which are foreseen. nemmen li tinsabu konxji li l-awtoritajiet griegi bagħtu bastiment navali attrezzat lejn lesbos ħalli jgħinu lil dawk l-immigranti li qed iħabbtu wiċċhom mat-temp kiefer. il-presidenza qed issegwi mill-qrib is-sitwazzjoni u fl-istess ħin qiegħda f’kuntatt kontinwu mal-istati membri, il-kummissjoni ewropea, kif ukoll mal-aġenziji ewropej ikkonċernati. aħna determinati bis-sħiħ li nagħmlu dak kollu fil-poter tagħna sabiex intejbu l-kundizzjonijiet tar-rifuġjati, kif ukoll nimmitigaw u nsolvu s-sitwazzjoni. l-impenji li ttieħdu għall-provvediment tal-kapaċitajiet ta’ akkoljenzi addattati għax-xitwa għandhom jintlaħqu malajr kemm jista’ jkun. l-ebda pajjiż mhu kapaċi jaffronta din is-sitwazzjoni waħdu. madankollu, l-impenn m’għandux isir biss minn dawk il-pajjiżi li huma l-iżjed milquta, u iżda, anke l-pajjiżi l-oħra għandhom joffru l-għajnuna tagħhom. nistgħu nevitaw dawn is-sitwazzjonijiet milli jsiru rikorrenti billi nsaħħu l-kooperazzjoni u nimxu b’ħidma u azzjoni konġunta u kkoordinata, kemm fuq perjodu qasir ta’ żmien, kif ukoll anke billi nippjanaw għal perjodi itwal. waħda mill-prijoritajiet tagħna għal dan is-semestru hija li nimbuttaw għall-implimentazzjoni ta’ miżuri li diġà kien hemm qbil fuqhom, u li niżguraw li l-kwistjonijiet li baqa’ jibqgħu fuq nett tal-aġenda politika tagħna - u dan kien diġà rrimarkat dalgħodu proprju f’din il-plenarja mill-prim ministru joseph muscat, prim ministru ta’ malta, illi bħalissa qegħdin nippresiedu fuq il-kunsill tal-unjoni ewropea. iċ-ċittadini qegħdin jippretendu u jistennew illi nieħdu azzjoni. sinjuri, ir-rilokazzjoni tista’ tgħin ukoll biex ittaffi l-effetti ta’ din il-kriżi. madankollu, anke jekk sar progress, il-proċess miexi bil-mod. sal-11 ta’ jannar ta’ din is-sena, proprju sebat elef u tliet mija u sebgħa u tmenin persuna biss ġew rilokati mill-greċja. jekk inħaffu dan il-proċess inkunu qed ngħinu lill-greċja u dan ikun qed iħalli impatt fuq il-kundizzjonijiet tal-ħajja tar-rifuġjati. it-talbiet għar-rilokazzjoni għandhom jiżdiedu b’mod urġenti. l-istati membri għandhom jirrispondu minnufih u b’mod pożittiv lejn sejħiet għall-esperti mill-aġenziji - primarjament il-frontex u l-easo - bħala appoġġ lejn dawk l-istati membri li jħabbtu wiċċhom ma’ din is-sitwazzjoni. dan ikun bżonjuż sabiex tiġi aċċellerata l-implimentazzjoni tal-proċess ta’ rilokazzjoni. stabbiltà fit-tul fis-sitwazzjoni fir-rotta tal-lvant tal-mediterran teħtieġ ukoll iżjed implimentazzjoni tad-dikjarazzjoni bejn l-unjoni ewropea u t-turkija. hemm bżonn iżjed impenn sabiex inħaffu u ntejbu l-effiċjenza tal-proċeduri għat-talba tal-ażil, kif ukoll għar-ritorn tal-immigrati mill-gżejjer griegi lura lejn it-turkija. appoġġ kontinwu lejn il-pajjiżi tal-balkani tal-punent huwa kruċjali. fuq perjodu twil ta’ żmien se nkomplu neżaminaw il-proposti leġiżlattivi fuq ir-riforma għal sistema komuni ewropea tal-ażil, ħalli tkompli tibni fuq ix-xogħol li diġà sar mill-presidenzi kemm tal-olanda, kif ukoll dik slovakka. sistema komuni ewropea tal-ażil iżjed b’saħħitha hija importanti sabiex ir-responsabbiltà tinqasam bejn l-istati membri b’mod iżjed ġust.l-għan aħħari tagħna huwa li, b’mod gradwali, ikun hemm politika sostenibbli fuq l-ażil u l-migrazzjoni, fejn fiha ninkludu kontroll effettiv fuq il-konfini esterni tagħna. qed nimmiraw ukoll li nindirizzaw u nsolvu sitwazzjonijiet ta’ emerġenza, bħal dawk diskussi llum, sabiex insalvaw il-ħajja ta’ bosta persuni, kif niżġuraw li s-sistema wkoll tkun waħda ġusta. l-appoġġ tagħkom ikun ferm apprezzat ukoll, u ninsab ċert li l-kummissarju kapaċi jagħtikom iżjed informazzjoni fuq dan is-suġġett.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this timely debate. migrants and refugees in europe are facing the harshest winter conditions we have seen in decades, from the aegean islands to the north of europe. in some parts of europe, this was not expected. we have all seen the images in the press of many of the refugee camps and let me be clear: nobody should feel proud of this situation. our moral obligation is to offer these people dignity. today. not next week. not even tomorrow. we are therefore assisting the authorities in their response on all the urgent actions that need to be taken by greece in order to accelerate the winterisation of the camps. both my dear colleague commissioner avramopoulos and i are in regular contact with the greek authorities. on the greek islands, where the situation is most serious, we are exploring all possible solutions to assist the government and the local authorities in these extraordinary times. commissioner avramopoulos was in lesbos earlier today, to assess the situation on the ground and, of course, to discuss and find immediate solutions. we welcome the quick response of the greek authorities to deal with the difficult situation on the islands. first, to move the most vulnerable to winterised reception sites. second, to transfer to the mainland asylum applicants – especially vulnerables – who cannot be returned to turkey and who therefore have been referred to the regular asylum process. third, to deploy a navy ship to accommodate those in need, especially in lesbos, during the harsh weather conditions. having said this, for the medium term, we are discussing with the greek authorities the creation of appropriate shelters, including closed facilities on the islands, as well as the improvement of existing infrastructure. as my dear colleague dimitris avramopoulos mentioned to me and said today in lesbos, this solution will only work in cooperation and with the support of the local authorities and, of course, of the local populations in the islands who have demonstrated immense generosity to hundreds and thousands of refugees and migrants in the last two years. we stand ready to provide available funding to create this additional accommodation capacity and we have communicated this to the national and local authorities. we did so in the mainland, in partnership with unhcr and other humanitarian actors and other humanitarian partners. the european union humanitarian aid partners – un agencies, international organisations and ngos – are also on the ground assisting. over 200 000 winterised items have been distributed to the refugees and migrants – sleeping bags, blankets, and clothing appropriate for cold weather. these are not of course long-term solutions, but these extraordinary times require extraordinary responses. we are monitoring the situation on the island closely and we will keep doing whatever is needed to support the greek authorities for as long as it takes. on the mainland, the situation is very different. winterisation can be considered to be under control. thirty-one sites are already winterised with the help of the emergency support instrument. this is my responsibility, through the emergency support instrument, and thank you so much for your support in establishing this emergency support instrument, which is managed by my services and dg echo. eur 200 million were allocated last year in the humanitarian field alone, and 25% of this amount – more than eur 50 million – has been provided to humanitarian aid partners for winterisation activities in greece, in particular on the mainland, and of course to repair and improve existing shelters, to construct new ones, to improve sanitation conditions and to provide heating – the list is long. this is in addition to the funds already available. since the beginning of 2015, eur 352 in emergency assistance from the home affairs funds were made available for greece. this assistance, provided either directly to the national authorities or to eu agencies and international organisations, is aimed at directly supporting migration management in greece, including its reception capacities and, of course, improving the camps on the mainland and islands. this emergency funding comes on top of the eur 509 million already available to greece under the national programmes for 2014-2020. here, let me remind you that, overall, the european union has made available over eur one billion for greece under the home affair funds and the new emergency support instrument. greece is the biggest beneficiary of these eu funds. let me now turn to serbia and to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the commission is using all possible tools to help the authorities cope with the refugee crisis, not least because these two countries are candidate states. here we are also providing significant financial and technical support. i am aware of the huge difficulties due to the cold weather and heavy snowfall, especially in serbia. i will be going to serbia this weekend to assess the situation on the ground and to discuss with the authorities, meet with the refugees and express once again tangible european union solidarity. expanding the reception capacities and ensuring that existing centres are adequate for the winter has been a priority for us. with more than eur 43 million allocated to serbia since october 2015, both through humanitarian aid and pre-accession assistance, the european union is the largest donor. (eur) 19 million of humanitarian assistance was granted to improve reception conditions, to winterise facilities, and to provide a warm meal and medical help. a further eur 24 million financed through the instrument for pre-accession is also helping serbia to host these refugees and migrants and at the same time to reinforce its capacity to control its borders. this is part of over eur 118 million in eu financial and technical support for serbia in this field since 2007. of course, more needs to be done to provide safe and humane conditions for migrants, including through the expansion of reception capacity. we stand ready to help and this is why i am going there at the weekend to negotiate and discuss matters with the serbian authorities in order to improve the situation on the ground. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is hosting around 200 refugees. since the crisis broke out in 2015, the commission has allocated eur 19 million specifically to help the former yugoslav republic of macedonia cope with the refugee crisis, including in humanitarian assistance. this is part of over eur 50 million in eu financial and technical support for the country since 2007 in the field of border, migration and asylum management. we will consider additional funds as needs arise. this is the situation in the three countries referred to – greece, serbia and fyrom – and course i would like to say again that we are not proud of this very painful situation. the european union allocated enough money, but through some weaknesses on the ground this money was not utilised in the best way in order to deal with this unprecedented situation.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i congratulate you most sincerely on having renewed the confidence of the house. europe is experiencing one of the worst cold spells in recent years, affecting thousands of people seeking refuge, especially at the balkan and aegean borders, and affecting the most vulnerable groups, especially children and the elderly, with severe virulence. housing and food are precarious. all precarious, all inadequate in the camps which affect 120,000 people. i have been on the ground, i have been in moria and mytilene and i have seen the fraud that containers represent. containers are frigid in winter and scorching hot in summer. you have referred to the misuse of funds, commissioner. but it is the responsibility of the european commission not only to send the funds but also to monitor their proper use. we have made progress in maritime rescue, but now they are dying at our borders, and the essential priority is saving lives. we are not talking about philosophies, we are debating the title that concerns us here. we don't talk about urgency, we talk about emergency and we talk about solidarity and we talk about emergency response. we already see this in articles 21 and 80 of the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. but what we urgently need to do is to commit ourselves. and do not speak to me, mr president-in-office, about turkey. turkey is not part of this debate. the european union is the only party to this debate. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr president, thank you for your speech and your words in favour of compromise. but you know what? that many of the refugees who are currently trapped in greece, under the snow, should be in some member states, but they are not fulfilling their commitments on resettlement and relocation. and my question is very clear: do you think that the spanish government is fulfilling its commitments as it should, considering that it has only so far implemented and received 6% of the refugees it committed to accept in the relocation mechanism agreed with the european commission?
the answer is 'blue card'. mr. deputy, my words are wrapped in commitment, and they are wrapped in compassion, and they concern any government. so what i say is not about a specific situation. i agree: 8,000 people have been relocated against the commitment committed. but what i am talking about now is not what you are asking, with your political intentions. i'm simply talking about emergency, and the emergency is visible, and compassion transcends any positive or negative action by any government.
madam president, in recent days, the television channels of some of the richest countries in the european union have been talking about a cold wave in their own countries. they're talking about flu outbreaks and declaring a state of emergency. but where the emergency situation is, it is in the balkans, it is in greece, it is in romania, it is in the czech republic, it is in various places in serbia, where thousands and thousands of refugees have spent christmas in a veritable wave of physical and moral cold, abandoned by the other governments of the union, which have not assumed their responsibilities in the humane treatment of those who arrive at our borders. it is about giving them emergency aid - food, shelter, medical care, legal aid, all kinds of aid - but it is also about putting a medium and long-term plan into action, which is called a winterization plan. i encourage the commission and the member states to make that commitment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i hope that this aid will reach the refugees, but i am turning to the international organisation for migration, the unhcr, amnesty international and the commission's own data, which knows that in many places in the union, including some in the czech republic, this situation is being suffered. i'm not against the czech republic. other countries have more opportunities than the czech republic and are not exercising their responsibilities. possibly mine is among them.
madam president, i have to ask you. thank you, commissioner, for your empathy towards those suffering from emergency situations such as we are witnessing in places across europe. i am pained by the european indifference when i see people fleeing war and torture defying death under a wave of cold, which seems to have frozen not only the bodies of helpless children, but also our hearts, unable to move forward in this refugee crisis. last summer i was in athens and lesbos. there i found out, entering the shops in kara tepe, in moria, seeing the hellish heat they suffered. today those same people, those same refugees will be suffering in the same tents in brutal cold. the situation is dramatic; therefore, our request must also be dramatic, to prevent children from getting infections and dying of the flu. we are in time to send emergency aid to greece and its islands. yesterday was hot, today cold, and tomorrow, what will it be? we need to push for a simplified asylum system that allows safe and legal pathways to europe so that people in desperation do not have to put themselves in the hands of unscrupulous traffickers. the procedures must be speeded up so that refugees can leave greece. because that's become a rat trap, and people live without hope. i would like to end by making an appeal to protect minors, the most vulnerable victims. 10% of them are unaccompanied minors who need protection, food and psychological support. because no child can live in fear and away from home, with cold, not only in his body, but also in his soul.
blue card question. on 20 march 2016, when the eu-turkey agreement entered into force, greece ceased to be a transit country and became the indefinite custodian of 66,000 refugees. at least half of them should be relocated by now, but we know that only about 10% will be. greece also received 200 million from the european emergency aid instrument to take on this responsibility of turning the ephemeral and temporary into something permanent. what has the greek government done? has mr tsipras lost control of the administration? because with 200 million we can do a lot for 66 000 refugees, if we count, of course, on european commitments.
mr president, i have a lot of confidence in the commissioner and i think he is making every effort possible. and i have great hope in the maltese presidency, because i think the maltese presidency has a special sensitivity to a matter like this. the truth is, as all the honourable members have said, that we have created a huge legal and human limbo for thousands of people, and that limbo sometimes freezes and sometimes reaches extremely high temperatures and becomes hell. and this is going to keep happening. why don't we at least intervene on our own territory? why do we not get all those people off the greek islands who are in that ice limbo which has become a mousetrap, as you said, for many children who are not responsible for anything and who are entitled to international aid and international protection? instead of welcoming them, we have abandoned them, and we are responsible, of course, for the political decisions and the inefficiency of our own management. and i look rather to the maltese presidency, which is coming in, to encourage it to insist to the council, to insist to the prime ministers on the urgent need for them to act so that this debate will one day be a debate of hope and not of despair.
mr president, commission, maltese presidency, when the council meets at the end of each six-month rotating presidency, it is so that the governments of the member states can talk to each other; but when they come here to the european parliament, they do so not only to dialogue but also to listen to the representatives of the citizens, who are outraged at the polar winter to which the refugees in their camps have been cruelly subjected. that is why i am writing to the maltese presidency, a country which has been able to sustain its europeanism despite having experienced on the front line the most dramatic dimension of the migratory pressure, which we have misnamed the 'refugee crisis', in its most human dimension, in defiance of this endless crisis, which broke out in 2008, so badly managed, to demand that the governments of the member states fulfil their own commitments on resettlement and relocation, but above all to unlock the asylum package and the visa code and to adopt, at last, legal pathways to access the european union for asylum seekers and refugees in the event of a serious humanitarian situation. humanitarian visas, humanitarian corridors, and the like. maltese presidency, speak to your fellow council members. in the governments of the member states of the european union there must be a response that can be called 'humanitarian', with a humanitarian dimension, to what we have wrongly called the 'refugee crisis'.
mr president, today thousands of refugees are suffering from a terrible cold wave in the balkans, in greece, with devastating consequences. and they are suffering because of our own inaction - of some national governments and also of the european institutions. they're suffering from freezing temperatures with no shelter, no food, no shelter. a cold wave that has already caused several deaths on the continent, of people fleeing their countries because they were getting bombs in their homes. many of them, despite surviving a dangerous journey (we should remember that there were five thousand deaths in the mediterranean last year), have found themselves in the most absolute helplessness on the continent they hoped to receive, and some, as i said, have met death. our inaction, or at least our insufficient action, should remove our consciences. because where is the soul of europe in the face of what is happening? we cannot tolerate it for decency, for dignity, for justice. it is necessary to use the emergency fund immediately, to activate all the mechanisms with the complicity of the national government, to put an end to the consequences of this ice wave, to avoid deaths and above all the suffering of those who were only waiting for a place of refuge, fleeing from the war.
mr president, we must apply emergency measures to deal with the successive cold waves, but we remain committed to a global response to the refugee crisis which involves returning to our values, complying with the reception legislation in force, working on integration and creating safe arrival and asylum procedures. the societies with soul, the ones that manage diversity best, are also the most prosperous. citizens' solidarity is clearly expressed in initiatives by individuals, civic organisations, local or regional institutions, the level that will host and manage the services that refugees should receive. we must link up with this provision and have the civic and political will in the decision-making processes of the states most reluctant to implement these measures. and, in that vein, the president of the basque country, iñigo urkullu, after winning the elections again, betting on those values, has dedicated his first trip abroad to getting to know the experience of the humanitarian corridors of san egidio and will ask that this be applied to the spanish government, that it be applied in spain.
mr president, it is a real shame to see what is happening in greece. i do not know if we are all aware of the disconnect that is generated by seeing how the whole of europe treats its citizens, in relation to the european project of so many people who are looking at that and thinking: 'where is europe?' furthermore, i think we should be aware - and you know this - that you knew this could happen. obviously when you have, as has been said, so many thousands of people in limbo without any help, a disaster of this kind could happen and in the end it has happened. and it has happened because we are more concerned as europe to send refugees back to turkey, to prevent them from coming, and not to receive them with dignity. and i want to remind you that this is happening because most of the member states that have committed themselves to relocation quotas are not meeting their commitments. spain in particular has not fulfilled even 10% of what it committed (6%). and it is a real shame what is happening and the responsibility is on the member states. and my last comment is to the maltese presidency. i am quite frankly coming here today to talk about the implementation and the border control and the implementation of the agreement with turkey, which is falling apart. look, you know what? today wasn't the day.
in writing. the socialists have managed to include in this plenary a debate on the dramatic situation facing thousands of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants who are suffering extremely difficult conditions due to the cold wave that is sweeping europe, and which adds to the already unsustainable situation in many camps. the snow and the lack of proper facilities, in the absence of even basic heating systems, are making life even more difficult and unbearable for thousands of people in need of international protection. we call for an immediate reaction, in particular from the council and the governments of the member states, to deal with this dramatic situation which could have been foreseen by putting in place the necessary means, including the mobilisation of the union's internal emergency fund, to cover basic needs and provide a response which can be described as humanitarian. it is also essential that governments meet their own commitments on relocation and resettlement, which are less than 15%. the thousands of people who are still left out in the cold in greece should have been moved to different member states months ago.
in writing. the socialists have managed to include in this plenary a debate on the dramatic situation facing thousands of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants who are suffering extremely difficult conditions due to the cold wave that is sweeping europe, and which adds to the already unsustainable situation in many camps. the snow and the lack of proper facilities, in the absence of even basic heating systems, are making life even more difficult and unbearable for thousands of people in need of international protection. we call for an immediate reaction, in particular from the council and the governments of the member states, to deal with this dramatic situation which could have been foreseen by putting in place the necessary means, including the mobilisation of the union's internal emergency fund, to cover basic needs and provide a response which can be described as humanitarian. it is also essential that governments meet their own commitments on relocation and resettlement, which are less than 15%. the thousands of people who are still left out in the cold in greece should have been moved to different member states months ago.
in writing. the socialists have managed to include in this plenary a debate on the dramatic situation facing thousands of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants who are suffering extremely difficult conditions due to the cold wave that is sweeping europe, and which adds to the already unsustainable situation in many camps. the snow and the lack of proper facilities, in the absence of even basic heating systems, are making life even more difficult and unbearable for thousands of people in need of international protection. we call for an immediate reaction, in particular from the council and the governments of the member states, to deal with this dramatic situation which could have been foreseen by putting in place the necessary means, including the mobilisation of the union's internal emergency fund, to cover basic needs and provide a response which can be described as humanitarian. it is also essential that governments meet their own commitments on relocation and resettlement, which are less than 15%. the thousands of people who are still left out in the cold in greece should have been moved to different member states months ago.
in writing. the socialists have managed to include in this plenary a debate on the dramatic situation facing thousands of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants who are suffering extremely difficult conditions due to the cold wave that is sweeping europe, and which adds to the already unsustainable situation in many camps. the snow and the lack of proper facilities, in the absence of even basic heating systems, are making life even more difficult and unbearable for thousands of people in need of international protection. we call for an immediate reaction, in particular from the council and the governments of the member states, to deal with this dramatic situation which could have been foreseen by putting in place the necessary means, including the mobilisation of the union's internal emergency fund, to cover basic needs and provide a response which can be described as humanitarian. it is also essential that governments meet their own commitments on relocation and resettlement, which are less than 15%. the thousands of people who are still left out in the cold in greece should have been moved to different member states months ago.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the alternative rapporteurs from the various groups for their cooperation and for the good ideas they have given us to improve the text by means of amendments. i would like to say that it has been a long time since the commission has had occasion to put forward a proposal relating to the need to analyse and assess the situation of freight transport within what is now the general situation of mobility, infrastructure and european transport, which is more concerned with the passenger part of the transport than with the freight part. in this sense, at the present time, when there is growth through the opening up of panama and suez, and above all, let us say, the various aspects of electronic commerce and the rise of the new social masses, which are precisely demanding a path to exports in europe, we need, of course, to make an assessment of the current situation. and here we are, in relation to the free movement of persons, goods and services, with the emergence of national rules which tend to create new obstacles, without the commission having so far succeeded in establishing a clear and obvious framework to avoid such obstacles and problems for mobility. we also need a strategy with a whole series of points to make national and european union legislation more coherent, where the importance of urban nodes and specific urban logistics also appears, and to ensure that the financing of the new financial framework that will start to be negotiated in 2017 recognises all these needs. we also need, and we are watching with interest, how the commission is also interested in improving them, in improving crossborder transport and, above all, in particular, the links that are missing in my region - for example, everything related to the canfranc crossing - and also to improve rail links to sea ports, river ports or airports. in the case of spain, i would also be interested in the cantabrian-mediterranean corridor. and above all, facilitating the capillarity - one of the industry's demands - of the global network towards the core network and corridors, and the fundamental role of multimodal platforms in trans-european networks. a series of ideas or attempts at a solution: in the european semester, the need to make national plans more consistent with the plans that the member states themselves have signed in brussels, and which often do not correspond; the proposal for the golden rule, that is, that the obligation to co-finance european infrastructures does not lead to public debt, specifically. i would also like the coordinators to concentrate on the freight aspects of their respective corridors, and we can assess with the commission on a biannual basis what is being done in those corridors in relation to the improvement of intermodality in the field of freight transport. we are also concerned about the need for investment in the maintenance of these infrastructures, not just the construction of new infrastructure, and that is why we also thank mr katainen for agreeing in parliament that all investment in the maintenance and upgrading of motorways and roads could be part of the new efsi. we certainly support the continuation of the digital transport and logistics forum, especially with all aspects of innovation, digitisation, simplification, and above all to avoid that redundant legislation again that is adding layers to the national, regional and local with the new proposals for european directives and standards. we certainly want to facilitate the development of ports and the systems that link them and improve safety, especially those like galileo and egnos, and to ensure that they are financed so that we do not always have to worry about their continuity. we therefore ask the commission to provide specific funding for freight transport and a specific call for proposals, which we hope will be launched in 2017, for logistics projects. the commission is also proposing that projects in urban nodes, specifically those relating to much-needed urban logistics, which avoid pollution, noise and congestion, be supported and facilitated through good practice. we also stress the need for new technologies such as automation, drones, etc., which are to be integrated more and more rapidly into logistics and freight transport, to have a fluid relationship with conventional vehicles and also with users, who are increasingly vulnerable. we complement our report with a proposal for green corridors, with the need to improve data and, as a conclusion, with the need to restore the dignity of employment and working conditions to make them more attractive to the new generations.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs ayala sender and hope that the contents of this report will oblige the states to fulfil the commitments they have signed. the first incentive is the idea of not counting these investments as debt. the second is that we need an integrated system of mobility of people and goods, fully intermodal, with no bottlenecks between states and low emissions. thirdly, this logistics revolution is fundamental to combating climate change, improving our global competitiveness and activating an interesting employment corridor based on knowledge and the intensive use of new technologies. so when a state does not fulfil its part of the bargain and delays investments in a priority project like the so-called 'basque y', it is hurting all the partners in the european project. that is why we must find the means to relaunch this list of essential priority projects, so that we can talk seriously about transport, mobility and logistics in the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president happy new year mrs thyssen. it's the first time we've met, we'll see each other a lot more. i should like to thank mrs rodrigues and all the other speakers for the enormous effort they have put into this excellent text and i will begin very briefly by asking: a social pillar for what and why? let's get to the point. a social pillar is indispensable at this time for three reasons. first, to face the new realities that come from new forms of work - technology, adaptation to it, new generations - civil society has to move forward. secondly, to combat the inequalities that a severe economic crisis and also the creation of a single currency within the eurozone - a eurozone in construction and growing - have inevitably created, we must look after people in parallel. and thirdly, to make a bigger and better europe around a citizenship which has its model: a model of coherence, of competitiveness within solidarity. that is why we have worked with mrs rodrigues and the other colleagues to find fundamental values. it's not the work pillar, it's the social pillar. we talk about the right to decent housing; we talk, of course, about gender equality and many other things. if we stick to these fundamental texts, the majority of my group will of course vote in favour of this value, because it is a lever, it is a starting point for developing actions - and, of course, financing them, because it is very important that it not remain in the void - to benefit our civil society, not only in the labour field. we will obviously have difficulties in practical development. but that comes later. let us now accept the model of european society we want.
(the speaker prefaced his remarks with a few words in catalan.) mr president, social rights should not be just a pillar of the european union; they must be their foundation and their priority, because there is no real european project without social justice, and there is no social justice without social investment, without tax justice, without effective redistribution, without accessible and quality public services, without decent working conditions, without the minimum of economic security, without an effective right to housing, without gender equality, and without opportunities for all – especially for the young. probably, if the european union had long had social europe really on its agenda, we would have better navigated through the crisis that has had such a negative impact on social cohesion in europe – especially in certain countries, including mine, catalonia. let us not make the same mistake again. let us bring social content finally to the european political project.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you a question. we are facing the greatest challenge the european union will face in the coming years in this second part of the mandate. a social pillar, a pillar of social rights that recovers the european soul; that reconnects with millions of citizens who have been disconnected from the european institutions in recent years; that tries to fix much of the institutional problems of the euro currency and, at the same time, that recovers the will for convergence and redistribution that the european union should have. in this context, concrete measures such as a minimum wage table, improved collective bargaining, child benefit, the desire to have an unemployment mechanism, a european unemployment benefit, allow us to have an objective. a social pillar that goes beyond a letter of goodwill. we cannot repeat the mistakes we made with europe 2020 or the lisbon strategy, which have been left on wet paper, given that we have 120 million poor people or people at risk of social exclusion in europe today.
mr president, social rights are the great absentee of the european construction and that is why we are surprised by the commission's proposal to create a social pillar of rights. the european union's economic policies in the euro area are summed up in the gradual dismantling of the institutions that protect the working majority. it would not be the first time, unfortunately, that the european commission has promised us something and then offered us the opposite. that is why it is important to listen to parliament, which in this report details many of the initiatives needed to ensure that the pillar of social rights is not just another smokescreen. the implementation of the european social charter, a framework directive on decent work, a system of minimum incomes above the poverty line, the strengthening of collective bargaining - these are all concrete and necessary initiatives which the commission must take into account.
in writing. the european social pillar was announced by president juncker to the european parliament on 9 september 2015. the european pillar of social rights sets out a set of key principles to support fair and well-functioning labour markets and social protection systems for the euro area. the areas of action of the pillar are grouped under three main strands: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions and adequate social protection. the report highlights that persons in vulnerable situations or who are more frequent victims of discrimination, such as women, ethnic minorities, the long-term unemployed, senior citizens and persons with disabilities may need complementary measures aimed at promoting their participation in the labour market and ensuring decent living standards throughout their lives; in this regard, it also highlights that the report insists that the rights of persons with disabilities must be integrated into the whole social pillar with a human rights-based approach that is in line with the obligations of the union and its member states under the crpd.
in writing. european citizens have long called for europe to focus on social aspects, and i therefore welcome this report, which will help to better balance economic policies and social needs, support fairer labour markets and protection systems, and strengthen the european social model, helping to achieve upward economic, social and territorial convergence. the eu is facing important current and future challenges, such as the digitisation of the economy and the consequent emergence of new jobs and forms of work, demographic challenges and the scourge of poverty, which unfortunately is still very much present in our society. the reduction of poverty and social exclusion must be one of the pillars of the social pillar, as current growth can only be sustainable if it includes all citizens. to achieve this we must work together in the short term, through policies that alleviate existing poverty and promote entry into the labour market, and in the long term, through policies that break the cycle of poverty, mainly focused on education and reducing school dropouts.
author. madam president, women's human rights are also human rights. the right of women not to be violated is a human right and therefore, in view of the complaints of rape in the central african republic by french soldiers and blue helmets, i want to appeal to the high representative and to the states, in particular the french state, to put an end to impunity for any military man who is an aggressor, who is a sex offender. we also wish to express our deep concern at the lack of transparency and the closure by the french authorities of complaints against their soldiers for rape in the central african republic. we ask that no complaints be filed and that those that have been filed be reopened. we also call for an independent and transparent investigation and for the truth and justice to be established in relation to these serious allegations of sexual abuse.
mr president, all our solidarity and affection and all the strength that is necessary for the italian victims. but since commissioner stylianides is here and we also know that there are hundreds of thousands of refugees in a situation which is almost impossible because of this cold wave, i too call for solidarity and help for these refugees.
in writing. the eu must react forcefully, clearly and unitedly against the arbitrary and international law-breaking measures adopted or announced by the new us administration, which is hostile to the eu, latin america and the international community as a whole. the spanish socialist delegation proposes the following measures: 1. to request the european commission to submit a legal report on the impact of the new north american immigration provisions, specifically on the effects of the ban on entry into the united states for citizens with dual nationality, of a european country and of one of the states concerned. 2. to ask high representative mogherini to call the eu ambassador in washington for consultations. 3. denying the plaque to ted malloch, whom president trump intends to appoint as ambassador to the eu, for his statements hostile to the euro and the very existence of the eu. 4. to ask the member states not to receive president trump as long as he maintains this policy of hostility and contempt for human rights. 5. to request a debate with a resolution at the next plenary session to establish the european parliament's position on eu-us relations in this new context.
in writing. the eu must react forcefully, clearly and unitedly against the arbitrary and international law-breaking measures adopted or announced by the new us administration, which is hostile to the eu, latin america and the international community as a whole. the spanish socialist delegation proposes the following measures: 1. to request the european commission to submit a legal report on the impact of the new north american immigration provisions, specifically on the effects of the ban on entry into the united states for citizens with dual nationality, of a european country and of one of the states concerned. 2. to ask high representative mogherini to call the eu ambassador in washington for consultations. 3. denying the plaque to ted malloch, whom president trump intends to appoint as ambassador to the eu, for his statements hostile to the euro and the very existence of the eu. 4. to ask the member states not to receive president trump as long as he maintains this policy of hostility and contempt for human rights. 5. to request a debate with a resolution at the next plenary session to establish the european parliament's position on eu-us relations in this new context.
in writing. the eu must react forcefully, clearly and unitedly against the arbitrary and international law-breaking measures adopted or announced by the new us administration, which is hostile to the eu, latin america and the international community as a whole. the spanish socialist delegation proposes the following measures: 1. to request the european commission to submit a legal report on the impact of the new north american immigration provisions, specifically on the effects of the ban on entry into the united states for citizens with dual nationality, of a european country and of one of the states concerned. 2. to ask high representative mogherini to call the eu ambassador in washington for consultations. 3. denying the plaque to ted malloch, whom president trump intends to appoint as ambassador to the eu, for his statements hostile to the euro and the very existence of the eu. 4. to ask the member states not to receive president trump as long as he maintains this policy of hostility and contempt for human rights. 5. to request a debate with a resolution at the next plenary session to establish the european parliament's position on eu-us relations in this new context.
in writing. the eu must react forcefully, clearly and unitedly against the arbitrary and international law-breaking measures adopted or announced by the new us administration, which is hostile to the eu, latin america and the international community as a whole. the spanish socialist delegation proposes the following measures: 1. to request the european commission to submit a legal report on the impact of the new north american immigration provisions, specifically on the effects of the ban on entry into the united states for citizens with dual nationality, of a european country and of one of the states concerned. 2. to ask high representative mogherini to call the eu ambassador in washington for consultations. 3. denying the plaque to ted malloch, whom president trump intends to appoint as ambassador to the eu, for his statements hostile to the euro and the very existence of the eu. 4. to ask the member states not to receive president trump as long as he maintains this policy of hostility and contempt for human rights. 5. to request a debate with a resolution at the next plenary session to establish the european parliament's position on eu-us relations in this new context.
in writing. the eu must react forcefully, clearly and unitedly against the arbitrary measures and actions contrary to international law promoted by the new us administration, which is hostile to the eu, to latin america and to the international community as a whole. the spanish socialist delegation proposes the following measures: 1. to request the european commission to draw up a legal report on the impact of the new north american immigration provisions, in particular on the effects of the ban on entry into the united states for citizens with dual nationality, of a european country and of one of the states concerned. 2. to ask high representative mogherini to call the eu ambassador in washington for consultations. 3. denying the plaque to ted malloch, whom president trump intends to appoint as ambassador to the eu, for his statements hostile to the euro and the very existence of the eu. 4. to ask the member states not to receive president trump as long as he maintains this policy of hostility and contempt for human rights. 5. to request a debate with a resolution at the next plenary session to establish the european parliament's position on eu-us relations in this new context.
in writing. the eu must react forcefully, clearly and unitedly against the arbitrary and international law-breaking measures adopted or announced by the new us administration, which is hostile to the eu, latin america and the international community as a whole. the spanish socialist delegation proposes the following measures: 1. to request the european commission to submit a legal report on the impact of the new north american immigration provisions, specifically on the effects of the ban on entry into the united states for citizens with dual nationality, of a european country and of one of the states concerned. 2. to ask high representative mogherini to call the eu ambassador in washington for consultations. 3. denying the plaque to ted malloch, whom president trump intends to appoint as ambassador to the eu, for his statements hostile to the euro and the very existence of the eu. 4. to ask the member states not to receive president trump as long as he maintains this policy of hostility and contempt for human rights. 5. to request a debate with a resolution at the next plenary session to establish the european parliament's position on eu-us relations in this new context.
in writing. the eu must react forcefully, clearly and unitedly against the arbitrary and international law-breaking measures adopted or announced by the new us administration, which is hostile to the eu, latin america and the international community as a whole. the spanish socialist delegation proposes the following measures: 1. to request the european commission to submit a legal report on the impact of the new north american immigration provisions, specifically on the effects of the ban on entry into the united states for citizens with dual nationality, of a european country and of one of the states concerned. 2. to ask high representative mogherini to call the eu ambassador in washington for consultations. 3. denying the plaque to ted malloch, whom president trump intends to appoint as ambassador to the eu, for his statements hostile to the euro and the very existence of the eu. 4. to ask the member states not to receive president trump as long as he maintains this policy of hostility and contempt for human rights. 5. to request a debate with a resolution at the next plenary session to establish the european parliament's position on eu-us relations in this new context.
mr president, energy is key to the cohesion of the union. the current political uncertainty outside europe should serve as a stimulus to strengthen our energy union project. i think it's crucial to move towards a new model, improve the targets to meet our commitments, maintain european leadership in renewables. the commission's proposal is therefore too small and a more ambitious proposal on renewables is needed, while maintaining the binding targets for the member states. we must move towards energy independence for europe. we need to provide europe with safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy and we need to increase transparency: price transparency to avoid situations such as the spectacular increases that have taken place in my country, spain, for example, over the last week. it is an opportunity for economic modernisation and for the creation of quality employment which also takes into account vulnerable citizens. you have to give an answer of... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the energy union is an instrument for the energy oligopoly, which will take advantage of the liberalisation of the market to manipulate it as it pleases. we have seen this in recent weeks in my country, spain, when prices doubled while exports continued to france and a good part of the generation, including the most efficient cycles, remained suspiciously closed. will the commission initiate any investigation into these facts or will it continue to accept measures in favour of large electricity companies, renewables and social security, even in contravention of european rules? liberalisation and market power for the big oligopolies are one and the same thing, and therefore other policies, energy sovereignty, must be promoted. in its documents, the targets for efficiency and renewables are lacking in ambition and, of course, there are regrettable omissions. and as regards distribution and marketing, references to decentralisation are ill-suited to their commitment to the market, which in the big ones will eat the small ones.
in writing. in the face of current political uncertainty, we must strengthen our energy union project. energy is a fundamental pillar of the cohesion of the states. the second report on the state of the energy union shows that the energy transition is a fact. but we risk several member states not reaching the 2020 targets. we must redouble our efforts to steer this transition properly into the next decade. i believe that improving targets is crucial to meeting our commitments, particularly in the area of renewable energy. we must maintain the binding targets of the member states, to consolidate european leadership in renewables and move towards greater energy independence for europe. we need to provide europe with safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy. it is necessary to increase transparency in energy prices in order to increase consumer confidence and avoid price rises that create social alarm, as has happened in spain in recent weeks. this energy transition is also an opportunity for economic modernisation and for the creation of quality jobs, which also prevents citizens from being in a position of energy vulnerability.
in writing. in the face of current political uncertainty, we must strengthen our energy union project. energy is a fundamental pillar of the cohesion of the states. the second report on the state of the energy union shows that the energy transition is a fact. but we risk several member states not reaching the 2020 targets. we must redouble our efforts to steer this transition properly into the next decade. i believe that improving targets is crucial to meeting our commitments, particularly in the area of renewable energy. we must maintain the binding targets of the member states, to consolidate european leadership in renewables and move towards greater energy independence for europe. we need to provide europe with safe, affordable and environmentally friendly energy. it is necessary to increase transparency in energy prices in order to increase consumer confidence and avoid price rises that create social alarm, as has happened in spain in recent weeks. this energy transition is also an opportunity for economic modernisation and for the creation of quality jobs, which also prevents citizens from being in a position of energy vulnerability.
in writing. with regard to the european commission's winter energy package, i would like to address some important points in the very limited space i have today: firstly, it is necessary to set more ambitious targets for renewable energy and to make these targets binding on the member states as well. secondly, to guarantee self-consumption, to define what are disproportionate charges and procedures and to prevent self-consumption from being penalized as is currently happening in the spanish state. the non-application of charges on self-consumed energy should be made clear. expand the groups that can be included within the concept of collective self-consumers. and finally, eliminate agrofuels and preserve land use for food production, preventing energy crops or forestation of agricultural land.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. it is true that the european union's foreign policy had not played much of a role in managing the migration flows, which were always dominated by the interior ministers, by the interior policy. in the last year, both the commission and the council have worked very hard. there is the valletta summit, the new partnership framework, the migration pacts, the high-level dialogues and the agreements and non-agreements signed, for example, with turkey or afghanistan. in fact, something quite unusual has happened, namely that the weight of foreign policy has been put to work with great energy, precisely to achieve the objectives that mrs mogherini described today with regard to the central mediterranean route. the question we must ask ourselves now is whether all this effort is going in the right direction. there are some results, it is true, which are insufficient, but what i am most concerned about is whether the horizon is the one we must agree on. are we really achieving what mrs mogherini has always advocated: the human rights, the dignity of people who emigrate? can the efforts of the commission and this parliament really do more than the efforts or the urgency of the council to achieve concrete results on how many people we have kept out of the european union? which of the two powers will ultimately have more power? the future and, i believe, the prestige of the european union depend to a large extent on that answer. the central mediterranean route is now the deadliest in the world: more than 200 people have died in just one month. stabilizing libya should probably be the central element, but not the only one. i think we must continue to call on the member states to make every effort to defend the dignity of the human person. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, in response to the inhumane measures announced by mr trump, mr weber, leader of the european conservatives, quickly came out to clarify that we do not build walls but we build bridges. i imagine that those bridges are the bridge to turkey, to afghanistan, to sudan, to pakistan or to nigeria to deport people who are denied international protection here. or maybe the bridge was referring to that agreement that's going to be signed with libya that the libyan coast guard will be the one to intercept migrants and refugees at sea and take them back to libya. there is a report from two months ago by the united nations documenting malnutrition, forced labor, sexual abuse, torture and beatings in the migrant centers in libya. some say they're like concentration camps. that is where the bridges of solidarity of the european union lead: to these centres.
mr president, commissioner, there was once an infamous deal with turkey which never became an international agreement and which many of us here in the european parliament have spoken out against, not only because it was inhuman to externalize the so-called 'migration crisis in the mediterranean', but above all because it was an ineffective response. all it did was to divert the pressure towards the libyan hell, which is now a veritable cursed road on which so many people risk their lives and lose them. it is therefore sad that many of us feel more identified with the quality of the speech, and especially the response, of the canadian prime minister, justin trudeau, than with the one offered so far by the european authorities. but the council is meeting in malta and i again call the council's attention to the need to include, in a comprehensive response and in line with european values, legal channels so that immigration can have a chance and, in particular, so that refugees can bring their claims for humanitarian protection before the european union. humanitarian visas blocked by the council! humanitarian visas are essential so that we can put in place a humanitarian response to this tragedy in which so many people are risking their lives and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i have to say... look, the ombudsman has just told you and just criticized you because in the agreement, the no agreement, with turkey there was neither an impact nor an analysis of the impact on human rights and she has criticized you for considering turkey a safe country. these requests and criticisms by the ombudsman have not been resolved and now a similar agreement is being considered with libya, in this case to help the coastguard return to the libyan coast the refugees trying to reach europe. look, libya, furthermore, i want to remind you that it is a country that has not ratified the 1951 refugee convention and a country that an ambassador just said recently in niger that it has camps that are comparable to concentration camps. under the circumstances, this cannot go on and this deal cannot be made. and i would also like to remind you today, because we are talking about the management of the central mediterranean route, that there are still deaths in the mediterranean because we do not have a maritime rescue operation in the mediterranean. operation sophia is not that. and it's now the ngos alone doing the work that governments should be doing.
libya is currently the origin of the vast majority of displaced refugees and migrants who are making the almost suicidal journey to europe. the council understands that following the controversial 'agreement' signed with turkey, the eastern mediterranean route to greece is 'stabilised' and is now seeking measures to stem the irregular departure of migrants from libya. the european council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in libya, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the socialist group has asked that this item be brought before the house so that parliament can make a statement before the summit and call for a humanitarian approach to migration management that respects international law, a common european immigration policy based on the principle of solidarity, consistent in its internal and external aspects, and the opening of safe and legal routes that offer an alternative for the thousands of people who continue to risk their lives to reach our shores.
libya is currently the origin of the vast majority of displaced refugees and migrants who are making the almost suicidal journey to europe. the council understands that following the controversial 'agreement' signed with turkey, the eastern mediterranean route to greece is 'stabilised' and is now seeking measures to stem the irregular departure of migrants from libya. the european council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in libya, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the socialist group has asked that this item be brought before the house so that parliament can make a statement before the summit and call for a humanitarian approach to migration management that respects international law, a common european immigration policy based on the principle of solidarity, consistent in its internal and external aspects, and the opening of safe and legal routes that offer an alternative for the thousands of people who continue to risk their lives to reach our shores.
mr president, commissioner, the crisis in south sudan is one of those crises that appears and disappears in the media but has been with us for almost 40 years: all kinds of destructive wars for ethnic reasons, for religious reasons, for the struggle for natural resources. it is a relatively young country, but its people have lived through these decades of war around and in the surroundings. and i have to point out that it is time that we took decisions to support those who have undertaken an exodus to neighbouring countries, those who have been displaced within south sudan's own territory, those who are in need of humanitarian aid, which is practically the entire population of the country. 30% of the trust fund for africa should be used for humanitarian assistance on the continent. we have to provide housing, we have to provide food and healthcare to those displaced, also financial aid. but above all i want to stress something that the commissioner has said: we must be active, not only as witnesses but also as main actors, in guaranteeing the peace process. we must be more active in ensuring the arms embargo and we must be more active in pursuing those who are obstructing the achievement of peace in the country.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all i would like to express my support for the work done by the election observation mission chaired by mrs gabriel and also my agreement with what the commissioner has said about gabon. i think we need to send a clear message. in africa, in some african countries, there are many things happening that we should not allow, but it is true that our possibilities for action are limited. but we must be firm and decisive about the possibilities for action that we have. how many times have we brought the situation in the democratic republic of the congo to the house's attention? many times. we've pretty much designed what was going to happen, month after month. and yet we have not been able to intervene to stop what is becoming, on the one hand, a mockery of president kabila towards his own people, but also a mockery of his commitments to the european institutions. we must repeat to the african countries that democracy is a game of rules that no one can break. and that in their dialogue with us, third countries must be clear that we are not going to compromise with some of the diversions that are taking place, for example, in the democratic republic of the congo or in gabon. because the possibilism we sometimes manifest in order not to end up breaking off our relations with these countries, with these governments, often ends up becoming complicity without our wanting it. but we must break the vicious circle of possibilism which ends up sustaining many governments that should not be trusted. dialogue is necessary because we do not want to abandon the gabonese or the congolese, but sanctions, specifically targeted at those responsible, must also be part of our action.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the debate we are holding today and the vote to be held tomorrow have a twofold objective: on the one hand, to express the concern of this parliament about the situation of instability and violence in these countries - the high representative, the council of ministers of the union and, as the commissioner reminded us, the united nations security council have already referred to this - and, on the other hand, to affirm the coherence of the european union's electoral observation missions, which are a flagship of our project and have generated respect, prestige and credibility. we must therefore reject the pressures and threats that have been directed at the european union's election observation mission, which was chaired by our colleague, mrs gabriel, and we must, mr president, mobilise all our efforts to ensure the stability of this region, of these countries, which are key to central africa and the great lakes region.
i am speaking on behalf of the s&d group. today this parliament must speak out against a practice, against the torture of women, against a violation of human rights such as female genital mutilation, a reality which affects more than half a million women in the european union and about 140 million women worldwide. we therefore welcome the proposals put forward by the commissioner on how to prevent and combat female genital mutilation, because i believe it is essential to hold public institutions at all levels to account. and let us not forget that we are not talking exclusively about women in the european union, that we can also contribute to fighting this practice at international level. we must therefore take this situation into account in the european union's foreign and cooperation policy so that we can eradicate this reality. and let's also keep in mind one thing, and that is that traditions and culture have a limit and that limit is respect for human rights, respect for women's rights.
mr president, commissioner, female genital mutilation is the total or partial amputation of the clitoris. if we visualize it, we will understand more clearly the barbarity suffered by 200 million women and girls in more than 30 countries. i recognize that it is not easy to confront this complex web of discrimination, customs, ignorance and religion that enslaves so many innocent girls who suffer in silence a mutilation that will mark them for the rest of their lives. a change in mindset is needed to achieve the abandonment of the knife, which endangers not only physical integrity but also psychological integrity. our action must not be aggressive, but must aim at raising awareness among the communities that practice it and at education, as this is the best way to combat this scourge, which has a very strong cultural resistance. women take it on, but the drivers are men, obviously because they don't mutilate them. unfortunately, an uncut woman is considered impure, and thus suffers social exclusion. i join all the campaigns for zero tolerance against genital mutilation, which, although it is mainly practised outside europe, also affects us here, since there are many girls in our countries at risk, because of family beliefs, although these cases do not always come to light. although there are signs of hope, as some african countries have banned female genital mutilation by law, the reality is that it is still practiced clandestinely. the road is long, but all the effort is little to restore dignity to so many helpless girls, victims of a very serious violation of the rights of the child, or rather, of the rights of girls.
member of the commission. – mr president, following parliament’s consent on 14 december on the protocol of accession of ecuador, i am very pleased to confirm that this agreement has been provisionally applied since 1 january this year. this is good news because a new trade agreement that creates new export opportunities for ecuador – and of course opportunities for our goods and services – is also very good news for ecuador. it is the first trade agreement with a developed country, an agreement that respects the level of development in ecuador, and provides the opportunity for them to diversify the economy, reduce dependency on oil exports and raw materials and create new jobs for ecuadorians. i would like to thank the committee on international trade, and its rapporteur, mr scholz, for the work that it did to make this agreement possible. since the agreement has been applied, the next step is, of course, to amend the banana stabilisation mechanism as well, and that is what we are debating today. this mechanism needed to be amended to incorporate ecuador. i very much welcome the constructive discussions and the agreement that we reached just before christmas under the leadership of the rapporteur, mrs de sarnez, and also the co-rapporteurs, shadow rapporteurs and the chairman, mr lange. the banana stabilisation mechanism, to which imports of bananas from ecuador will be subject, is a good and efficient mechanism to ensure stability in the eu market in case of a surge in imports of bananas from ecuador. mrs de sarnez gave a very long explanation of its content, but let me just reiterate the main points. with the amendments proposed by this parliament, the amending regulation further improves the mechanism. there will be an early warning mechanism when imports reach 80% of their relevant yearly threshold. transparency will be improved, and data on imports will be made regularly available and in a user—friendly manner. finally, the institutions also agreed that before the stabilisation mechanism expires at the end of 2019, the commission will assess the situation of eu banana producers. even after the expiry, we will continue to regularly analyse the state of the market and the eu producers and, where necessary, take appropriate action. in the light of this provisional application of the trade agreement since january, i hope that this amended regulation on the banana stabilisation mechanism can be adopted, hopefully voted on with a big majority tomorrow, and then applied as soon as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, although the european banana sector and, in particular, the canary islands are always under threat, after the agreement we are going to vote on tomorrow i am sure that our future will be much better, but it has not been easy. for many, it was much more important to approve the agreement with ecuador than to guarantee the future of the banana sector. it was not for me, but it was for many and that is why i really thank the commissioner for getting involved, almost at the last moment, but it was enough that she got involved and that this went ahead. because we have to remember the reality: the producers in the outermost regions are always the losers in free trade agreements and that is why these safeguard clauses and the stabilization mechanism are important, because it is perhaps the last resource that our producers have to deal with imports, very often led by powerful multinationals that control the markets worldwide. when we started this debate, we were very clear that the mechanism had not worked so far. it was not working well and we have seen this with a very clear example, that of peru, which for four years has far exceeded the threshold set by the agreement and nothing had been done about it. so we understood that this system had to be changed and it has been changed, i think in the right way. i shall not go into the specifics of the situation, because the rapporteur and the commissioner have already said so, but i do think it is good that there is this early warning mechanism which obliges the commission to alert parliament and the council when the volume of imports reaches 80% of the thresholds. and i think it is also important that the sector, the producers themselves, can also participate with the member states in monitoring the development of trade. transparency, control, information and action in case of need are key words in this new system. we believe it is very important that action can be taken in the event of a serious deterioration of the market situation and also after 2020. but we mustn't let our guard down. we must continue to work on improving the marketing of our fruit. i have said many times that we have the best banana in the world, without a doubt, but we must be able to compete against anyone if we are to ensure that the consumer continues to prefer the european banana, the canary banana, to any other banana.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the spanish socialists in the european parliament always welcome acts, instruments and agreements which express the political commitment of the european union to latin america. and so we welcome the multilateral trade agreements, the trade agreements with colombia and peru, and their extension to ecuador. but, having said that, we attach great importance - and i certainly do - to the stabilization mechanism, and to the updating and improvement of the banana stabilization mechanism, which is what we call the banana in the canary islands. because we cannot ignore the fact that there are banana producers in the european union, in the outermost regions, and that bananas support some thirty thousand jobs in those outermost regions, seven thousand of them in the canary islands. it must therefore be made quite clear that the european union has a duty to inform this european parliament, through the commission, if the maximum volume of banana imports from this central american region is to be reached, but above all to maintain its early warning and its capacity to respond. because banana producers in the outermost regions are not simply looking for compensation here. they're looking for tools to defend themselves. to defend against breach of the terms of the agreement itself. and that requires early warning, informing this european parliament - that is what the improvements are - of any situation that merits attention, analysis, monitoring and annual review, if necessary, of the agreed terms and also the forecast of the compensatory response, if necessary. we therefore welcome an agreement which is environmentally friendly, which has clauses for inclusive regional growth and development in latin america, but we draw the commission's attention to the imperative need to strictly observe the terms of the banana stabilization mechanism, considering that it is a product of extreme sensitivity in the outermost regions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. this safeguard for canary banana products and producers which we adopted this week is a success of european policy. it is the result of a collective effort by the producers, the canary islands government and the members of the european parliament who work here - and of course our rapporteur, marielle de sarnez, whom i thank for her excellent work - to make a european voice heard. heard, even though it comes from the outer fringes. i would like to stress and acknowledge the sensitivity with which the canary islands' demands were received by the european commission and i am grateful for the work done by mrs malmström and her team, who have reached an agreement covering all the critical points to prevent the incorporation of ecuador into the trade agreement with colombia and peru from destabilising this european industry. i also express the gratitude of the canary islands institutions the ministry of agriculture, livestock and fisheries and the presidency of the government itself for the success of this collective work. i would like to conclude by expressing our commitment on behalf of the canary islands coalition and the government that presides over it to the protection of the primary sector in this outermost region. we are here to remind ourselves every day of the fragility of these producers in relation to third countries and to cooperate so that the union can be a useful framework of stability, support, encouragement and protection. we got it today.
mr president, commissioner, ecuador's accession to the free trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru is good news overall, as it contributes to the intensification of trade flows and investments between the parties. but we must not forget that ecuador is the largest exporter of bananas to the european union, and so strengthening the safeguard clause has been one of the priorities of this parliament to protect the banana sector in several peripheral european regions, including the canary islands. i welcome the outcome of the tripartite dialogue, whereby a good agreement has been reached, thanks in large part to the tenacity of mr mato. this tripartite dialogue includes our demands for the establishment of an early warning system, effective market monitoring and the possibility of compensatory measures for producers. i firmly believe that the agreement, together with the clause, is good news for the european union. the agreement also strengthens the union's position in the region, will promote economic growth and, with the clause, we protect the union's producers.
in writing. it is regrettable that, as a result of the lack of legislative initiative by this parliament, we have to take advantage of a technical proposal from the commission to introduce a demand as important for the banana producers of the canary islands as the strengthening of the safeguard mechanisms against imports. we support parliament's amendments, but we are still fundamentally opposed to the liberalization of trade, which is the root cause of the difficulties facing european production and which, by forcibly integrating the peripheral countries into the world market, condemns them to economic dependence on the large western transnational companies. we regret that the eu is only prepared to accept the strengthening of safeguard mechanisms as a counterpart to an aggressive trade policy which will unfortunately increase the difficulties faced by our farmers.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, my sincere thanks go to the rapporteur, ms engström, so thank you, linnéa, for the work on this report, along with the other shadows and their teams, who have worked hard to find a good compromise in relation to this commission proposal. the proposal on the sustainable management of the external fleets is of prime importance to reinforce the role of the european union as a key global actor in fisheries and in ocean governance. with the new rules, the commission aims to create a benchmark at international level regarding the management and the control of external fleets. i am pleased to see that the overwhelming majority of the amendments tabled follow this objective overall, and even reinforce the key elements of our proposal. the commission would therefore be favourable to these amendments as long as they do not lead to disproportionate administrative burdens for our member states and for our operators. the efforts deployed so far to simplify the text, reduce administrative burdens and improve the consistency and structure of the proposal could be of inspiration during the upcoming trilogues. in relation to the database i am confident we will be able to increase openness and transparency, while striking a good balance with respect for sensitive, personal and commercial data. in order to maintain the reputation of the eu’s external fleet, we need to ensure that only good conduct vessels and operators complying with the rules are allowed to fish outside eu waters. therefore, a clean record from sanctions for serious infringements in the last 12 months should be one of the conditions for a fishing authorisation. finally, as you know, the european union is responsible for the activities of its vessels operating outside eu waters, and that is why it is particularly important to allow the commission to withdraw the fishing authorisation of a vessel when the flag member state does not take action to stop that vessel from causing damage. the union has now become a strong global actor in shaping international oceans governance, and this has to be reflected also in our legislation and in our actions. i therefore trust that together we will manage to improve fisheries governance through better control and monitoring of our extended fleet. let me thank you once again for this report and for the fruitful upcoming discussion. we look forward to further working with parliament in a good spirit of cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. i think we have achieved a somewhat improved text by reducing the bureaucratic burden, especially in so-called private agreements, by introducing a fast track; the procedure for granting licences has also been changed, by allowing member states to control the process better. of course, there are also points with which i do not entirely agree, including the one on the union's fishing authorization register (article 39). the text adopted by the committee on fisheries seems to me to be excessive: it requires the publication of data which may infringe on the privacy of companies and cause them to disclose their business strategies. your original proposal, commissioner, seems to me to be much more balanced. my group supports transparency, but i do not think this regulation is the right one to regulate a horizontal matter. i would like to dwell on the so-called double penalty, that of article 5 (1), which i understand penalizes vessels without a licence which have been penalised a year before the request for authorization. we succeeded in removing this provision in the committee on fisheries, but now - as you can see - it is being brought back to the house with an amendment. this rule, which may prove counterproductive, would seriously harm the union's external fleet. due to their special characteristics, in many cases these vessels cannot be converted and fish in union waters. the paralysis of one year would imply unacceptable economic losses. it is also inconsistent with the basic regulation, which says that the european union must contribute to sustainable, economically viable and job-creating fisheries. and, moreover, this requirement does not apply to the fleet operating in union waters, thus creating a discriminatory situation. i therefore call for support for amendment no 30, which is the position adopted by the committee on fisheries. the commissioner, the fisheries legislation must also take account of its economic and social dimension. we cannot make it impossible for the european fishing fleet to fish in the waters of third countries, which will harm jobs, harm our businesses and favour the fleets of third countries, which are much less controlled and fish unsustainably.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the rest for the work they have done and say that the external dimension of the cfp requires the entire european fleet to comply with the same rules and operate on the same principles in and out of our waters. this regulation will improve the transparency, control and sustainability of the activities of the more than 700 european vessels fishing under agreements with third countries, under united nations law, through private agreements or by operating on the high seas. the first success is therefore to control the fleet regardless of its type of activity, to establish procedures against abusive flag changes and to authorise fishing rights only when there are surpluses not used by local communities. the second is to establish more and better control measures, such as the electronic register of european union vessels or the european supervision of authorizations. thirdly, the legal certainty it provides for all operators. however, we want the common eligibility criteria which must be required for the granting of licences to apply only to vessels and not to operators or masters. we want to avoid double sanctions for the fleet and operators of the states that have best applied the 2009 control regulation. since 2015, the commission owes us an evaluation report, but we know that not all member states impose the same sanctions for the same conduct. in this situation, the countries which have been less rigorous in their controls have the advantage in the commission's original proposal. i therefore propose to vote in favour of amendment no 30 (d) and also in favour of amendment no 48, because it is necessary to find solutions in favour of the agreements which are still pending.
mr president, i have to say... i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur and to all those who have spoken and, to mr affronte, simply to remind him that he has forgotten to say something which i think is important: that spain is a clear example in terms of control and in terms of having the most respectful fleet in the world. and that said, what for some are positive elements, for me i think can become absolutely distorting. we are talking about the obligation to have surpluses. we are talking about the public register, which, beyond transparency, is - as paco millán has very well said - violating the minimum principles of the strategy itself that operators can have commercially and the double sanction. i think we are putting so many obstacles in the way of the outer fleet - which is one of the fleets, i say, more sustainable and more respectful - that it seems that some people want to end it, and i think that is a tremendous mistake. the biggest example of this is, and i disagree with the rapporteur on this point, the double penalty. amendment no 30 i think we should vote for, clearly, among other things, because, you know what we can achieve? that countries which apply the un fisheries control regulation and regulations more strictly are being penalized. we are inviting countries to relax controls and sanctions. what's the point? to avoid double sanction and to avoid the issuing of licences being prevented. you have to be very careful. do we have to control it? i'm sure you do. should we punish him? i'm sure you do. but we cannot accept a double sanction that makes no sense.
mr president, as all those who have spoken before me have said, we are faced with an important regulation. i want to acknowledge the work of both the rapporteur, mrs engström, and the alternative rapporteurs. i think a great deal of work has been done and i think the result is balanced. the result. you can't win it all, mrs. engström, you can't win it all. i think that the result is quite balanced, considering that we are talking about an important regulation, with a fundamental significance, and i think that a balance has been achieved in this. there are some things i like more, like some people, and there are some things i like less. but as mr mato has said very clearly, the spanish fleet is an example of control and i do not like it when we talk about the foreign fleet, when we say that it is a fleet that is scraping everything. i think it's very lightly spoken about a lot of people who are behind this very serious and very hardworking. so let us stop criminalizing in general terms. there are people who do it right and people who do it wrong. and there are countries that control better and countries that control worse. in this case, we will have a good regulation which simplifies the current system, harmonises data requirements and clarifies the responsibilities of all the actors involved; it also gives greater coherence to all the regulations. so i think it is a balanced agreement. you can't win it all. let's give the outer fleet a good regulation, but one that can keep them working.
in writing. with the proposed amendment to the regulation on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets, europe has an opportunity to move away from unsustainable fishing practices. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common fisheries policy' to cover all fisheries, including the fisheries of the baltic sea. in a world in the process of shifting towards economies compatible with the conservation of natural resources, the fisheries sector cannot be absent, much less when it comes to eu-flagged vessels operating outside its waters. these vessels are the visible presence of the european union throughout the world and must maintain the high standards that the world expects of europe. we must therefore prevent vessels which have recently operated illegally from accessing fishing licences abroad. this eligibility criterion, designed to ensure that only vessels with a clean record can fish outside eu waters, is similar to the one followed in the european points system for serious fishing infringements.
the next item is the report by mr milan zver, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of regulation (eu) no 1288/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 december 2013 establishing the 'erasmus+' programme of the union for education, training, youth and sport and repealing decisions no 1719/2006/ec, no 1720/2006/ec and no 1298/2008/ec (2015/2327 (ini)) (a8-0389/2016).
please, gentlemen, please be quiet.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for their participation and remarks in the debate. both the critical and the supportive remarks are very useful to us in building up the project for the years to come and the upcoming multiannual financial framework. indeed, the erasmus programme, which started its career 30 years ago as a student mobility programme, transformed into a very complex programme with higher education aspects. it is no longer only about student mobility, but strategic alliances among higher education institutions, the exchange of ideas and best practices, and a strong and institutionalised cooperation among higher education institutions. it has a chapter on volunteering which can be very useful for young europeans to gain experience and skills in volunteering which can be used on the labour market. we have some funding programmes for sports, especially for grassroots sports, and we have projects in youth policy as well. this means that erasmus+ is today much more than a student mobility programme. it is a complex programme for the future because it not only helps young people to find their own place in today’s and tomorrow’s societies, but it also helps them to develop a complementary european identity which is not antagonistic to local, regional or national identities, but complements them. it adds to their personality and thereby hopefully helps european integration in this very critical period. there is, of course, a lot of room for improvement. that is why i thanked you for all the remarks which raised the issue of funding. the structure of the erasmus+ budget is an incremental one, which means that from 2017 until 2020, there is a 10% increase in the budget, which means wider opportunities in the future. i thank you for all the critical remarks on the administrative burden. we are working on simplifying procedures and it solutions. i understood mr jakovčić’s remarks on possible synergies. together with local authorities or regional authorities, i think that could be a good opportunity for broadening the social and geographical appeal of erasmus+ in the next period of the lifespan of that programme. all in all, erasmus+ is a success story. we have to protect all the achievements and to improve the structure and the outcomes of erasmus+. that is why we offer some additional policy instruments aimed at helping young people to use the best opportunities in erasmus+, for instance the student loan or the apprenticeship and traineeship programmes in erasmus+. in the future we would like to broaden its social appeal and we would like to make it more available for those people who come from social circumstances and a social environment which are not so fortunate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on the report by mr hannu takkula, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on an integrated approach to sport policy: good governance, accessibility and integrity (2016/2143 (ini)) (a8-0381/2016)
member of the commission. – thank you president. honourable members of the european parliament, we normally see sport as a vehicle for our health and well—being, but sport is more: it mirrors the values that our societies are built on, and in today’s polarised world, sport is also a tool for building bridges. since the european parliament’s report by santiago fisas ayxela back in 2011, the way in which sport is organised, watched, televised or gambled on has changed. this has important implications for the amount of money flowing into sport and sporting events, more specifically, and how this money is distributed. what is more, sport has never been as closely scrutinised as it is today, either through technology, social media or investigative journalism, and this has uncovered some home truths about sport. this is why this report is welcome. we have to readjust our focus to take recent developments into account. mr takkula, you and your shadow rapporteurs have gone to great lengths to recognise all these aspects precisely at a time when the topic of integrity is a top priority for the global sports movement and the public alike. let me assure you that the commission will continue its work to protect the integrity of sport. we strongly support the call to find a solution to unblock the signing and ratification of the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions. it is important that the eu and the member states who wish to participate can play a strong part in implementing the convention from the very beginning. good governance should be embedded within the culture of sport, become part of its dna, so that sport can continue to inspire us all. this is paramount not only to safeguard the integrity of sport and its credibility, but also to help sports organisations to do their work more effectively. that is why i launched an initiative in september last year inviting sports federations to sign up to, and put in practice, good governance principles. some have done so, but this can only be a first step. i will continue to urge all sports federations in the eu to stand up and be counted. your report also rightly highlights the importance that needs to be attached to accessibility. i fully support this focus and the call to ensure the sport is accessible to everyone. the commission is committed to helping to ensure that persons with a disability can participate in sport activities. the commission proposal for a directive harmonising accessibility in the eu – the so-called european accessibility act – will also contribute to this goal. sport can play a vital role in fostering social inclusion and help us build inclusive societies. it can provide positive role models to young people. it can make an important contribution to help integrate migrants in the eu. in fact, sport has the potential, matched by few other areas, to promote values such as tolerance, solidarity, respect and understanding between nations and cultures both within europe and beyond. the report also highlights the economic impact of sport, as well as its potential for providing young people with opportunities to develop skills – skills that enable them to find fulfilling work and become independent active citizens. this is of great importance to the commission. sport faces many challenges. to tackle them, we must all work together: sports organisations, the commission, member states and civil society. and we have to work across policy areas. we will continue to use all our instruments to support and encourage member states and sport bodies. the sport chapter of erasmus+ can play a key role here. indeed, the report suggests actions in many areas that we are already supporting through erasmus+. these include promoting grassroots sport, fighting match-fixing, fostering social inclusion, protecting young athletes and helping to preserve traditional sports. the report also comes at a time when member states and the council are discussing new priorities for their cooperation in this field and the structure of the next eu work plan for sport. your report will provide valuable input to these discussions. to conclude, this report identifies the same challenges and priorities that the commission is working on. i am very pleased to see that the european parliament is a strong ally supporting our work. i therefore very much welcome this initiative, and wish to thank mr takkula, in particular, for his commitment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
mr president, the measures announced by mr trump, such as the muslim ban, the construction of the wall with mexico or his statements on torture, are in direct conflict with human rights and it is important to give a forceful response, but without hypocrisy. we are glad that today you are raising your voice against trump, those who were silent when obama deported almost three million people, those who said nothing to the torture in guantanamo or those who seem to have no idea that the wall was started by mr. bill clinton. now the situation with trump is much worse, but maybe we wouldn't have gotten this far if he hadn't shut up then. and there are also those who try to take advantage of trump's brutality to hide their shame, like mr rajoy, saying that he is not in favour of vetoes or borders. mr rajoy would like to take a look around ceuta and melilla.
mr president, last week the president of catalonia explained to this parliament his government's determination that we in catalonia should vote on our political future by september at the latest. we will do it through an independence referendum. a referendum which, if it is agreed with the spanish state, will take place and, if not, will take place. because we have a democratic mandate which we do not intend to renounce and we will do so in a legal, legitimate, democratic and peaceful way, as is done in europe. while some try to intimidate the democratic process, threatening to seal polling stations and take our politicians to court, we remain steadfast on the path of democracy. from catalonia we want to contribute directly as a new member state to forging and strengthening this common area of freedom, progress, solidarity and justice that we want the european union to be. we will exercise democracy: we will vote, we will decide and we will stay in the european union to make it better.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. today i would like to bring to the house a story which began in barcelona and has reached lesbos. a catalan volunteer, who is in one of the refugee camps in this territory, asked her mother to send her all the thermal and mountain clothing she could collect, due to the very low temperatures they are experiencing. the mother started sending whatsapp messages to her friends and this message became a chain that has exceeded all expectations. the result, in a very few days: five trailers with more than a thousand boxes of clothes collected, which are already distributed in lesbos. this is a good expression, another one, i am sure, of the solidarity of europeans, but it is a radical counter to the inaction of the states. state governments are unable to find a solution that guarantees the rights of those fleeing the tragedy of war. we are all being called upon to help urgently. so, if the challenge for these families in barcelona that simply started with a whatsapp has crossed borders and become a reality in a few days, will not the states and other institutions, but above all the states, be able to help, rescue and take in the refugees?
mr president, two news items are coming out at the same time: on the one hand, a decision is being taken on whether the garoña plant in burgos should remain open for another 20 years; on the other hand, the construction of a nuclear waste repository at the almaraz nuclear plant in cáceres has been approved. portugal has already lodged a complaint and we hope that the european commission will take action against this nonsense. is that a coincidence? no further. these two news stories follow a common thread. they are following a strategy: the strategy of the popular party government to extend the life of the already aging nuclear power plant of the spanish state. autonomous governments, technicians, citizens' platforms and, of course, also from this house we will continue to oppose this serious threat; a threat led by a puppet government of the electricity companies; a government that wants to continue granting benefits to the oligopoly, but is not able to create a social bond that avoids deaths from energy poverty. as this sheet says, "garoña, not of coña".
mr president, i would like to echo an initiative by lgbt associations and trade unions calling on the spanish government to end the exclusion of people with hiv from public service. it is regrettable that public institutions perpetuate stigma and discrimination against this group, when they should be pioneers in defending the rights of people with hiv at work, as the ilo states in its recommendation no. 200. i ask for the european parliament's solidarity with this struggle, but i also ask the european union to act accordingly. the principle of non-discrimination is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights and the treaty on the functioning of the european union and we must use instruments such as the employment equality directive in a broad sense, in line with the united nations, to remove these barriers. we cannot allow outdated prejudices to persist in the legislation of the member states, contradicting one of the most fundamental rights of people living with hiv: the right to decent work without discrimination.
mr president, last week i was in tenerife to hold a number of meetings on environmental concerns which, unfortunately, are very common on the islands. one of the groups i met with was the canary islands platform for a sustainable territory, which is mobilizing to prevent further deterioration of the rich heritage that these islands have in their ecosystem. a new threat is looming over the canary islands in the face of the proposed land law and the misnamed 'green islands law', which we denounced to the european commission from the united left in this parliament a few months ago. the european commission itself has recognised that, despite the declaration of regional interest by the canary islands authorities, the projects must meet the protection requirements laid down by european environmental law. the european parliament will continue to be vigilant on this issue and the european commission has already opened an inquiry into these draft laws. i call on the canary islands government to rectify this. let us act from here, from the union. i also call for the precautionary principle so that we do not have to suffer further irreparable damage to the precious natural environment of the canary islands when, as always, it is too late.
mr president, i would like to speak on a subject which concerns one of the most serious forms of crime within europe, namely the smuggling of animals from the eastern part of the european union to western countries. the problem is the smuggling of hundreds of thousands of dogs and cats, so-called pets, and we have spoken several times in this house about the need to take action against this smuggling. i would like to call on the commission to speed up the preparatory measures discussed in plenary, to have more discussion and to prepare proposals for possible registers of dogs and cats. and for the law enforcement agencies to cooperate more at european level. i want to inform you that in our country, the czech republic, there is a draft veterinary law in parliament that is to introduce dog registration, which is to give clear conditions for chipping and for a public register. but if we do not tackle this issue at european level, then the measures taken in individual countries will only be half-hearted and we will not eradicate this form of serious crime on the european continent.
this closes this spot.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, fate has dictated that for the last 28 years, in some way or form, i have been a close follower of developments in romania, and if you see the progress made over that period of time, you can only be astonished by the force of the romanian people’s will to become a fully fledged european, democratic, open nation. this development was reflected in the recent report on the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm) which the commission published last week, where we had an overview of the progress of the cvm over the past decade. it was not a linear development: sometimes, elements went fast; sometimes they went a bit more slowly, but still the development was spectacular. we could say that romania is now in the final leg of this long, long marathon, heading to a situation where development towards the strengthening of the rule of law is irreversible, and that is the criterion the commission now applies. it should be irreversible and, in this context, what we have seen over the last couple of days is worrying. the emergency ordinance and the draft legislation pertaining to the fight against corruption cannot be interpreted as anything other than a step back from the progress we have seen in the last decade, and i would urgently call upon the romanian government to reconsider what they have done, both with the emergency ordinance and with the draft legislation. like any european nation, the romanian nation deserves politicians and governments who support the fight against corruption, who want to rid their societies completely of corruption. and the efforts made in romania – i must underline this – have been phenomenal, with really very good progress. so, why would you, in the final metres of a marathon, turn back and go in the other direction? i would like to call upon the government not to go down that road. and we have seen the protests in romania. we have seen the very clear worries expressed by the romanian judiciary on this. let them finish their job so that we can then come to the conclusion that developments are irreversible. the commission has a direct interest in all of this because the legislation, if it is adopted, could also affect the disbursement of european funds in romania, so we have to be very careful that we assess that. we will analyse the draft legislation and look into these matters, but today, for me, the most important thing is to make this political point to the romanian government: do not turn your back on this development. do not go the other way. continue. hold this course, however painful it might sometimes be, because you do it in the service of your population. all romanians deserve a country freed of corruption. and look at what has been achieved! do not ever forget that. let me end by referring to someone whom i regard as one of the biggest, most important romanians of the 20th century. sadly he has been dead for quite some time, but for me he reflects the european spirit of that great nation. it is paul celan. he was a romanian who spoke german. he was a jew, who lived in exile in paris. he was thus a true european, not by choice but by fate because first the nazi persecution then the communist oppression prevented him from staying in his native land. but he remained a european, living in paris, writing his poetry in german even in the 1940s, and believing in this european dream of european brotherhood. and he was a true son of the romanian nation. romania needs to take its place amid the european nations without being seen as in any way different. to achieve its dream it also needs to rid itself of corruption. it is almost there: the development is almost irreversible. so please, i say to the romanian government: do not take any steps in the other direction.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, as vice-president timmermans has just said, we are concerned about the decisions being taken by the romanian government. after 29 days in office, his priorities are to weaken the fight against corruption and reduce prison sentences for corrupt officials. the prosecutor general, the general council of the magistrature and even the president of the republic have called for these two excesses to be corrected and the romanian government is not listening to them. citizens are demonstrating in the streets all over the country and the romanian government is also ignoring them. don't let anyone get confused. the problem is not whether we like or dislike the laws passed by the government of a member state. the problem is whether these laws weaken the quality of democracy, the quality of justice, the quality of the rule of law. and that's what we're discussing this morning. nothing more, but nothing less. we are debating with full respect for romania's political and institutional sovereignty but at the same time with full responsibility. because this parliament also represents the 20 million romanians. the voice of the romanians has the same right to be heard in the parliament of strasbourg or the parliament of brussels as in the parliament of bucharest. ladies and gentlemen, on days like today it is worth remembering that belonging to the european union is not just about receiving funds and sharing borders. it is to assume a set of principles and values and, above all, a commitment to maintain them in the future. it is to assume that in europe, in europe, no one is above the law and to ensure that justice is exactly the same for everyone. it's assuming that crimes never go unpunished and that it's mandatory to prosecute them and bring them to justice. a government may have a parliamentary majority, but that doesn't mean it's not wrong, that doesn't mean it can do anything. in the rule of law, the force of the law is limited by the constitutional values that justify our coexistence. in the rule of law, the law cannot be unjust. in the rule of law, the law cannot be a trojan horse against democracy. you cannot govern so that there are first-class and second-class citizens or citizens who have to obey the law and others who can live outside the law. the action of the new romanian government - as mr timmermans has said - is throwing years and years of anti-corruption work into the wind, and encouraging impunity. and abusive behaviour can set romania back. this is a warning that is being sounded in the european parliament. the romanian government still has time to rectify, and we formally ask it to do so from the european parliament. in a democracy, things cannot be done any way and when you make a mistake, you have to know how to correct it. no government in the world is above the law. the laws are the people's and when the government acts against the people it loses the title that allows it to be called a democratic government. to govern in favor of corruption is to govern against democracy.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing our thanks to ms gabriel for the excellent job she has done. she was behind all these efforts in order to arrive where we are today. georgia has been exemplary in fulfilling a demanding roadmap which allowed us to propose to you – and the council of course – visa liberalisation for its citizens. i am therefore very pleased that georgian citizens with biometric passports will soon be able to travel to the schengen area without a visa for a short period of up to 90 days. it is a very important achievement indeed, and it has been a long process. the eu-georgia visa liberalisation dialogue, as you will remember, started in june 2012. the continuous monitoring and reporting carried out since then showed that georgia has made the necessary progress. georgia has undertaken all the necessary efforts to meet all of the benchmarks. therefore, following the positive assessment of the progress report, the commission proposed in march 2016 to lift the visa requirement for georgian citizens holding a biometric passport. this will be done by amending the visa regulation. this proposal also took into account overall eu-georgia relations. the hard work, really hard work, of the georgian authorities over the past two years has paid off. the commission will continue to monitor georgia’s continuous compliance with the visa liberalisation criteria, in particular on fighting organised crime. because, as i have said on other occasions, these reforms bring georgia closer to european union standards, facilitating cooperation with the european union and bringing the country a step forward on its european path. i would like to remind you that visa-free travel for georgia will enter into force at the same time as the revised suspension mechanism, even though they are two separate issues. in addition, the suspension mechanism applies to all visa-free countries horizontally, not just to georgia. it will be an important tool to further enhance security for the european union, but also a catalyst that will enable our visa liberalisation policy to expand. visa liberalisation with georgia is an essential contribution to strengthen cultural and economic ties between georgian and eu citizens because, let’s not forget, visa-free travel is a tangible tool of european integration that directly concerns the citizens. i would like to share personal experience with you. when i first visited tbilisi as european commissioner, i was very impressed by the many european union flags around the city – i would say more european flags in georgia than in brussels. i was touched, because in a period where we here in the european union, in the member states, take our union for granted and where we see anti-european rhetoric develop, the citizens of georgia remind us what a unique achievement of peace, stability and prosperity the european union is. dear members of the european parliament, let me conclude by calling on you to support the proposal on the table later during the vote.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs maríya gabriel, on her professional and dedicated work, and i congratulate the georgian people and authorities. as i have stated on many occasions, georgia has long been eligible for the visa waiver, as it fulfilled all the requirements of article 1 of regulation no 539/2001. i never understood the unnecessary linking of this file with others in negotiation. since may last year we have been working hard to improve the suspension mechanism, for which i am the rapporteur. i sincerely hope that the final approval of the mechanism, the correction we will make during the next plenary session, will serve to ensure the final entry into force of the visa waiver agreement we are discussing today. no one would understand any delay which would prevent its signing on 1 march, its publication beyond 9 march and its entry into force before the end of the same month. i therefore ask the presidency to make every effort to complete all the relevant procedures with the council for the final approval of both dossiers, their signature and their publication. this agreement will deepen and improve the reciprocal relations between georgia and the european union. as has been demonstrated in many other cases, it will have beneficial effects for both sides in areas as diverse as security, tourism, culture and defence, and above all it will bring georgia much closer to europe.
mr president, i have to say... we are presenting today a motion for a resolution plus an annex which seeks to fill a legal vacuum and to make detailed and very specific recommendations for the preparation of a regulation which can fill this legal vacuum and which can deal with the cross-border recognition of adoptions. there is no doubt that families in europe today move around and in many cases these families have adopted children. in some countries there are no problems, but in others there are problems, because in order to have a recognition between the adopted and the adopter, in some countries an additional judicial procedure needs to be established. it creates instability in families and it goes against all the rights of the child and against the hague convention itself. so what is being asked for here, and i think it is very right - and our rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka, has been, i think, a great push for this to come to light - is a clear legal framework which gives legal security, which provides the families of the children with a stable family. and for that purpose, minimum standards are proposed for adoption, greater cooperation is proposed, and the hague convention is also proposed to be respected, because everyone has signed it, but then there are problems in implementation. and finally, that this cross-border recognition of adoptions be automatic.
mr president, in the committee on petitions of this parliament we have received over 300 petitions over the years from individuals, from people who had problems with the adoption of minors, and in many cases simply because one country does not recognise an adoption ordered by a court or an administration in another country. that is why we are pleased to adopt this resolution today, which will require the council to provide the necessary legal instrument. but i also regret that we are not talking about the new family models that exist and that cannot be hidden. i lack the courage to talk about adoption by same-sex couples or by single people, to give an example. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is not, of course, about borders, bureaucracy or discrimination.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position on the question of the free movement of workers. the government is turning to the commission to introduce a reform that goes beyond the ecj ruling and eliminates the registration of dockers, in violation of ilo convention no 137 on port work, and collective agreements. we want to discuss with mrs bulc whether the commission considers that freedom of establishment is incompatible with ilo rules and therefore whether it would support a liberalisation of ports which would affect other member states such as finland, france, italy, romania, sweden, portugal and poland.
in writing. article 12 of the pesticide directive 2009/128/ec provides for the priority use of low-risk plant protection products in areas used by the general public and in protected areas. municipal gardens and suburban areas need to be freed from the pressure of chemical pesticides, which only add more pollutants to the environment where our children grow up. it is therefore essential and urgent to develop a regulation available to low-risk plant protection farmers. the efforts of small innovative companies that have produced low-risk pesticides of biological origin have failed in their attempt to gain access to the european market. currently, only seven products with this rating are available in an overwhelmingly synthetic chemicals-oriented market. this resolution will allow for specific action within two years, rather than a procedure which could take nearly ten years and which could end without any decision being taken. this would not benefit organic farmers or our habitable environments, or consumers who have the right to consume food products with the least possible risk.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, do we want a cooperation policy that is in line with the united nations' agenda for sustainable development? the european consensus on development must therefore be based on three points. first, to strengthen the coherence of development policies, because these policies cannot remain a watertight compartment. we must be transversal, understand that all our policies have an effect on the global south, that is, we must be coherent. for example, our trade and investment policies must stop impoverishing and focusing on the benefit of the few. we must strive for fair trade in line with human rights and for the benefit of all. we must also develop binding human rights frameworks, i.e. laws that ensure that everything that reaches european markets, for example, is not manufactured in exploitative conditions or bloodstained. as a second pillar, we must strengthen development finance. and here we say that it is unacceptable that we have not yet reached the historic commitment of 0.7%. we must also support fair, progressive and redistributive tax systems in a universal way and fight tax fraud once and for all. and finally, do not cheat the taxpayer, because official development aid has two objectives: one, eradicating poverty, and two, reducing inequalities. any other use, such as controlling migration flows or outsourcing border control, is misuse of public funds. and finally, i would like to thank mr wenta and mr neuser for their good work and their willingness to talk about this report.
mr president, i thank mr bogdan and mr norbert for the excellent work they have done to get the fight against poverty, inequality and human rights violations back on track, together with the commission and the member states, at the heart of the european union's overall strategy. poverty has been reduced in many parts of the world, but it persists in many others. however, inequality is growing almost everywhere and human rights violations are multiplying, even within our borders or in countries like the united states. so that is our goal, to fight for these three principles: against poverty, against inequality and for human rights. but we also need to put humanitarian action alongside development policy. increasingly, humanitarian crises are persistent and the logic of development is needed to address humanitarian action crises.
member of the commission. – mr president, when father christmas scrutinises the behaviour of the children, you can be sure that mr duncan’s conduct this year will be taken very seriously because, mr duncan, you have done excellent work, unbelievable work, and i congratulate you and all the co-rapporteurs who have worked on this exercise because you have delivered a very ambitious report. also, as you said, we live in crucial times for climate policies, and following the historic achievement of the paris agreement, the european union now needs to lead from the front. we need to deliver and put our commitments into a clear and binding framework. the commission has put several legal proposals on the table of the co-legislator, but the revision of the emissions trading system (ets) was the first and has been debated the longest. the heads of state and government agreed in 2014 that the ets is the european union’s flagship climate policy and it is now time to show our citizens, our businesses, our society and the world that we are serious about making the ets fit to meet our paris commitments and our 2030 climate and energy targets. we need to learn from experience and agree on a workable system that will do three things simultaneously: deliver the required emission reductions in a cost-efficient manner; protect vulnerable sectors in european union industry; and support the clean energy transition where most needed. this is the only way for the european union to be credible when we are discussing with china, south korea, mexico and other g20 countries about carbon pricing and carbon markets. this is the only way to lead by example, showing how to drive emission reductions at the least cost to the economy, creating new opportunities for jobs and growth through innovation, and maintaining a competitive edge in europe. parliament has been working on this important file for more than a year and i am pleased to see the report is scheduled for a vote on wednesday. forging agreement on the different aspects of the european union ets revision has been a very challenging task. i therefore again express my gratitude for the fine work undertaken by many of you present here this evening in parliament. multiple committees have been actively involved in the process. all views and angles have been discussed and weighed. the same topics are being discussed with member states in council. on some issues we can see signs of convergence between the co-legislators, which will be helpful in defining the final deal later on. the council is also busy working towards establishing its position, enabling it to enter into interinstitutional negotiations. i am convinced that the political momentum is there to take decisions that will enable both co-legislators to start discussions. we need to bear in mind three key aspects which the revised ets directive must deliver and i welcome the fact that parliament intends to send strong signals on all of these. firstly, we need to ensure that the ets is fit to deliver the emission reductions to honour our paris commitments, and parliament is sending a clear message on the need to strengthen the european union ets via the doubling of the feeding rate of the market stability reserve. i see the importance of considering measures to strengthen the eu ets which can ensure the carbon market functions and delivers the necessary emission reduction and innovation incentives. this is to restore the role we all want the ets to play. secondly, we want to continue to build on our success in preserving the competitiveness of our industry and avoid the carbon-leakage risk and parliament is enhancing in many ways the aspects of the commission proposal catering for our businesses. we see the merit of the overarching objective of these amendments. a notable aspect of this is the update of the benchmarks for free allocation. the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety keeps the architecture of the commission proposal with the flat rates and further enhances the role of verified data. it therefore rewards faster moving sectors by setting a maximum contribution and it ensures that the slower moving sectors also play their part by requiring a minimum contribution of 0.25%. last but definitely not least, we want to increase the innovative power of the european union ets as a driver for investment in low-carbon technologies, and parliament is discussing to send a clear signal on the need to boost the innovation fund for the benefit of european companies and to ensure that the modernisation fund spurs decarbonisation in lower-income member states. when looking at these funds we need to be mindful of their effects on member states auction revenues and favour elements that would bring the council and parliament together. thus parliament is on track to set a constructive agenda for the interinstitutional negotiations. i encourage members of the european parliament to be constructive and to take the final step on wednesday. this will give parliament a united and a strong voice in the negotiations with the council.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, the reform of the carbon market system leaves us with a bittersweet feeling. agria, on the one hand, because from the point of view of the development committee it has not included very important points for us, such as, for example, the complete review of the system in 2018 and, above all, a specific economic allocation for the international climate fund, because we know perfectly well that the countries of the south are those that have contributed least to climate change and those that are suffering the most. on the other hand, also something sweeter - i say only something sweeter - because the proposed reform at least proposes to abolish the free allocation of emission allowances for cement, and cleans up the so-called carbon leakage list by which companies can go outside europe to continue polluting. it is certainly not the dream agreement, but, as long as we do not accept the demands of the cement lobby, it is a first step in the right direction to comply with the paris agreement.
madam president, commissioner, in 2003 we adopted the emissions trading directive so that emission reductions could be made in a flexible, efficient way and without exposing our industry to unfair competition from third countries. this third element is particularly important in the mediterranean basin, which is much more exposed to maritime traffic and competition from third countries. to give you an example, we can put cement. the important thing is not to create comparative disadvantages between industrial sectors because of a design flaw in the system. i know that this is not an easy matter, but it is necessary that the same conditions, burdens and privileges exist for sectors which have to compete in the same economic field. the question of over-allocation is resolved in the report by a more dynamic mechanism of adjustment to production levels. i think that the cooperation between the itre and envi committees has been good. i would like to congratulate mr duncan and also thank mr belet for the great effort he has made within the epp group.
madam president, what we are debating today and voting on this week is the key to the vault of the system for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, polluting emissions. the cde should be an ambitious instrument to meet the objectives of combating climate change; it should serve as a stimulus for industries to develop cutting-edge technologies for reducing emissions; it should serve to reinforce european leadership in the fight against global warming. yes, all of that is true. but our duty is to promote rules that ensure a level playing field for the industrial sectors concerned; our duty is to promote economic activity, employment and the competitiveness of our industry, while encouraging its innovative capacity to reduce its emissions. so, ambition and balance. and that, of course, was the purpose of some of the amendments i tabled in the itre committee. if we recover any of them, we will also recover ambition and balance.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner, colleagues and the rapporteur for their cooperation. this report talks about many things – airports, state aid – and asks us, as in other years, for more financial and human resources for dg competition because there is a lot more work to be done. but i want to focus here on the google case because, seven years after the commission announced allegations of antitrust violations by google, we have a spent a lot of time on this. certainly, eu regulatory time does not correspond to the necessity and urgency of the companies in the real economy. i am aware, commissioner, that a lot of time was lost by your predecessor, mr almunia. these years of unproductive settlements, discussions and delays in the still-ongoing investigations have left competitiveness in the online search market severely damaged. but, at a certain point, a decision has to be made one way or another. that is why, in this report, we call on the commission to finish all google antitrust investigations. let me recall two recent facts. last december, foundem, the first complainant in the shopping case, had to close its shopping comparison website, and yelp also closed its european businesses. this is how the behaviour of google impacts on companies. ms vestager, may i suggest to you that your provisional decision, which i hope will come in the next weeks or months, should impose a record—breaking fine on google. you need to show companies that they cannot be rewarded for losing time because, in the last two years, google’s attitude and behaviour has caused more damage to complainant companies. when it comes to remedies, may i suggest that all companies sit down with their technological experts, together with the commission, to try to find non—discriminating future-proofed remedies. thank you very much. let me remind you that time helps monopolies and damages smes.
i am glad that agricultural issues are becoming central to this parliament's approach to competition policy. this has been a priority of our group from the beginning of the legislature: the fight against the oligopolies of distribution and the marketing companies, which make lucrative profits at the expense of food speculation and the exploitation of small farmers. as the report points out, closer monitoring of agricultural markets, with the involvement of representative organisations, is needed to curb the plundering of europe's countryside. we welcome the reference to the fight against fiscal dumping, the denunciation - once again on our own initiative - of the exploitation of the spanish preferential suppliers, or the need to combat the pharmaceutical oligopoly. but i think the report is too complacent. i am concerned that, blinded by the fight against tax agreements - which are limited, for the moment, to a handful of companies and which have not required political accountability from mr juncker or mr dijsselbloem - we are whitewashing the reality of a policy which, today as yesterday, was designed to deregulate and privatise markets, leaving it to big business, and not the public sector, to define the future of strategic sectors. the single market has become a prison for social rights, privatising and deregulating railways and ports, opening the way to digital operators like airbnb or hoover, or protecting the speculation of the big electricity operators.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their very substantial comments. unfortunately i will not be able to give each and every one an individual answer. one of the important things for me is for our rules to be an enabler. for instance, when mr schwab calls for tourism in state aid we will be more than happy to give guidance on where state aid is absolutely allowed, where it is no economic activity but allowing people to be acquainted with the region, to know what to do to find the businesses who do have the economic activity. that, i think, is the important thing. i also very much look forward to the debate with the committee on agriculture and rural development because i think that we can meet one other to ensure jointly that we have a very competitive sector in which we use the means of competition and, at the same time, allow for a more balanced approach in sectors where many, many small suppliers are facing very heavy-duty negotiators on the other side of the table. i look forward to addressing these issues. some of you have mentioned the tax issue. it is, of course, obvious that every member state is sovereign in setting the level of their corporate taxation. if we want european tax legislation it will be through the front door, via the council, with unanimity. in the same treaty that gives member states the serenity to set their own tax level, we have very strong rules that say you cannot give a company, or group of companies, selective advantages. selective advantages, paid for by taxpayers, ruin fair competition and, in particular, do not give small and medium-sized businesses a fair chance of making it in the market. therefore, obviously, the commission will also continue its work in relation to fiscal aid – a.k.a. tax and state aid. some of you have been asking about the ongoing merger control procedures in two of three mergers in seeds and pesticides, or ‘crop protection’ as they call it. we will, of course, be as firm and as insistent as always to make sure that we have competition in this sector both for seeds and for pesticides. this is the very basis of our food chain and obviously we need competition there as well, and we will thoroughly investigate these mergers, including that of bayer and monsanto if we are finally notified of this. on the google case, i very much appreciate the insistence, because these are important cases. we are dealing with fast-moving markets and, as was mentioned, we have companies which suffered while the investigation was ongoing. therefore, we are doing our utmost to deal with the responses that we now have had to the statement of objection, and to examine them in detail to make sure that we give this company, like others, the right to defend itself, because that is important. as was mentioned, there is, of course, also a need for checks and balances when it comes to the commission competences in enforcing competition law, and for the court to be able to overrule our decisions. therefore, our work should be thorough and expert, while, of course, speed is a very important challenge for us, precisely because, as was mentioned, these are fast-moving markets. last but not least, we hope that the digital single market will not keep being mentioned as a separate part of the single market, but will come to be seen as a fully integrated part of the single market, because it offers a lot of choice for consumers. as you may know, we have opened three new cases in the field of digital business in order to make sure that every business has a fair chance of making it. these are in video games – part of the holiday business – and our aim is to make sure that consumers get the choice they should have. i will leave the detailed comments for now, but i assure you that we are using our best efforts to enforce competition law, and i very much take on board the things mentioned today – in particular by the rapporteur and in terms of the draft report’s recommendations for our future work.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner vestager, i would like to express my sincere thanks to the alternative rapporteurs, their assistants and the political group advisers, because they have helped to take this report much further than i originally intended. it's been a great joint effort for equal rights. when we talk about gender inequality, we tend to think about the skyrocketing pay gap, the ridiculous presence of women in decision-making positions, or the great scourge that we are ashamed of: gender violence, whether physical or psychological. but we rarely think about how this inequality affects our daily lives, our well-being, our health and especially our mental health. did you know that biomedical research and clinical trials on drugs and treatments don't take into account that half the population is female? that they don't take into account the biological, physiological and psychological differences between men and women, beyond their reproductive systems? i became aware of this problem some time ago when, on a visit to a hospital, a nurse told me of her experience. hospital staff were concerned because they could not understand why so many patients who had survived a heart attack returned to the hospital after a year and died shortly thereafter. the same hygienic conditions, the same tracking mechanisms -- medical history, family history, other risk factors had been taken into account. but it took them a while to realize that most of the patients who relapsed and died were women, because cardiovascular disease is more common in women than in men, and previous research lacked that approach. mental health is a very well-observed problem. there are considerable gender differences in patterns of mental illness, especially the most common ones: depression and anxiety, for example, mood disorders that any of us knows firsthand, have a prevalence almost three times higher in women than in men. one in ten workers in the european union, for example, has taken a leave of absence for depression, which costs some 92 million euros a year. mental health is also linked to employment and investment. the report we are debating today boldly addresses these and other equally relevant issues, such as the devastating and lifelong effects that gender-based violence has on the mental health of victims, the prejudices that still exist about lgbti people and that condemn them to deteriorated mental health, or the urgent need to implement the guidelines on protecting and supporting the mental health and psychosocial well-being of refugees, asylum seekers and migrants in europe. but when we talk about gender equality and health, it's imperative that we talk about abortion openly. conscientious objection by doctors cannot endanger the health and freedom of a woman who requests a voluntary termination of pregnancy. it is simply unacceptable that in italy, for example, more than 70% of doctors refuse to practice it today, despite being protected by law. we want to ensure that there is a minimum number of health professionals available to carry out these medical interventions, guaranteeing access to sexual and reproductive health services in all countries of the union in accordance with the legal standards in force. the european union is bound by its treaties to ensure the protection of human health as part of all its policies and to work with the member states to improve public health, prevent disease and eliminate sources of danger to physical and mental health. in short, it is the legal and social responsibility of all policy-makers to fully integrate the specific needs of women, half the population, in defining public health and health-care services policies at european and national level.
madam president, last saturday's actions around the international day of women and girls in science brought to light a real thing: the gender gap in research. i mean, the universal pattern for research is the young white male. that is why we greens consider this report essential to reduce gender inequality. but as a member of the committee on development, i would like to stress that we must go further, from a north-south perspective. first, investing in research and development on a global scale is necessary to achieve universal health coverage. secondly, we need to require transnational pharmaceutical companies to respect human rights when conducting clinical trials. and third, we need to reduce poverty, ensure access to education and social protection to end the gender gap in mental health once and for all.
madam president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr de jong, and to point out to the commissioner - who i know is also particularly sensitive to these issues - that just as we have lobbyists' registers and also the code of conduct for commissioners - which could be improved, but which have served as an example and a guide for the member states which are lagging behind - we also need a code which protects and gives a legal framework to whistleblowers at european level, which would be the mark and the guide so that, in national areas - for example in my country, where there are and where there are real hardships and situations, very conflicting ones - we could at least serve as a guide to give them that protection. so: legal framework, of course, for these whistleblowers, with their rights and with the obligations as well. but above all, a legal framework that would give them protection at the moment when they enter a kind of limbo where they lose their jobs, they are in a really terrible psychological situation... and of course, all the help to the common good and the common interest that they are carrying forward is beyond appreciation, and they must be protected. please, madam commissioner, help us with that.
madam president, commissioner, the spanish nuclear safety council has approved a report in favour of the reopening of the oldest and smallest nuclear power station in spain, santa maría de garona. the report acknowledges that the plant has not implemented the mandatory safety upgrades after the fukushima disaster. nor have the obligations on transparency laid down in the nuclear safety directive been met, as the president of the provincial council of álava has denounced here, which seriously compromises the safety of the citizens living in the area of influence in the event of a possible accident. the commission has also not received the investment plans for the plant, which is in complete breach of the euratom treaty. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources and does not adversely affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. the european union has obligations and arguments to join the institutions and the citizens in their resounding 'no' to this incomprehensible decision.
madam president, i would like to bring up here today the situation of shellfishermen and shellfish farmers in the galician lagoons who see how the frequent events in the areas where they work - the death of shellfish, the pollution of the waters and the accumulation of sludge - threaten their jobs. the sources of pollution are diverse: the pulp mill in pontevedra, the san finx mine in lousame, but also the malfunctioning of waste water treatment plants or the failure to carry out the necessary cleaning and sanitation projects. the villages of ferrol, noya and pontevedra are just a few examples. we call on the european commission to oblige the galician and spanish authorities to take all the necessary measures to put an end to this situation and to ensure that the galician rivers are cleaned up and rationalised once and for all and that urban waste water is properly collected and treated. economic penalties are useless, the people pay. make them do the sewage.
mr president, i believe that we are living through one of the most difficult times in the european union. i think we can all agree on that. we are talking about the future of europe because we have to re-shape the union; i think that is also obvious. some of us in this house express an idea which we call, i do not know if naively, 'federalist' europe. i feel like a federalist. i know others aren't. i know that there are many people in many countries of the european union who want less europe. but now we have to get out of the crisis that we are in by solving brexit, solving the migration crisis, solving the economic crisis, managing the euro. and all this is what is required now by a europe which is able to give the necessary answers to the problems. i believe that rather than discussing more europe, we must discuss honestly the best possible europe, the europe we can and must make today. it is a europe that must, without doubt, be more social in the response it gives to many citizens on the management of the economic crisis. it is a europe that solves its migration crisis. it is a europe that is able to cope with the very difficult brexit negotiations and that does not encourage other countries to want to leave too. it is a better europe. it is a europe which i would like to see federal, but it is a europe which must respond as it did in the best of times. as in maastricht, as in amsterdam, as in lisbon, making europe possible for those who want a stronger europe.
mr president, this three-part report comes at a time of crisis in the european union, as has been said before. the construction of europe has never been easy; it has never been easy to articulate the values and interests of the many citizens who make up the european union. in the face of the dark face of economic globalisation, the humanitarian problems which we have not been able to solve because of the selfishness of the states, the problems of the institutions and the emergence of a nationalist populism which has no regard for what is in our interest in the medium term, this parliament must take a clear stand as soon as possible. and it does it imperfectly, but it does it, it tries to do it. it is trying to take its role before the citizens through the three reports project. and this is the fundamental point, because resignation is a form of tolerance in the face of what can destroy the european union: savage populism and inconsistency in the response to the great problems of the time. we are trying to rise to the challenge of what needs to be solved in these times of globalisation.
the question of the 'blue card'. you just said, on behalf of the european citizens, that they don't want regulation. what citizens are you representing? because european citizens are very clear that they want european standards of consumer protection, social protection standards, environmental protection standards and even more and better regulation. that is why i ask you which citizens you are referring to when you say that you do not want european regulation.
mr president, institutional design foreshadows the future of organizations and makes their survival difficult or guaranteed. the crisis has shown that the european union is, in its institutional design, full of inadequacies and full of dysfunctions. the reports we are discussing today make concrete proposals to solve many of these design problems. but above design is the adherence, the support of citizens to a specific project and its future. and that support is weak for the european union today and can only be strong if the union is able to solve the needs of its citizens with european decisions. this requires a consistent budget: to grow, to distribute better, to guarantee freedoms, to bring about convergence and to be in solidarity with the rest of the world.
mr president, europe needs a federal re-foundation, european sovereignty and institutions which, by applying the principle of subsidiarity intelligently, translate it into democratic legitimacy, budget and objectives, and succeed in using the advantages of the single area to promote more and better jobs, to consolidate our social model and to make industry and the circular economy the basis of growth. that requires policies with capital letters, such as the one which led to the integration of the former east germany into our union or the one which paved the way for the peace programme in northern ireland. in this endeavour we have the credibility and track record of nations like euskadi, which have never lived by managing borders, against those who block solutions in the council and nationalise everyone's successes and europeanise their own failures. that is why we are advocating without complex amendments against fiscal competition between member states, in favour of a shared minimum for our social model, to guarantee the financial independence and sufficiency of the european commission or to give way to causes which are going to be presented to us, for example in scotland, which can also help some states which refuse political solutions to their own diversity.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be much shorter than two minutes. i would like to publicly and sincerely thank the rapporteurs for their contribution to this report. it has been a real privilege to work together to fulfill our mandate. i just want to point out one thing that this report is talking about and that this report is for. it is called endometriosis, a disease that affects only women, one in ten women, probably more than 30 in this house, 25 million european women. it's a chronic, debilitating, painful disease, and we don't yet devote enough research resources to it. and besides, it's not even properly diagnosed and, of course, there's no specific treatment. i just want to point out that in this report we talk about endometriosis. and that alone, to point out, to commit to those 25 million girls and women, makes this report worthwhile. and i dedicate my vote to them.
mr president, mr commissioner, look: someone should clarify what exactly the negotiations and the blockade of these days are about. if it's about meeting the memorandum and the conditions, we came from the ignominious memorandum we came from. but i have to say that the european commission's own forecasts give a primary surplus of two points, well above the target; we have interannual growth figures which are much better than what was thought in any scenario, and i do not know how many more reforms greece has to make. in that scenario, i think that... i don't know how you can argue that you can't get to the close of the second review. unless we are talking about something else, because if there is any government in the euro zone that is thinking not of getting greece out of the crisis, but of provoking elections in greece or of kicking greece out of the euro zone, let it say so clearly so that we know in what terms we are in the debate. but if it is a question of getting greece ahead, please do the honour of being responsible and do the honour of closing the second review of the programme on 20 february.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first i would like to thank the honourable members for today’s discussion. i think it clearly showed that the broad majority in this house shares the commission’s view that we need to move towards the completion of the second review of the greek programme without undue delay. the question raised by mr bullmann and reiterated by several other colleagues is this: what exactly prevents us from doing so right now? i would say that there are some elements. first, agreement is clearly within reach, so if all sides make the final push, we can do it in a short time. on the fiscal pass: as i said, greece has overperformed on the 2016 fiscal targets and is on track to meet the target of 1.75% primary surplus this year. a small gap remains as regards reaching a 3.5% primary surplus in 2018, but measures have already been pre-identified which could cover a substantial part of this gap. on structural reform implementation, once again substantial progress has been made. there are some outstanding issues, but certainly with a push from the greek authorities, those can be closed very quickly. the issue we are currently discussing is to ensure imf participation in the programme, because, according to the esm treaty, we work in liaison with the ecb and, wherever possible, in close cooperation with the imf. we also know that the imf has a more cautious growth and fiscal forecast with regard to future greek performance, and correspondingly a certain gap is emerging vis-à-vis the european institutions’ and imf forecasts. so we are also working to bridge that gap, but once again, if there is a push and a constructive attitude from all sides, it is certainly doable. with the current state of affairs with the greek economy finally recovering, and with quite a strong rebound expected in the economy this year, it would be a shame now not to make this final push and keep the programme on track. so the commission will continue to work to ensure that the programme is on track, that we reach an agreement, and that we can ensure that the greek economy is finally returning to sustainable economic growth and job creation.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. the eurogroup should act responsibly in its management of the financial assistance programme for greece. it is not possible that every two years the membership of the hellenic republic in monetary union is called into question in the context of the examination of compliance with cross-compliance. in particular, such conditionality must stop emphasizing the reform of the labour market in a regressive way and setting unrealistic budget balance targets, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and fragile economic growth will be damaged. the proposals to increase the repayment periods of the programme and to reduce the interest rate on the loan are also welcomed.
in writing. the eurogroup should act responsibly in its management of the financial assistance programme for greece. it is not possible that every two years the membership of the hellenic republic in monetary union is called into question in the context of the examination of compliance with cross-compliance. in particular, such conditionality must stop emphasizing the reform of the labour market in a regressive way and setting unrealistic budget balance targets, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and fragile economic growth will be damaged. the proposals to increase the repayment periods of the programme and to reduce the interest rate on the loan are also welcomed.
in writing. the eurogroup should act responsibly in its management of the financial assistance programme for greece. it is not possible that every two years the membership of the hellenic republic in monetary union is called into question in the context of the examination of compliance with cross-compliance. in particular, such conditionality must stop emphasizing the reform of the labour market in a regressive way and setting unrealistic budget balance targets, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and fragile economic growth will be damaged. the proposals to increase the repayment periods of the programme and to reduce the interest rate on the loan are also welcomed.
in writing. the eurogroup should act responsibly in its management of the financial assistance programme for greece. it is not possible that every two years the membership of the hellenic republic in monetary union is called into question in the context of the examination of compliance with cross-compliance. in particular, such conditionality must stop emphasizing the reform of the labour market in a regressive way and setting unrealistic budget balance targets, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and fragile economic growth will be damaged. the proposals to increase the repayment periods of the programme and to reduce the interest rate on the loan are also welcomed.
in writing. the eurogroup should act responsibly in its management of the financial assistance programme for greece. it is not possible that every two years the membership of the hellenic republic in monetary union is called into question in the context of the examination of compliance with cross-compliance. in particular, such conditionality must stop emphasizing the reform of the labour market in a regressive way and setting unrealistic budget balance targets, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and fragile economic growth will be damaged. the proposals to increase the repayment periods of the programme and to reduce the interest rate on the loan are also welcomed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the deteriorating situation in eastern ukraine (2017/2562(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you for organising this debate at a delicate moment for ukraine and i have this opportunity, as you already indicated, to participate and step in on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, since she is unfortunately indisposed. let me stress from the outset that all the european union institutions are focusing constantly on the situation in ukraine. presidents juncker and tusk met last week with prime minister groysman and commissioner stylianides will travel next week to the eastern part of the country. the eu foreign ministers focused once again on ukraine during the latest foreign affairs council on 6 february and high representative mogherini recently met with president poroshenko and with deputy prime minister klympush-tsintsadze, and after the exchanges in the mini plenary in brussels i am glad that this plenary session offers yet another opportunity to discuss this issue with you. ukraine remains at the top of our agenda, because the illegal annexation of crimea and the destabilisation of eastern ukraine challenge the foundations of our international system and the security of our continent. but also and foremost because we must urgently stop the suffering of our ukrainian friends. the deaths of innocent civilians trapped in a conflict area are unacceptable. and the upsurge in fighting in the avdiivka area has claimed the lives of numerous people on both sides. hundreds of civilians have been forced to leave their homes. critical infrastructure ensuring the delivery of water, electricity, heating and gas has been affected and many civilian homes have been damaged. the dire humanitarian situation has been worsened by the current harsh winter conditions. today, the level of fighting has decreased somewhat. the citizens and the authorities of ukraine have mobilised, together with humanitarian actors. this has helped prevent a humanitarian catastrophe. however, let us not forget that since the beginning of the conflict more than 10 000 people have died. tens of thousands have been injured and over 3.8 million people remain in need of humanitarian assistance. next week commissioner stylianides will travel close to the contact line and deliver a strong message of european support to the local population. we should all put pressure on all the relevant actors to respect the ceasefire, grant access for humanitarian actors to the areas not under the control of the government and ensure the free movement of people and goods across the contact line. the tireless efforts of the organization for security and co—operation in europe (osce) special monitoring mission and the special representative of the osce chairmanship in office were key to avoiding a more serious crisis. they have our constant and full support, along with our support to the efforts undertaken within the normandy four format. after two-and-a-half years we still see that the minsk agreements have not been fully implemented. a high number of ceasefire violations, views of proscribed weapons including artillery and tanks, restrictions on the osce’s monitoring activity and lack of progress on the disengagement of forces and military hardware continue to be reported on a daily basis. there are still many hostages and illegally detained persons awaiting release. a reverse positive trend is needed. the granting of full, safe and unhindered access for the osce special monitoring mission and then ensuring full humanitarian access in accordance with international humanitarian principles must be a priority. we have said this and will continue to underline it. russia bears a direct responsibility in helping to achieve a solution to the crisis. we will continue to call on russia to use its considerable influence over the separatists it backs to meet the minsk-related commitments in full. we also remain deeply concerned about information on the presence of russian military equipment and personnel in separatist held areas. on 3 february federica mogherini had a phone—call conversation with the russian foreign minister, sergey lavrov, where she stressed precisely the need to ensure an immediate and complete ceasefire to pave the way for the implementation of the other parts of the minsk agreements, including the political strand. ukraine was also at the core of the high representative’s talks with the new us administration last week in washington. she took the opportunity to state once again the european union’s common position, including on sanctions. we do not see sanctions as an objective but as a tool. we have repeated time and again that when the minsk agreements are fully implemented the related sanctions will be removed. this also means that as long as the agreements are not implemented the sanctions will remain in place. consequently, the high representative also discussed with her american interlocutors how to best support the implementation of the minsk agreements. the european union stands ready to step up its support for the implementation and we have increased our financial and technical support to the osce special monitoring mission. we are preparing a substantial new programme for government controlled areas near the contact line and we want to support economic development, social cohesion and job creation. this will be followed up in the 2018-2020 financial assistance programme to prepare the ground for larger reconstruction efforts once the conditions allow for them. at the same time we consider the new government action plan for citizens in non-government-controlled areas as a major step forward. we are accompanying ukraine’s reform agenda seven days a week, particularly on the social and economic measures, and in the fight against corruption. the latest foreign affairs council showed once again a strong consensus on continued european support and i am sure that we can count on this parliament’s political backing for our efforts. the people of ukraine need the european union to be at their side to help end the conflict, of course, but also to show that a better country is already in the making with tangible improvements, better services and a better and brighter future for all of ukraine.
mr schaffhauser, without wishing to get into a polemic, without wishing to get into a polemic (it is not my job, of course, nor is it my place to do so from the position in which i am now), i will simply say two things. firstly, you demand that speakers and members observe their time; you have exceeded your time by 40 seconds. the second point is that the generosity of the person who presides over a plenary session is also part of parliamentary practice over time.
i am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but this is not part of the debate.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2014 the territorial integrity of ukraine has been violated by the annexation of crimea and by support for separatists in the east of the country. this situation has worsened in recent weeks, coinciding precisely with the inauguration of the president, the new president of the united states. ukraine cannot become a new frozen conflict, a place where international law is being violated and where international peace, security and stability are being jeopardized. the citizens of ukraine have made it very clear, through the orange revolution and the euromaidan, what link they want with the european union. the european union must support ukraine through the association agreement, through support for macroeconomic reforms, through macroeconomic and financial aid, and it will only be credible, mr tannock reminded us, if the european union speaks with one voice in harmony with the atlantic alliance, and if it mobilizes all its efforts to restore ukraine's sovereignty, viability and territorial integrity.
madam president, three years ago i was on the maidan, joining those who were crying out for europe with a clear voice and hands raised. then i saw the corpse of a man, wrapped in the european union flag, passing in front of me. he had been murdered, and he had given his life for wanting to belong to the european union. with his spirit in mind, i would like to remind you that our european union is the dream of freedom, a dream which we enjoy every day, but which for ukrainians is not a reality. for them, the reality is the latest offensive on avdiivka, the one that has destroyed 144 homes leaving so many people, at 22 degrees below zero, without electricity, without water, without food, without shelter. ukraine is trying to reform to european standards and this is costing civil society great efforts. but ukrainians need to look to the sky and breathe. if only missiles continue to fall from the sky, destroying their homes, their dreams and their lives, they will not be able to move towards a better future. we cannot allow the ceasefire in the minsk agreements to be violated and russia to continue to violate it. i therefore want to express to the representative of mrs mogherini, madam president, my support for the high representative to stand firm in the face of this sanction.
madam president, we are discussing another example of the disastrous policy of destabilization. we see it every day in libya and syria, and now in the heart of europe, with almost total war. well, here's just one of the sightings, but there are sources that speak of a massive attack by the ukrainian army just as poroshenko was visiting germany. if this is true - it may not be - what was it looking for? perhaps to condition the european union or germany? look, i believe that neither sanctions nor the search for a single culprit nor, of course, that likely incorporation of ukraine into nato - which would lead us to a worse scenario - would bring the solution. the political agreements reached in minsk - constitutional reform, decentralisation and local elections - must be further developed. if there is no will to do so, the diplomatic blockade will grow, the economic failure of ukraine - no matter how much credit the imf grants, which is basically a boomerang against its population - and the war will intensify.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the middle east is one of the black holes of international politics. i think that the european union should not hesitate, should not question its policy towards the region simply because of new developments in the united states. i believe that we must pursue the objective of two independent, sovereign, viable states coexisting in peace and respecting each other, and i believe, madam president, that any decision which frustrates that objective is not on the horizon of peace but simply complicates it. israel is proud to be a democratic state and that is why we are eager to hear the supreme court's decision on the legality or otherwise of this settlement law. in the meantime, i think we must be vigilant, i think we must be consistent with our policy and, in these difficult times, not complicate and not frustrate the long, difficult and tortuous road to peace. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i think it is clear that it is up to us, mr president, to determine our own policy and up to the americans to determine theirs. that does not mean that we have to waver from the consistent line - and that is what i have maintained in my speech - of the traditional policy which, since oslo, the european union has been pursuing. i therefore believe that we must take note of the circumstances of reality and continue to move forward in accordance with the consistency that our principles dictate.
madam president, i share the need for the european union to keep on the course, and the course we have set is that of peace. and for peace, we have defined the need for a two-state solution. the problem, which we are here to denounce, is that this practice of the israeli government is going to make the two-state solution de facto impossible and, therefore, the road map of the european union is not going to be able to stand. that's the problem. the problem is that legalizing these settlements is nothing more than opening up the possibility of the permanent occupation of the west bank and thus preventing the two-state solution, which is precisely the solution that the european union supports. that's the problem. so, mr salafranca said, we are taking note. we note and condemn the fact that settlements are being legalized, which are condemned by the entire international community. that is, israel has already begun to legislate on territory that is not its own. what do i care about? that the advance of this policy makes peace impossible. that's what we should all be worried about. i do not want to maintain an equidistant position in any way, because i believe that the palestinian people are the people who are primarily oppressed by an occupier. i will not fail to condemn the terrorist attacks on israeli civilians, but there is no doubt that netanyahu's policy is leading us into a dead end: it is always a policy of facts that just blocks the road to peace, and the person responsible at this moment is mr netanyahu. in the knesset some members have risen up against this policy of regularizing settlements. that shows that there is a different position in israel too, which fills us with hope.
mr president, the middle east peace process is going through a very difficult time. the settlement policy in the west bank makes it difficult to resume negotiations and also threatens the viability of the two-state solution. the distance between the parties has been increased by settlements which are unfortunately increasing in recent times, in defiance of the calls of the international community. suffice it to point to the recent security council resolution 2334 and also the advice even from the trump administration itself. the european union cannot ignore this situation. we must play an active and constructive role by talking, by intensifying contacts with the parties and also our contacts with the quartet, the un, the trump administration and the arab countries. i'm finished. international encouragement and support cannot replace direct negotiations. the will of israelis and palestinians will ultimately be required to achieve a just, lasting and comprehensive solution based on the principle of two states, a solution - i must remind you - which is not to the detriment of anyone but, i believe, to the benefit of both parties.
mr president, settlement building is contrary to international law and has therefore been clearly condemned in un security council resolution 2334, without the veto of one of its permanent members, the united states, which means a great deal. in practice, it predetermines the impracticability of the two-state solution, and this is the most serious of all. and that is why it is essential to speak clearly to the netanyahu government, not only because its policies have drifted towards the ultra-orthodox and ultra-nationalist right, which, through a policy of fait accompli, denies the policy necessary to re-establish bilateral dialogue with the palestinian authority and perpetuates the situation of occupation of the palestinian territories, but above all because it harms the cause of the european union's friendship with the jewish communities in europe and also the cause of the european union's friendship with the state of israel. it is essential that the european union sends out an unequivocal signal of rejection of these settlements in the association council of the european union with israel and therefore we socialists have insisted very strongly that mrs mogherini has all the authority to send out that clear message of rejection of the settlement policy which she has been practising as a fait accompli.
mr. president, we ended 2016 with a united nations security council resolution that sent a very clear message to israel and called the settlements that were taking place in the west bank illegal. well, we have seen the response of the netanyahu government: an intolerable law that violates international law, that retroactively legalizes settlements in the west bank and that makes the only solution to the conflict - the two-state solution - impossible. a government, that of netanyahu, which is held hostage by extremists and which today is faced with a mirage like that of having trump, another extremist, in the white house. their new relations with the white house will only mask the isolation that israel is experiencing from the international community, from the rest of the countries. that is why the european union has to use its tools - the association agreement, labelling on products made in the occupied zones - to put pressure on the parties and find a safe and lasting solution for peace in the area.
in writing. our group has succeeded in getting the right wing of parliament to return to its title on the situation in the west bank, including settlements although its majority has insisted that a resolution cannot be debated and adopted. we are alarmed by the situation in the west bank. even more so after the newly elected us president's position ruling out a state in palestine. israel is doing nothing to help peace in the middle east or to bring about a final solution to the conflict with palestine. from imposing an armed presence in another country and imposing controls on the movement of people in another country; from erecting a wall to separate lives and hopes in another country, israel is now legislating on foreign territory. that is unacceptable. the law regularizing israeli settlements on palestinian land paves the way for the annexation of the west bank and "gradually" destroys the two-state solution. in the last 20 days, israel has authorized 5,800 illegal settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. the way of colonization, illegal expansion, discrimination, exclusion and the facts of life has brought israel to the brink of a new conflict.
in writing. our group has succeeded in getting the right wing of parliament to return to its title on the situation in the west bank, including settlements although its majority has insisted that a resolution cannot be debated and adopted. we are alarmed by the situation in the west bank. even more so after the newly elected us president's position ruling out a state in palestine. israel is doing nothing to help peace in the middle east or to find a final solution to the conflict with palestine. from imposing an armed presence in another country and imposing controls on the movement of people in another country; from erecting a wall to separate lives and hopes in another country, israel is now legislating on foreign territory. that is unacceptable. the law regularizing israeli settlements on palestinian land paves the way for the annexation of the west bank and "gradually" destroys the two-state solution. in the last twenty days israel has authorized 5,800 illegal settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. the way of colonization, illegal expansion, discrimination, exclusion and the facts of life has brought israel to the brink of a new conflict.
in writing. our group has succeeded in getting the right wing of parliament to return to its title on the situation in the west bank, including settlements although its majority has insisted that a resolution cannot be debated and adopted. we are alarmed by the situation in the west bank. even more so after the newly elected us president's position ruling out a state in palestine. israel is doing nothing to help peace in the middle east or to find a final solution to the conflict with palestine. from imposing an armed presence in another country and imposing controls on the movement of people in another country; from erecting a wall to separate lives and hopes in another country, israel is now legislating on foreign territory. that is unacceptable. the law regularizing israeli settlements on palestinian land paves the way for the annexation of the west bank and "gradually" destroys the two-state solution. in the last twenty days israel has authorized 5,800 illegal settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. the way of colonization, illegal expansion, discrimination, exclusion and the facts of life has brought israel to the brink of a new conflict.
in writing. our group has succeeded in getting the right wing of parliament to return to its title on the situation in the west bank, including settlements although its majority has insisted that a resolution cannot be debated and adopted. we are alarmed by the situation in the west bank. even more so after the newly elected us president's position ruling out a state in palestine. israel is doing nothing to help peace in the middle east or to find a final solution to the conflict with palestine. from imposing an armed presence in another country and imposing controls on the movement of people in another country; from erecting a wall to separate lives and hopes in another country, israel is now legislating on foreign territory. that is unacceptable. the law regularizing israeli settlements on palestinian land paves the way for the annexation of the west bank and "gradually" destroys the two-state solution. in the last twenty days israel has authorized 5,800 illegal settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem. the way of colonization, illegal expansion, discrimination, exclusion and the facts of life has brought israel to the brink of a new conflict.
the rapporteur. mr president, i greet the vice-president of the european commission, mr valdis dombrovskis, and all my colleagues here. we are discussing the governance of the single market today. we value all that we have achieved, which is not little, and all that remains to be done in this unique political project which is the european union. regardless of the political storms that may be shaking us, brexit, new nationalisms, or rather, populist political opportunism on the right and the left, there is something that we can be undeniably proud of, europe's greatest achievement, which is its single market. a market of 500 million people that, over the last 50 years, has generated economies of scale unimaginable for european businesses, helping us to create transnational competitiveness, new business opportunities and new jobs. a single market which has contributed, more than any other policy adopted in this house or in the council, to better integrating european companies by offering them international value chains and, therefore, global competitiveness. the european single market has increased consumer supply, offering lower prices, and has enabled citizens to live, work and study wherever they want. the changing environment of the union, the external effects of globalisation are permanent challenges for the single market, to which it has to adapt. we, as legislators and in fulfilling the political mandate given to us by the citizens, must continually optimise policies to consolidate economic recovery and to encourage convergence towards those who achieve the best results. the obstacles identified in the markets for goods and services are a brake on the productivity and competitiveness of the european economy. companies are often suffocated by outdated and overly burdensome rules. in my report i have stressed the urgent need to remove barriers to the single market and to create the right environment for the growth of our economies. at the same time, we need to be especially attentive to innovation and global value chains that are creating new and important opportunities. digital technologies are transforming many industrial sectors, enabling more efficient production and new and innovative business models. increasingly, services and industry are coming together in clean and smart business offerings that bring greater added value to their customers. however, this innovation also challenges traditional business models and consumer-business relations. in this respect, and to improve the european economic model and restore competitiveness, a comprehensive combination of public resources, structural reforms and targeted investment is required. all the institutions and member states of the union must act together if a sustainable recovery is to be achieved and the convergence process is to be revitalised. this requires close involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments, the social partners, national, regional and local authorities and civil society as a whole. the investment plan is now operational, aiming to mobilise at least eur 315 million in new investment over three years and return investment to sustainable pre-crisis levels. the plan, announced and implemented in record time, aims to stimulate investment finance, remove obstacles, increase innovation and deepen the single market. europe is putting the money in, but as always the member states play a key role in achieving these objectives, and i must say not always successfully. the report of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, for which i was rapporteur, presents a text agreed by the pro-european political forces, who identify themselves with a better and more efficient europe. in this respect, imco focuses on three key areas: strengthening the single market pillar within the european semester process, unlocking the potential of the single market in key areas of growth and strengthening the governance of the single market. we call on the european commission to strengthen the pillar of the single market through a system of regular monitoring to identify country-specific barriers to the single market and to assess integration and competitiveness in the single market. we call for the potential of the market to be harnessed by collecting and working on the information obtained from the member states, to reshape, incorporate, implement and enforce the single market regulatory framework with the ultimate aim of delivering very concrete results to citizens. we believe that the european commission should systematically monitor the implementation and enforcement of single market rules through country-specific recommendations, especially when these rules contribute to structural reforms. in this context, i would remind you that the objectives of the investment plan for europe, the juncker plan, include the removal of obstacles, the increase of innovation and the deepening of the single market. i would stress in this connection that improving the investment environment means strengthening the single market by increasing regulatory predictability, strengthening the level playing field within the union and removing obstacles to investment within and outside the union. despite the removal of tariff barriers in the single market, a large number of various non-tariff barriers remain, and i believe that strengthening the single market requires urgent action at national and union level to remove such barriers. i would like to thank my colleagues and the other rapporteurs for the good work they have done. i think our committee is proud of the work we are doing in this direction.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, there are two ways of talking about minimum incomes: as an individual and subjective right to a decent life so that no family is left below the poverty line an objective to which the european union can contribute by upward harmonisation of social protection, for example through a minimum income framework directive, as the eesc is calling for or we can talk about minimum incomes by linking them to the dismantling of labour rights, without fighting economic inequality and the neoliberal policies that cause it, but by legitimising an unfair system by concealing its most serious effects. this is what the european semester is all about and its purported social recommendations, which are designed to strengthen the power of capital over the economy, from privatisation to deregulation. it's a debate that i illustrate with the minimum income, but it's transversal to all the debates on european governance and constitutionalism that we've had today, whether it's better to add a social pillar to the eurozone or to rebuild europe on elements like the social charter, for example. social democracy continues to advocate neoliberal economic policies in exchange for minimal progress in social protection, but the two objectives are incompatible in the long term. we know, however, that without putting social rights ahead of economic freedoms, there is no room for improving the lives of europeans.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, i am very pleased with the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mrs yana toom, and of course by her colleagues in the working group, because this report, which deals with the social aspect of the european semester, is absolutely essential from a political point of view, and more so at this moment. and it is essential because it is the report that puts the european citizen back at the centre of policies and in the policy objective, because everything that is done in the european semester, including the sacrifices, is done for the european citizens, and that is where it is worth getting right. let us not miss the mark; this is the analysis of a series of short-term policies 'one semester' and, in particular, of macroeconomic policies and their effectiveness on a series of values which i shall now say. this is not a debate about the ideal labour market or some absolutely arithmetically insane figures or some structural targets for how to get to pensions. what we have to do is to see what the consequences of the policies have been on employment (in a very general sense: quality, where the unemployment funds have gone), on inequalities, whose dynamics must be broken at once, because they are being exaggerated and because they even harm economic growth, and not only socially, but also in the financing of social policies: how they have gone, how we have evolved. in this field, and in the fight against poverty and gender equality within inequalities, there are some excellent ideas, suggestions, even demands, in the text we will adopt tomorrow.
mr president, i have to say... commissioner, if there is a general consensus in this house, it is that europe is in an exceptional situation. the refugee crisis, the brexit, the rise of populisms. but in the face of this exceptional crisis, the response from the european commission is practically ordinary, as if nothing had happened since 2014. and i believe that a change is needed, a change in social policy and a change in economic policy too, precisely to combat the problems that are afflicting us today in the european union as a whole. we need a more social europe. we need to focus on raising wages, not only to make the recovery fairer, but also and fundamentally to make the recovery more sustainable over time. we need to support the longterm unemployed more. we need to support more, too, youth employment. and we also need to push the expansionary policy forward not only with the juncker plan, not only by betting on public-private initiative, but also by allowing member states to invest in strategic areas, to increase public investment. we believe that in this situation we must not only contribute with good words and good intentions, but we must find strong solutions to prevent 2017 from being another year of political deficit and the european commission's political response to the problems that afflict citizens.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for the tone of this annual growth report, because it is probably the first time that the commission has taken up the need for a global approach to the euro area. until now, in recent years, there has always been a country-by-country analysis, and that prevents or prevents you from having a global view of what economic policy should be for the euro area as a whole. this time it's done. and that overall reflection leads the commission to assume that a different fiscal policy is needed, an expansionary fiscal policy for the whole of the euro area, which will probably have to be combined with different approaches in each of the countries. but this global approach is very necessary because monetary policy is not enough to revive growth, and we need a serious expansionary fiscal policy, which is also linked, by the way, to what my colleague sergio gutiérrez was calling for: the need to build the social pillar in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mr hökmark on the work he has done. the coordination of economic and budgetary policies within the european union is the key to the european semester and it is our responsibility to contribute to ensuring convergence and stability in the european union, to contribute to ensuring sound public finances, to fostering economic growth, to preventing excessive macroeconomic imbalances and to implementing the europe 2020 strategy. it is true that the exit from the crisis is becoming a reality and the latest data are positive, as evidenced by the fact that unemployment continues to fall and is already at 2009 levels, inflation is approaching the european central bank's targets, and growth gained strength in the last quarter of 2016. but it is no less true that there is still a long way to go. the european central bank has done its part. monetary policy alone is not enough to stimulate growth. investments in strategic sectors are needed, as are structural reforms. the way out of the crisis requires a tightening of economic governance and continuing reforms at the national level. that is the only recipe and spain is a good example. spain leads the european union in economic growth and job creation. structural reforms are the key to overcoming the crisis. let's face them without fear.
mr president, we have been discussing for some time issues of great current and future importance, such as the demographic challenges of ageing and economic and social cohesion, especially in relation to employment, the fight against poverty and social exclusion. however, despite the need to make further progress in these areas, i believe that we are leaving in the background the territorial aspect necessary to achieve a harmonious development of the union. i come from aragon, a region where, in addition to the ageing of the population, a large part of its territory suffers from depopulation and dispersion problems. in this respect, over the past few years i have tabled many amendments with a number of colleagues which have been adopted both within and outside the european semester, and now it is time for them to be translated into concrete measures. like aragon, there are many regions in spain and the rest of europe with the same problems. it would therefore be appropriate for europe and the member states to consider the development of a european plan to meet this challenge. mr dombrovskis, if we do not act soon and make sure that these regions are able to establish a population and, in particular, encourage young people to stay in their territories, we risk condemning many of these european areas to extinction.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the banking union is an eu project after the creation of the euro and it is fundamental for the future of our currency. the absence of european financial supervision was one of the reasons that brought us to the financial crisis. national financial supervision is less effective as banks globalised their activities. the ecb has been reliable and has won strong credibility. the contrast with some national central banks is huge. yesterday, for instance, the former president of banco de españa, miguel ángel fernández ordóñez, as well as his supervisory team, were indicted by the spanish justice on charges of allowing irregularities in bankia’s initial public offering in july 2011. bankia’s ipo was done, even though banco de españa knew that it was close to bankruptcy. it was just done because of the close relations between the banco de españa and bankia’s director, rodrigo rato. thousands of people lost their savings and bankia was bailed out for eur 23 billion, paid thanks to a european bail—out. this is why the banking union is so important: to say goodbye for ever to the bad practices of many national supervisors in many national central banks in europe. i would like to call attention to the amendment to be tabled with the greens and ecr: the use of public money to bail out banks has to be only in exceptional cases. if the rules of the banking union are not followed, as may happen now in italy, our future will be full of more public deficits and a new banking crisis will put the euro at risk. only if all member states comply with banking union legislation will it be possible to create a european deposit guarantee to complete our project and give extra assurance to citizens and investors. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer to a blue-card question. i have to say, mr president, that if the small savings banks in germany are not subject to european supervision, if there are losses, only the german taxpayers, the germans, will pay for the mistakes that the bundesbank may make and there will be no effect of these losses on the whole of europe. i should also say, for example, that in the case of bankia the spanish prime minister rajoy always said 'it's too big to fail', but that is not true because the former commissioner for the european union, who was also spanish, said that in germany there are banks bigger than bankia which were closed down so as not to cause losses for the taxpayer. i have to say that, in this sense, if italy is to be consistent, it cannot sign the banking union in 2014, as renzi did, and then say that now we will do a bailout as we have done all our life because there are losses for investors.
mr president, i should first like to congratulate my colleague, mrs danuta hübner, on her report and say that banking union is an indispensable component of monetary union and a fundamental pillar of a genuine economic and monetary union. but banking union is not only necessary to ensure stability and restore confidence in euro area banks; it is also essential to increase financial integration, to reduce european banking risk and moral hazard, to help break the link between banks and sovereign debt, and to promote risk sharing within monetary union. the banking union plays a key role in financing investment and thus in fostering growth and job creation in the union. we then committed ourselves to banking union in response to the financial crisis and we have already achieved the first two pillars: the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism. we must continue to move in this direction, ensuring that sharing and risk reduction go hand in hand. that is why we must move forward in the negotiations to create a european deposit guarantee fund to complete the banking union and to ensure that taxpayers' money is protected against possible future crises. economic and monetary union is in much better shape today than it was before the financial crisis, but completing banking union is a necessary step to continue moving towards a genuine economic and monetary union of the member states.
mr president, we are discussing today an important report which we will be voting on in the coming days, which clearly aims to close the banking union model. in the first half of 2012, the euro area was very close to the abyss. we believed for a moment that the euro could disappear and it was the commitment in the summer of 2012 to create the banking union that saved us from disaster. and i have to say that since then the crisis first started to slow down and now we are in a situation that is a little more optimistic, but with problems. but that banking union which was launched in 2012 needs to be completed, and we need to approve a european deposit guarantee fund now. we cannot wait, we cannot continue to follow the council's instructions to delay, to delay the negotiations. and in parliament we need to move quickly, with a backstop prosecutor that closes the model once and for all.
madam president, we must put this debate into perspective and, by the way, respect for differing positions, less arrogance on the part of some of the speakers. the truth is that europe is at a crossroads, at a very critical moment and is facing a protectionist and hostile challenge, for the first time, from the trump administration. we are facing a territorial and political challenge from russia, an unstoppable rise of china and its model, a neighbourhood mired in instability and a rampant nationalism within the european institutions themselves. what is left for europe but to consolidate or try to consolidate a bloc of common values? and what country can do better with europe than canada? we don't have many fellow travelers who share our values in today's world. i do not believe that this agreement is the panacea for anything or the best possible agreement. that's what we got today. the socialists have also made many changes. it is a further step in a direction which i believe is the right one, although it is far from our goal. we socialists do not want unchecked globalisation, nor do we want to build protectionist walls. in both extremes, we want a world open to trade, but with democratic rules, with public control. we want trade to be free, yes, but fair.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a popular outcry surrounds parliament today, but the deafness of many of you will lead europeans to believe even less in this institution, giving wings to those who break europe, to those who want to raise walls and to those who want to resurrect fascism again. today, the house of democracy sells democracy to the multinationals. you're blind to our bosses, the citizenry. more than three million firms, more than two thousand municipalities and regions, trade unions, judges, ngos, consumers, farmers, livestock farmers, public servants, environmentalists and small businessmen are saying no to ceta. can't they hear you? who are you listening to? and i now turn to my socialist colleagues, my colleagues in the socialist group, and especially my compatriots in the psoe, whose own union, the ugt, is asking you to vote against it. do you realize the enormous betrayal you commit against the working women? to whom are you loyal today, are you seeking a seat on a board of directors? today is a sad day, but democracy will make its way to the states. we are still standing, loud and clear, saying no to the constitution of multinationals, no to ceta.
madam president, commissioner, thank you very much for your work: you have the full support of our political group. in these uncertain times, it is important that the european union gives a clear signal that it is committed to openness, to closer ties with our partners, to international trade, and what better signal than the ratification of the agreement with canada. together we can lay the foundations for the international trade of the future, a trade based on our principles and values that respects the high standards that both regions share. ceta is a modern, ambitious and balanced agreement and it would be desirable that it could serve as a model for other trade agreements. the future of the european union depends on external trade, on which a large part of our economic growth and job creation depends. this agreement is good for europe, for smes, and it is good for the present and the future of european citizens. those who are against ceta, are in favor of trump's policies.
madam president, let us decide today which model of international trade the european union defends, whether trump's protectionism, 'america first', or principles and values first through a trade policy that sets rules for globalisation to make it fairer. a trade policy that not only removes trade barriers but also guarantees and promotes the european union's social, labour and environmental standards in the rest of the world. ceta is not a perfect agreement. no deal is. there is always room for improvement, and that is our role, but with ceta, thanks to the work of many - including, of course, our group - we have made important steps in the field of transparency, sustainable development, civil society participation and the defence of our welfare state and public services. ceta is an opportunity, because with this agreement we commit ourselves with our canadian partners to move towards a more just and supportive globalisation. and to my spanish gue colleagues i say that being left-wing is not being protectionist or nationalist. if they believe that, they are outnumbered on the left by donald trump, marine le pen and the anti-europeanist comrades on the far right.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement with canada comes at a very particular moment in our calendar, when the first priority of the european union's trade policy, the agreement with the united states, has fallen. the european union is the world's leading exporting bloc for goods; it is the world's leading exporting bloc for services; it is the world's leading investor and recipient of foreign direct investment, and one of the world's leading importer blocs. contrary to what has been said, this agreement is a decisive step in the right direction and is a balanced, fair agreement which will benefit the interests of our citizens, creating prosperity and employment. i would therefore like to congratulate the commission on this negotiation and, although i would have liked it to have been concluded in a shorter time - seven years is too long - i believe that this agreement will mark a milestone. and so i would encourage the commission, in the remainder of its mandate before the end of this juncker commission, to conclude the outstanding agreements, and i would like to name, among others, japan, australia, new zealand and, of course, mercosur.
madam president, i want to express my support for ceta and the strategic partnership agreement with canada. we share many values and goals with this country. they are also our partners in nato and we cooperate closely to tackle global challenges such as climate change. we also support multilateralism and respect for international law. the strategic partnership agreement will improve our dialogue and coordination. ceta is the most modern free trade agreement ever negotiated by the european union. it will allow our companies better access to the high-priced canadian market. in addition to an innovative system for the resolution of investor-state disputes, ceta establishes a wide opening up in the field of public procurement, which i think is very important, as it will allow european companies to participate in public procurement also at provincial and municipal level in canada. it is the most comprehensive agreement on this subject ever opened up in this country. ceta will boost economic and trade relations with canada. in today's world, you can't be against international trade. on the contrary, trade brings prosperity, benefits consumers and also creates jobs, which europe needs so much.
madam president, commissioner, thank you and your team for the great job you have done. we will support ceta because it favours smes, which are the main job creators in the european union; because it opens up new opportunities for trade in sectors where we are world leaders in quality and technology, including high-quality primary production - which can only strengthen this position - and because we share with canada values and principles that will be reinforced, as we grow with an agreement that makes them more present and stronger in world trade. this is the best response to other social or environmental standards which, without agreements like this, find it easier to prosper. the european commission's trade team has shown in this legislature knowledge, real capacity to evolve hitherto immobile realities such as the arbitration system and social sensitivity and ability to interlocutor. opportunities such as those opened up by this agreement are always much more than a no.
it's just a question, mr. president, because i didn't understand. it's a question: are you not going to vote today or are you never going to vote?
mr president, i have said 'no' to ceta because it will lead to the loss of more than 200 000 jobs in the european union. i have said 'no' to ceta because it will increase inequalities, lower wages and increase long-term unemployment. i said 'no' to ceta because it unbalances labour relations in favour of multinationals, who will have arbitration tribunals to attack workers' rights. i have said 'no' to ceta because canada is a country that has not even signed the ilo convention on the right to collective bargaining. and it is not i who say this: it was this parliament when it voted its resolution on employment and ceta. i regret that today he ignores his own words and prefers to defend the big multinationals rather than the workers themselves. the fight continues and we will not give up. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
mr president, today is not a good day: today the ceta agreement with canada has just been approved here in the european parliament. we, the european left, voted 'no' but, of course, it was nevertheless approved with 408 votes in favour by the european people's party, the liberals and the large majority of social democrats, including the psoe. the grand coalition works perfectly here. but we haven't lost this battle, because this has just begun. ceta must now be ratified, it must be voted on in all the member states and that is where we must redouble our efforts. we're only going to stop this if we are thousands, millions in the streets, organized, the political and social forces from all over europe and canada together. so this is another call to participate in the campaigns that are organized against ceta, against ttip and against tisa. we will continue in this fight, and as always, from the united left, we will also be there.
mr president, what we have seen in this house today is a spectacle. the members themselves are voting against this parliament, voting against democracy. they have voted to have this house and the rest of the national and local parliaments lose their power, lose their sovereignty to give it to business, to give it to the lobbies. how did you do that? with ceta, a free trade agreement that puts private profit before people and planet, that will create its own justice and that will mortally wound small and medium-sized farmers and ranchers. the people, the liberals, the socialists with stickers who voted in favour of the single act: next week you will be told that we need more europe, but your model of europe is a precipice and people will not follow you to the precipice. over three and a half million signatures, over two thousand municipalities declared themselves free of ceta. this treaty will never see the light of day. people will bury him forever as he passes through national parliaments.
mr president, i voted against the canada agreement because, although they claim that these exports will save us, they are moving our production and industries. when they tell us that there will be cheap products on the market, they are telling us that we will have less wages and that we will have less income in agriculture. i voted against ceta because it puts the sovereignty of peoples in the hands of large transnational corporations, because it endangers our lives, our health, our food, our public services, our education, our health, our agriculture, our fisheries and our small and mediumsized enterprises. i voted against ceta because i want a future for us, for the working classes and for our people. i voted no because i support the right to decide freely about our future and i ask that this treaty not be applied until the parliaments of the member states have the last word.
mr president, i voted against ceta because it is against social rights and only benefits multinationals on both sides of the atlantic. more than three and a half million signatures of european citizens asking to vote "no" to ceta have been literally thrown away by the great coalition of the pp, the socialist party and citizens, these signatures that we have in our seats. ceta puts our public services, our health, our hospitals, our schools on sale and, as the tides said, "our health and our school are not for sale, they are defended". and that's what we've done right here. ceta is putting our democracy on sale. private arbitration tribunals are a blow to the rule of law that put corporate profits ahead of state law. ceta and the neoliberal austerity policies and cuts are the perfect breeding ground to pave the way for the ghosts of fascism like trump or like le pen. because our lives are worth more than their profits, which is why i voted against ceta.
mr president, victims are the most important thing, and albert camus said: 'in the face of evil, in the face of death, man seeks justice from the depths of his being.' that is also the point of this directive. the updating of the directive was necessary because globalised terrorism requires at least european harmonisation of criminal penalties, with justice, without excesses. there is no other way to avoid impunity, and not all countries were prepared. there are two "buts" to the result of the tripartite dialogue - although i must thank the rapporteur and the other collaborators for the effort they have made - one, the exchange of information, which has been limited to judicial exchange, and not police exchange; and two, the innocent, the victims of terrorism, who will continue to have very different rights and treatment - in many cases, very deficient - depending on their nationality, even in the face of the same attack. some people think that victims do not need a specific directive of their own; i think they do. not because the crimes are more serious, but because terrorists use our lives to condition the whole of society, and each new attack opens the wounds of the previous victims. both of these things will have to be changed at some point.
the question of the 'blue card'. i don't know if i should give mr. korwin-mikke more time, but i do want to remind him of something. to fight terrorism, as to fight any kind of crime, we must be based on four actions, on four p: we must prevent, we must pursue, we must protect and we must penalize not journalists, by the way, not journalists. we have to prevent through intelligence, cooperation, and we have a european counter-terrorism centre which is key, it is an essential platform for developing european intelligence. don't you think that to prosecute you need a joint police and judicial force? do you not agree that in order to protect the victims, the vulnerable, we need the cooperation of the institutions, and that in order to punish, we need directives that actually punish those who commit crimes?
mr. chairman, commissioner, thank you monica for your commitment to the victims. i would like to dedicate this report to them. ladies and gentlemen, when i speak of terrorism, how to combat and prevent it, i can say that my life is going well, because my life is what was taken from my brother and his wife by eta terrorists. no matter where terrorism comes from - whether it's nationalist, whether it's islamist - the goal is the same: the extermination of those who don't think like them. i have heard in this house that there is no need to rush, that there is no need to exaggerate. with all due respect, against terrorism, goodwill is not enough. what we need to combat terrorism is intelligence, firmness and unity, and this report responds to what citizens are asking us to do: to be able to live in peace without a bomb or a bullet in the back of the head violating their most sacred right, the right to life. i welcome the fact that a giant step has been taken in assisting european victims, but we need a specific directive for victims of terrorism, because terrorist crimes are crimes against humanity and it is society as a whole, ladies and gentlemen, that is the real and last victim of terrorism.
madam president, commissioner, the spanish socialists in the european parliament have the best reasons to support an update of the directive on the fight against terrorism, and to bring all the painful experience of many years of fighting terrorism. firstly, against the terrorism of eta, which is certainly not islamist, but which has taught us the importance of european cooperation and the fight on a european scale. first, the typification of glorification, what we call in spain the apology and the exaltation of crime. secondly, the aggravation of the recruitment of minors, particularly vulnerable people. thirdly, the strengthening of the blocking of websites, the prevention of computer attacks on the counter-terrorist intelligence systems and the confiscation of assets from terrorist activity, but, very importantly, probably the most important, the strengthening of the protection of victims with psychological, emotional, specialized legal and economic and financial support, because this is a clear lesson of the spanish fight against terrorism. the round-trip of terrorist recruitment and the protection of victims must be improved.
madam president, in the fight against terrorism, it is urgent to turn words into deeds, and the key is the fair, immediate and legally guaranteed exchange of relevant data in order to detect and prevent possible terrorist acts and to use all available resources in this endeavour. typing new crimes to punish terrorist training and recruitment is interesting, but without shared data it's useless. in several countries, some bodies are competing; in others, for purely political reasons, they are not equipped with the experience, knowledge and presence in the territory that the basque or catalan police have, for example, and it is still being discussed whether or not they should be integrated into this european exchange dynamic, while the ten million europeans they protect are astonished to see nothing. improvement is as easy as wanting to improve.
madam president, the european union's borders are, according to various organisations, the most dangerous on the planet for migrants and asylum seekers. we are aware that many of the european union's borders, such as the fences of ceuta and melilla, are lawless places where the security forces act with their backs to the law. there, police violence and hot-handed returns are routine and it is impossible for people to apply for asylum. with this reform, which talks about the management of human flows as if they were objects, what you are trying to do is to make freedom of movement a presumed crime. to carry out their xenophobic plan, they do not care about ending the geneva convention, returning people to bombs or treating as criminals those who want to enter our continent. the strengthening of borders is directly responsible for the more than five thousand deaths in the mediterranean and also for the deaths on the land border between turkey and bulgaria. the problem is that you treat refugees and migrants as criminals when the dangerous ones are you, who want to pass legislation that goes against human rights.
madam president, the controls at our external borders are, along with other criminal intelligence tools, one of the main safeguards we have to maintain the security of the schengen area. the threat from returning fighters is real and we must confront it. terrorism also comes from radicalized european citizens. the latest figures indicate that some five thousand european citizens may have travelled to conflict zones to join terrorist groups. many of them may have returned already or may do so soon. the threat is clear. there has been much discussion about the proportionality and necessity of these controls. i respect and support the need for this debate, which we are also reproducing in many other legislative projects. i, as rapporteur for the smart borders package, have dealt with the issue and therefore i sincerely believe that it is compatible to ensure our security while defending individual rights. this agreement does that, and i congratulate the rapporteur on that. we are talking about security wrapped in rights and guarantees. the territorial scope of this report covers border controls on land, at sea and in the air, thousands of points with their own specificities which make this task even more challenging, and i think the transitional period set for airport infrastructure is acceptable.
madam president, commissioner, we were discussing here in the european parliament a moment ago the amendment of the directive on the fight against terrorism and the importance of sharing all available information, with all the databases and all the technology available to the european union, which is not a small amount. it is important to prevent cyber attacks on intelligence systems, it is important to transmit information under judicial control and with all the guarantees; but if it is important to strengthen the databases at the union's external borders, it is even more important that this does not turn the union's external borders into an impenetrable hell, even for european citizens. we therefore call attention to the need for controls and their reinforcement not to be systematic, but to be so only when they are rationally subordinated to security, and there is sufficient flexibility so that these controls can be relaxed both in their intensity and in their temporal dimension, in their temporal scope, whenever possible in the interests of security and, above all, in the interests of the free transit and movement of european citizens within the internal borders of the union, because that is schengen, the most precious asset of european construction.
mr president, commissioner king, we have talked a lot this afternoon in the european parliament about strengthening the exchange of information available between police and judicial agencies to better combat the terrorist threat, and i want to say two things very succinctly. firstly, we must strengthen interoperability, because we have the eis, sis (first and second generation), we have the pnr and no investment will be enough if we do not guarantee the availability of all information and the political will of the police and judicial authorities to share it. the second is legal: the five-year period laid down by the lisbon treaty itself to adapt to lisbon all the instruments for cooperation in the field of information provided for in the 2005 decisions and the 2006 framework decision has long since expired. it is therefore essential, first, that the commission should provide a non-compliance assessment and demand compliance with these pre-lisbon instruments. but secondly, to ensure that the 2005 decision and the 2006 'framework decision' are finally brought into line with the lisbon treaty, with full guarantees of the fundamental rights of europeans.
this report presents the question of robotics as something unlimited and beyond our control, and that we can do nothing but regulate. recital q states that there is a possibility that in the long run artificial intelligence will surpass human intellectual capacity; well, but 'artificial intelligence' is created by human capacity and therefore, as all technology will not be neutral, it will be at the service of the ruling classes. i believe that the first step in this regulation should be to set limits on how and to what extent we want to use this technology, because after all technology should be a tool to promote people's well-being and facilitate their activities, but never to replace them. and we certainly cannot allow the advances in robotics to be used to enable a few to dominate the world through this process of concentration of wealth through the plundering of natural resources and the dispossession of the working classes. it cannot be used to destroy and precariousise employment; to continue wars; or to dehumanize medicine or the care and care of the elderly, for example. i agree, we need to regulate, set boundaries to protect society.
- thank you. congratulations, madam president, on your first presidency. madam commissioner, i really appreciate you very much and i know that you also have a lot of energy, but the time has come to strike a blow at the table and be taken seriously. because, of course, it is happening: more and more national rules, more and more discriminatory and obstructive rules. it is now the culmination, that is, the last straw, because it is already by nationality and, moreover, in germany. and i think we should be the ones to win. here, you see, you have the full force of parliament. it has to serve him, because, of course, we can't continue in this situation. you must prevail, because otherwise everything we have been building will be destroyed on the basis of discriminatory rules by nation and country, and also behind the commission's back. because i don't understand how mr dobrindt has the nerve to tell you one thing and then go to your congress and say the opposite. he says yes, yes, that german citizens are not going to pay. so you have to clear that up for us. i therefore ask you two questions: whether the infringement procedure is suspended or not, and what timetable you envisage for the solution.
madam president, commissioner, the legal basis for bringing this matter before the european court of justice was nothing less than the breach of articles 18 and 21 - non-discrimination on grounds of nationality and free movement of goods and services - of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the final solution, rather than a bilateral agreement, which does not seem to solve the underlying problem, depends on the expected european road charging system to prevent and avoid this bankruptcy, a rule which should ensure that this direct route of infrastructure financing is shared and progressive, linking contribution and intensity and frequency of use and the quality and conditions of the infrastructure. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the roadmaps and the implementation of the roadmaps for the period 2014-2020. in this context, a european system of tolls is also indispensable. individual solutions are not worth it.
member of the commission. – mr president, last year on 19 april the commission launched the european cloud initiative with the ambition of ensuring that science, businesses, public services could reap all the benefits of the so-called ‘big data revolution’. today we produce 2.5 billion – billion – bytes of data per day. that is, as someone once put it, four eiffel towers of blu-ray discs per day, so the fundamental question for us tonight is really how we should deal with it, and the cloud initiative is part of the answer to this question. the communication proposed the creation of an inclusive, european, open science cloud, deploying an efficient european data infrastructure to address such enormous data flows and opening up the user base to the public sector and industry. as commissioner for research, science and innovation, i have followed very closely the work of this house and it culminated with the adoption of the report in front of us today. let me say a word of gratitude to the chair, jerzy buzek, for stepping up as a rapporteur, and to mr boni and ms maydell for their work in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco). i knew from the beginning that the contribution of this parliament would be a valuable support for our strategy for an open and trusted cloud-based data environment geared to the scientific community. we are now deeply committed to engaging with all relevant stakeholders to ensure that the european cloud initiative can achieve its objectives. we are now discussing sustainable funding and implementation instruments with the member states, research infrastructures, scientific communities and other key players. but let me assure you that we are here to tell you that your advice will be followed, that the commission has already started to implement the initiative very much along the lines that you suggest. first, on the european open science cloud the commission is preparing a roadmap for governance and financing to be presented to, and discussed with, the member states in the course of 2017. our aim is very simple. we want our 1.7 million european scientists to have the best services for text and data mining, the best data management plans and the best training programmes. we made open data the default in horizon 2020, starting in 2017. in other words, we kind of transformed an exception into a rule simply because we intend and we believe that the commission should lead by example. we will fund a pilot project on the european science cloud to ensure that the governance in the european open science cloud is truly representative of european science, that it create synergies amongst existing and future initiatives of this kind. over the year, we will do more. we will define a governance board before the end of 2017 and we will work on making all our research data fair; findable, so scientists can identify each piece of data in a unique way; accessible, so it can always be obtained freely; interoperable, because science is today at the intersection of disciplines; and reusable, because you cannot lose important data after you have used it, you have to be able to use it in different disciplines at different times. so if we want better research, if we want better science and if we want better innovation, it is essential to be able to set these fair principles of data as the global standard, so we all speak to same language and we can advance in science. after addressing you on the science cloud, let me now give you some information about the european data infrastructure, a european high performance computing strategy under development with member states and european industry. this includes a pooling of the necessary investments at all levels to create a world-class pan-european high performance computing and big data ecosystem by 2023. we want this ecosystem to be built on two exascale computers. that means a billion operations per second, which is basically one thousand times faster than today’s supercomputers. the commission agrees that the take-up of high performance computing services by businesses, consumers, public administrations and scientific sectors requires seamless user-friendly access with appropriate levels of data protection, security and services to ensure trust and confidence in their use. i believe the key for the future in terms of data is about exactly these two principles: trust and confidence. and so in this context, on 10 january last, the commission adopted the communication on building a european data economy. that deals with additional big data issues. it advocates reducing barriers to the free flow of data. it looks into questions of ownership, access to data, liability in the context of data-driven processes and autonomous systems. it puts emphasis on measures necessary to ensure an open and competitive economy without unjustified lock-in effects. as regards widening the benefits of the european cloud initiative to industry, the commission is considering several proposals on the supply and demand side and on the extension to smes. let me finish by reiterating that the commission is fully committed with you to supporting science, industry and public authorities in europe, access to world-class data infrastructures and cloud-based services as they become the decisive factors for success in this digital era. in a recent visit to heidelberg i saw how the institute of bioinformatics generates more than eur 1.3 billion per year of value just by having made one very simple choice: scientific information freely available to the global science community. that is the way we are going. that is the way we will have to go, thanks to your report.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking the efforts of the alternative rapporteurs and, in particular, my colleague, mr michał boni, because the circumstances in which the position of the itre committee has been formed have been particularly complex and difficult, and we have, in the end, had a magnificent position, a magnificent document in the itre committee. the data economy is emerging as the main driver of growth and competitiveness worldwide, including in europe. until now, in practice, the generation of data had a profile and was a source of an essentially personal nature, linked to social networks, also linked to e-commerce. but now we are facing an emerging, and increasingly crystallized, situation where the data that comes from the machine-to-machine connection is becoming and will eventually become the heart of the knowledge economy, of the data economy. given the strengths of the european manufacturing industry - its export capacity, etc. - we are faced with a huge new possibility and in that sense this proposal for cloud computing for open science, but also for subsequent application to industry and other sectors, seems to me essential.
mr president, europe has a magnificent research and innovation ecosystem, 1.7 million researchers, 70 million science and technology professionals. but there's always a "but". we're good at inventing new digital technologies but we fail at exploiting these ideas commercially. we're good app developers, but for third-party platforms. europe is the world's largest producer of scientific data, but once again, fragmentation and inadequacies in our infrastructures prevent us from exploiting the full potential of this data. the european cloud computing initiative is both essential and urgent. we need a virtual environment to store, share and reuse the data generated by this universe of researchers and technologists across disciplines and across borders. we need to gain supercomputing capacity and that requires economic resources to make it possible to deploy supercomputing capacity, ultra-fast connectivity and high-capacity cloud solutions across a european data infrastructure. and to make it possible for all the regions of the european union to participate, so that there are no new gaps. i certainly support and encourage the commission and the member states to make these objectives a reality by devoting the necessary financial resources to financing initiatives in which we are playing the game of whether or not europe is globally competitive.
mr president, commissioner, as you know very well, the data economy is the indispensable or irreversible step in the digital economy. i welcome the report's call for open science, because of the advances it will bring to knowledge and to the economy itself. and to do that, we need an infrastructure, like icloud, that has to be ambitious and, of course, have enough funding. i believe that coordination by the commission is the key to its success. i also believe that public and private participation is essential if we are to take advantage of all the advances and opportunities that are available to us. to do this, i believe that participation must be effective in terms of access to information, and also in terms of supporting this infrastructure.
in writing. we are at a critical moment for european regional policy. not only because the funds available are hardly sufficient for the needs of regions devastated by unemployment and precariousness such as those in the southern and eastern peripheries of the eu. the aim of these funds is to meet the objective needs of these regions and their dependent integration into the single market. moreover, their increasing combination with financial instruments such as the efsi and the effects of economic governance, which envisage the suspension of funds if public spending cuts are not applied, are turning them into yet another lever of financialization and deregulation of the economy. we must rethink regional policy as a redistributive policy, one of solidarity between regions and development of the productive model in the peripheries. otherwise, many regions of europe will be condemned to poverty and emigration.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr telička, on his openness and patience in negotiating a report which he envisaged as a strategy for the future, something very concrete and essentially based on upper airspace as a springboard for the future, but on the other hand we also needed to look back and adopt a holistic approach, as he said, precisely at a key moment of change in the aviation sector. and so turning the view from the sky to the ground also means taking into account that the exponential growth that has come with the democratization of travel with that opening up of the market has also brought with it some problems, for example, problems of airport capacity. and in that sense i think that some of the proposals that have been put forward and that we have tried to put forward to facilitate, through the improvement of airport capacity, territorial cohesion and the development of regional airports, perhaps the idea of going into the future, are right. clusters with the rail links we are trying to give them through the transeuropean networks could be a formula for improving our capacity. it is also important - and i thank you for it - to be sensitive to the social aspect. i think that there was also a need for balance, because success for travellers needs to be balanced with improvements and decent jobs for workers; because if they don't earn, they don't travel, and we need them to have better and more decent wages so that they too can travel and therefore not by using upper airspace we are evading companies from their social obligations and responsibilities. as far as the technique and technology are concerned, i think that is where the approach lies, the need for better funding. therefore, in the new mff we will have to pay close attention to the connecting europe facility, to improving funding and also to the efsi. as regards international standards, i thank you, commissioner, for your struggle and your energy in the icao, and we should do the same in the ilo, to achieve standards of social, environmental and technical quality at european level and to impose them on the rest of the regions at global level. and finally, to break a spear, to emphasize the possibility of an idea that i leave on the table here, which is to move towards a regulated recycling of aircraft in the framework of the new circular economy that the european union is launching as a key idea.
mr president, aviation is, like so many other sectors, a sector affected by the liberalization imposed by the commission and the privatizations of the member states. spain is a clear example. the privatisation of aena will manage air infrastructure with profit-making in mind at the expense of quality services for passengers and workers. with liberalisation and privatisation there has been a clear deterioration in working conditions in the sector. while air services have grown by 47% in recent decades, employment is not growing, and temporary and precarious contracts, including zero-hour contracts, have become the norm. we must strengthen collective bargaining and listen to the demands of the trade unions to prevent changes in airport concessions or the operating bases of companies from leading, as now, to a worsening of working conditions. let us avoid social dumping and certainly not go ahead with privatisation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, at this point we are talking about the situation in nicaragua and, in particular, we are referring to the harassment of an environmental activist in the country: the case of francisca ramírez, who, protesting against a mega-project that is going to be produced in the country who has not had the necessary environmental study, who has not had the necessary consultation in the country in a work of these characteristics , has been harassed by the government. and we must denounce him, of course. and also, against this backdrop - and this is reflected in the resolution - we are seeing how the institutional system of the country has been weakening, both in terms of the rule of law and political pluralism: in the previous elections the european union did not participate as an observer, it was unable to do so; two elections ago it was very, very critical; and we have also seen how there were serious cases of corruption. but we must be proportionate and we cannot use some countries as weapons of political or ideological propaganda between us; and we must be balanced, because we are also talking, for example, about another resolution, in this case with several murders in another central american country - several murders, i repeat, several - not like the case of the harassment of francisca ramírez, as in guatemala. the focus at the end of the negotiations, the negotiations that are taking place today with the organization of american states, with the government, which we hope will improve the situation in the country, and in this the european union has to help.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for raising these cases of recent executions in bahrain and in kuwait. as you know, and all of you said, the european union has a strong principled position on the death penalty and it is always worth reaffirming this, in particular in cases where countries have not implemented the death penalty for some time, thus giving rise to the hope that a de facto moratorium will be applied. on 15 january 2017, the bahraini authorities carried out the execution of three people who were convicted of a bomb attack against the police which killed three policemen, including an emirati officer. as we stressed in the statement made by the spokesman for the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, this case was particularly disappointing as it represented a serious step back, given that bahrain had suspended executions for seven years. in addition, civil-society organisations have voiced concerns about possible violation of the right to a fair trial and due process for the three convicted, and an allegation of torture during the investigations. most of all, we are concerned that this case might result in a resumption of executions in bahrain. we are following, in particular, the cases of mohammed ramadan and hussein moussa, which bear strong similarities with the case of those recently executed. on 25 january 2017 the kuwaiti authorities executed seven people – four men and three women convicted for different criminal offences. this is the first execution in kuwait since 2013. the external action service also issued a public statement on this case expressing our wish to see kuwait returning to its previous de facto moratorium. although recognising the serious nature of the crimes involved, we thought it was useful, because it always is, to reiterate the eu’s opposition to the use of the death penalty in all circumstances, without exception. the use of the death penalty represents an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity and, contrary to what some people argue, experience worldwide has demonstrated that it also fails to act as a deterrent to crime. in addition, it makes any miscarriage of justice – and those can happen in any legal system – irreversible. we look forward to continuing to engage with you and we will continue to do our utmost to ensure that this issue will be raised with the relevant authorities in bahrain and kuwait, as in any other country which applies the death penalty – because, of course, there are still many. we are aware that the fact of the death penalty is recognised in the legal systems of these countries but we know that authorities in other countries in similar situations have developed a pragmatic approach and have started to apply a moratorium. that is what we constantly encourage countries such as bahrain and kuwait to do. we will continue also, through the work with like-minded partners, with civil society and in various multilateral forums, to promote a global moratorium on the death penalty. we will be looking forward to working with you on this.
author. mr president, commissioner, twenty years of the guatemala peace accords: a long way to go, but still a long way to go. as long as there is a single human rights defender victim, we cannot be satisfied wholly the opposite neither in guatemala nor anywhere else. but with the same yardstick: we cannot look at some governments while we stop looking at others that keep political prisoners - and today is my memory for leopoldo lópez on his third anniversary of imprisonment. the resolution we are presenting is above all balanced. we appreciate the steps taken by the government - which are many - and encourage them to continue in this struggle, but we also show our concern for a situation of violence that has not been eradicated. we call for the involvement of the institutions, including the european union, in all areas, and we call for redoubling efforts against any kind of violence, pressure or intimidation: zero impunity. it is a clear commitment to freedom, democracy and respect for human rights in guatemala and anywhere in the world. human rights are universal and have no nationality.
author. mr president, madam commissioner, just a year ago i travelled to guatemala as vice-chair of the subcommittee on human rights and there i witnessed the extreme violence and insecurity suffered by human rights defenders, journalists, judges, indigenous leaders doubly if they are women, but i also witnessed the admirable work that the international commission against impunity is doing, and also the deep sense of justice of the guatemalan people. today, in february 2017, guatemala is in the midst of constitutional reform and has a historic opportunity to provide a legal framework and guarantee for the independence of the judiciary, the fight against impunity, the right of indigenous peoples to prior consultation, the establishment of a mechanism to protect human rights defenders, and the full application of the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. we as the european union will be supporting and monitoring this process. well, except for the colleagues from united left, who say they defend the people, but we don't know which one. certainly not the one in guatemala.
mr president; sebastián alonso juan, human rights defender shot dead while participating in a demonstration against a mega hydroelectric project in huehuetenango; laura leonor vázquez, activist opposing the mining megaproject known as the san rafael mine, also shot dead. so, up to a macabre figure of sixteen female defenders killed and more than two hundred and fifty attacks last year in guatemala. what do all these people who suffer these attacks have in common? well, something that this parliament and mrs becerra too refuse to accept: they are human rights defenders, social leaders who oppose and fight against megaprojects by multinationals that condemn them to choose between emigrating or being exploited. we are talking about hydroelectric projects such as pojón ii and renace, mining projects such as fénix or oil projects such as the one carried out by the french company perenco in el petén, all of which are megaprojects of european transnational companies. it should be noted that the european union has a responsibility for these human rights violations linked to the activities of these transnational corporations in these countries, thanks to the european union's free trade agreements.
author. mr president, we welcome the drafting of this resolution. the truth is that the situation has gotten worse in terms of violence and impunity. in the last year we have had many deaths and many attacks on human rights defenders, environmental activists, even people like the director of the international commission against impunity, who has also been the victim of attacks on his person, which i think is a very relevant resolution. i also think it is necessary to say that, beyond the declarative, we must be able to see what the european union can do to change this climate of impunity, and there are some things that i think are important. first: support for the office of the prosecutor general and all its efforts against impunity. we expect the delegation and the institutions of the european union to support it. secondly, the whole mechanism has been put in place to implement the judgment of the inter-american court of human rights to protect the defenders. that's something you have to support to the end, it's very important. thirdly, in the reform of the constitutional judicial system, we have news that the guatemalan parliament may be able to water down the reform. it is very important that this reform be adopted in its entirety and we therefore also want to ask the european institutions and the delegation to insist on this line.
on behalf of the s&d group. this is a resolution which contains three major sections, ladies and gentlemen. on the one hand, a call for solidarity with a suffering people, a people as a whole who are suffering a horrible situation. but above all, it is an embrace for those who defend human rights and freedoms, for the ngos, for the human rights defenders, who are the victims of this horrible situation in guatemala. it is also a condemnation of organized crime, of drug crime, which is largely responsible for the problems suffered by the guatemalan people. it is also a demand that the government of guatemala make progress in defending human rights and protecting human rights defenders. it is also a call to the government of guatemala to ensure the independence of the judiciary and the thorough investigation of criminals and, above all, it is a call to the government of guatemala to continue fighting crime and corruption in that state. and finally, it is a call for the european union to help guatemala. not to restrict aid, but to help him fight what he's suffering.
president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of this house, ladies and gentlemen, later this month in rome, 27 of our member states will stand shoulder to shoulder in peace, solidarity and friendship to mark the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome, and i would like to see the president of parliament associated with these ceremonies. however, this will not simply be a birthday celebration. it should also be the birth moment of the european union of 27, and as we turn the page and commence a new chapter in our history, it is time we sought new answers to a question as old as our union is young: quo vadis europa at 27? europe’s founding fathers were visionaries. altiero spinelli and ernesto rossi, imprisoned by a fascist regime, dared to dream of a place where allies and adversaries would unite. unable to speak freely, they penned the manifesto for a free and united europe, which had to be circulated secretly in rome among the italian resistance movement in 1943. in writing this manifesto, this new chapter, spinelli and rossi decided not to cling to the darkness surrounding them in their ventotene prison cells. they stretched out their arms to the light instead. they dreamed of a better future and paved the way towards it. sixty years later, this should be an inspiration for us. with nothing to dim our voices, would we be forgiven for not speaking up? in 60 years’ time, what will our grandchildren say of our legacy? i want them to be proud, as spinelli and rossi would probably have been today. now is our time to be pioneers and to carve out a vision so that we may work hand in hand, united at 27, towards our future. sehr verehrter herr präsident, meine damen und herren, liebe kollegen! jeden tag ändert sich die welt um uns herum. die änderungen und veränderungen sind rasant. globalisierung, terrorismus, migration, die auswirkungen neuer technologien auf gesellschaft und arbeitsplätze verändern den alltag der europäer tiefgreifend. umstände, verhältnisse, zusammenhänge wechseln nicht jährlich, monatlich oder wöchentlich, sie wechseln täglich – so sehr und so schnell, dass wir manchmal außer atem kommen. vor uns liegen große herausforderungen und hohe hürden. sie sind groß und hoch, aber mitnichten unüberwindbar. entweder werden wir von solchen entwicklungen überholt, niedergewalzt, oder wir lassen uns auf sie ein, gestalten sie und ergreifen die neuen chancen, die sie mit sich bringen. europa darf nicht müde werden. europa muss hellwach sein und chancen und möglichkeiten aktiv, manchmal auch proaktiv, nutzen. wie es mein freund frank-walter steinmeier gesagt hat: wenn wir anderen mut machen wollen, brauchen wir selbst welchen. die zukunft europas darf nicht zur geisel von wahlperioden, parteipolitik oder kurzfristig innenpolitisch aufbereiteten erfolgsmeldungen werden. der brexit, so bedauerlich und schmerzhaft er auch sein mag, wird die europäische union auf ihrem marsch in die zukunft nicht stoppen können – wir machen weiter, wir müssen weitermachen! wohin gehst du, europa? quo vadis, europa? wohin steuert das europa der 27? es gibt eigentlich keinen besseren zeitpunkt und auch keinen anderen zeitpunkt als jetzt, um diese zugegebenermaßen schwierige debatte zu führen. alle überlegungen und debatten darüber, welchen weg wir einschlagen, müssen eine wesentliche aufgabe im blick haben, und die lösung dieser aufgabe muss unser aller handeln bestimmen. seien wir ehrlich: viel zu lange war das, was die menschen von europa erwarteten, zu weit entfernt von dem, was europa bieten und leisten konnte. unsere aufgabe wird es sein, deutlich zu machen, was europa kann und was europa nicht kann. nehmen wir zum beispiel die bekämpfung der arbeitslosigkeit und im besonderen der jugendarbeitslosigkeit. wir treffen uns gipfel um gipfel und versprechen die arbeitslosenzahlen, im speziellen die jugendarbeitslosigkeit, abzusenken. dabei liegt dies weit außerhalb der alleinigen möglichkeiten europas. auf europäischer ebene können wir keine wunder vollbringen, wenn die nationalen maßnahmen zu kurz greifen. wir können ausbildungsprogramme finanzieren, investitionen stimulieren – letzteres übrigens nicht ohne erfolg – doch das führt nicht automatisch und per se zu einem systematischen rückgang der arbeitslosigkeit. der eu-haushalt steuert lediglich 0,3 % zu den europäischen sozialhaushalten bei – 0,3 %! die mitgliedstaaten bringen 99,7 % auf. zu behaupten, europa stünde alleine in der verantwortung, wenn es um die bekämpfung der arbeitslosigkeit geht, ist schlicht falsch. dann sollen wir auch nicht so tun, als könne alleine europa das problem lösen. wir und die mitgliedsstaaten sollten dies endlich zugeben. wir sollten menschen nicht glauben machen, dass wir die sonne und den mond herbeizaubern können, wenn wir höchstens ein teleskop liefern können. wir sollten aufhören, absichten anzukündigen und sollten uns stattdessen stärker auf die bereiche konzentrieren, in denen wir handfeste ergebnisse liefern können. der ausgangspunkt für das weißbuch der kommission, das ich ihnen heute vorlege, ist folgender: es ist an der zeit – ich wiederhole mich –, dass wir klarstellen, was europa leisten kann und was nicht. viel zu oft wird die debatte über europas zukunft auf mehr oder weniger europa verkürzt. dieser ansatz führt aber in die irre, wie alle übertrieben vereinfachungen in die irre führen. im weißbuch stellen wir verschiedene wege für die zukunft der eu-27 vor: fünf szenarien für die europäische union der 27, wenngleich es in der wirklichkeit mehr möglichkeiten geben kann. nicht alle szenarien finden die spontane zustimmung der kommission, aber alle fünf szenarien sind im gespräch, ergo müssen wir uns mit ihnen beschäftigen. wir müssen darlegen, zu welchen folgen jedes einzelne dieser szenarien führen kann. schauen wir uns ein erstes szenario an, das auf eine fortsetzung der bisherigen politik abstellt. als diese kommission antrat, habe ich diesem haus versprochen, die dinge anders anzugehen, um das vertrauen der menschen wiederzuerlangen, und in weiten teilen gelingt uns das hoffentlich auch. die kommission hat bereits große fortschritte dabei erzielt, den althergebrachten reflex zu brechen, jeden aspekt im alltag der menschen regulieren zu wollen und uns in alles einzumischen. die menschen wollen nicht, dass wir vorschriften für toilettenspülungen oder für die höhe von kinderschaukeln erlassen. wir haben hunderte von vorschlägen zurückgezogen und schlagen anstatt 130 initiativen pro jahr, wie in früheren jahren üblich, lediglich 23 neue initiativen pro jahr vor. wir konzentrieren uns auf die großen dinge, die für den menschen wirklich wichtig sind. und trotzdem wird die kommission in allen hauptstädten, in fast allen nationalen parlamenten, manchmal auch hier, in fast der gesamten presse der überregulierung bezichtigt. dieses permanente brüssel-bashing macht keinen sinn, weil dieses brüssel-bashing seit dem amtsantritt dieser kommission keine grundlage hat. es täte uns allen im übrigen gut, wenn wir mit diesem brüssel-bashing, diesem european-union-bashing aufhörten. dies ist sehr oft ein ersatz für nationale versäumnisse. wir können so weitermachen, all unsere energie darauf zu lenken, ergebnisse in wichtigen bereichen zu erzielen und unsere positive agenda, die die zustimmung dieses hauses gefunden hat, voranzubringen. vollendung des binnenmarktes, des digitalen binnenmarktes, der energieunion, der kapitalmarktunion und der verteidigungsunion. das tun wir auch. und das werden wir tun. doch die frage muss erlaubt sein, ob das ausreichend ist. wir könnten auch den entgegengesetzten weg einschlagen und uns als europäische union der 27 ausschließlich auf den binnenmarkt beschränken: szenario 2. falls sich die mitgliedsstaaten in immer mehr politikbereichen nicht auf eine gemeinsame haltung verständigen können, falls immer mehr regierungen die kommission zu einem simplen binnenmarktverwalter degradieren möchten, wäre dies womöglich die einzige gangbare lösung. unsere lösung, meine lösung ist das nicht. die europäische union ist mehr als eine mehr oder weniger gehobene freihandelszone. europa ist mehr als markt, waren und geld. der binnenmarkt und der euro sind keine ziele an sich. sie haben dem menschen und den menschen zu dienen. trotzdem gibt es regierungen, die die rolle der europäischen union und ergo der kommission zurückdrängen möchten auf die binnenmarktverwaltung. ich bin strikt dagegen! dann gibt es eine dritte option, ein drittes szenario. müssen alle mitgliedsstaaten der europäischen union immer im gleichen tempo voranschreiten? wenn wir im kreise der 27 keine einigung erzielen können, weder was ziele noch die wege dahin betrifft, dann sollte es denjenigen, die in verschiedenen bereichen vorankommen wollen, erlaubt sein, weitere fortschritte dort zu machen, wo sie ihnen notwendig erscheinen. gleichzeitig müssen die anderen, die nicht am start dabei sein können oder nicht am start dabei sein wollen, die möglichkeit haben, sich absichten und taten der erststartenden später anzuschließen. doch wie würde sich ein solches system auswirken? für eine kleine anzahl von ländern könnte dieser ansatz große fortschritte mit sich bringen. für länder, die in einem derartigen rahmen etwa sämtliche informationen in der terrorismusbekämpfung austauschen, ein wirkliches europäisches asylsystem einrichten und verteidigungskapazitäten zusammenlegen möchten, wäre dies ohne jeden zweifel ein gangbarer weg. es könnte jedoch auch ein kompliziertes system konzentrischer kreise entstehen, in dem viele länder außerhalb des orbits zentraler politischer strategien kreisen würden. dadurch wäre europa noch schwerer verständlich, als es ohnehin schon ist. wie erklärte man beispielsweise den menschen, dass europa für die harmonisierung von frequenzen zuständig ist, auf denen autonom fahrende fahrzeuge bei einem unfall den rettungsdienst anrufen können, allerdings nur in den ländern x, y und z, und daher bekämen sie keine hilfe, wenn sie im land a unterwegs sind. die schwierigkeiten dieses ansatzes sehen wir bereits heute, wenn wir versuchen zu erklären, dass europa teilweise für die überwachung der schengen-außengrenzen zuständig ist, aber eben nur teilweise. und trotzdem: die vorstellung, dass einige mitgliedstaaten in teilbereichen voranschreiten und denen die bahn brechen, die sich erst später anschließen möchten, darf nicht ohne weiteres ad acta gelegt werden. diese form der avantgarde zielt nicht auf exklusion, sondern auf spätere inklusion. ich kann ehrlich gesagt dieser vorgehensweise einiges abgewinnen. ziel muss es bleiben, zu 27 voranzumarschieren. wenn sich dies aber als unmöglich erwiese, muss man der koalition der integrationswilligen die erlaubnis zum weiterfahren geben. europäische erfolge waren fast immer das werk vorauseilender pioniere. siehe schengen, siehe euro. (beifall) es gibt aber noch eine vierte möglichkeit: die eu-27 könnte gemeinsam beschließen, in einer etwas kleineren anzahl von bereichen vereint mehr zu tun. also in bereichen, in denen unsere europäischen maßnahmen einen echten mehrwert erzielen würden und in denen die menschen zu recht mehr von uns erwarten: szenario nummer 4. dies würde letztlich bedeuten, dass wir nach dem prinzip „weniger ist mehr“ verfahren. beispiele für bereiche, in denen die bürger mehr von uns erwarten, sind die sicherheitspolitik und das sogenannte dieselgate. eine echte europäische agentur für terrorismusbekämpfung, die informationen über grenzen hinweg austauscht und verdächtige systematisch beobachtet, könnte – davon bin ich überzeugt – einen greifbaren mehrwert für unser aller sicherheit bieten. genauso müssen sich europäische verbraucher, die durch technische manipulationen von automobilherstellern in die irre geführt werden, auf eine eu-agentur verlassen können, die sanktionen gegen täuschungsunternehmen durchsetzen kann und dafür sorgt, dass diese auch schadensersatz – und zwar überall – leisten müssen. anstatt die menschen dadurch zu enttäuschen, dass wir scharf formulierte schreiben versenden, in denen wir die mitgliedstaaten zum handeln auffordern, müssen wir sicherstellen, dass diesen aufforderungen auch folge geleistet werden kann. schließlich – szenario 5 – könnten die mitgliedstaaten auch beschließen, mehr befugnisse und ressourcen zu teilen und mehr entscheidungen gemeinsam zu treffen. sie könnten so vollgas geben, das neu geordnete gemeinsame in die zukunft hinein gestalten und die leadership der europäischen union sicherstellen. klimaschutz: hier muss europa weiterhin eine vorreiterrolle spielen, egal was jenseits des atlantiks ins haus steht. nachhaltige entwicklung: eine europäische daueraufgabe. verteidigung: hier müssen weitere eigenständige beiträge europas in aufstellung gebracht werden. toutes ces perspectives, toutes ces esquisses, tous ces projets théoriquement possibles sont des choix qui s’offrent à nous. tout en ayant récusé l’idée qu’il faudrait réduire l’union européenne à l’état de zone de libre-échange, ce qui n’est pas mon concept et qui ne correspond pas aux ambitions de l’europe, je ne vais pas vous dire ma préférence absolue aujourd’hui parce que, en fin de compte, ce n’est pas à moi seul – et je le regrette – ni à la commission de faire ces choix «in splendid isolation». je n’ai pas voulu présenter les vues définitives de la commission. je ne procède pas, alors que c’est devenu la mode, par «exécutive audace». la parole sera à votre parlement, aux parlements nationaux, aux gouvernements, à la société civile, bref, aux citoyens. contrairement à ce qui, jadis, fut la règle, la commission ne prescrit pas, ne dicte pas, n’instruit pas. elle veut être à l’écoute avant de se prononcer définitivement. pas de diktat – cela ne correspond pas à mon tempérament – mais de l’écoute. je ne suis pas un dictateur, mais j’aime dire les choses comme je les vois. j’aimerais annoncer la couleur, ma conception de l’union européenne dès aujourd’hui, et je mesure la déception de ceux qui auraient voulu que je le fasse. mais nous préférons écouter avant de dire. à ceux qui voudraient qu’avant le débat, la commission dise ce qu’elle voudrait être, je dirai qu’il ne faut pas confondre leadership et diktat. contrairement à ce qui a été fait jusqu’à présent, nous voulons d’abord écouter avant de nous prononcer. cela peut conduire – je l’ai lu – à des déceptions majeures, mais c’est une méthode qui fait honneur à la démocratie non seulement représentative mais aussi entière. parler d’institutions, de révision des traités, de procédures institutionnelles – débat qui agite ceux qui sont installés dans le confort de la bulle bruxelloise, qu’il faudra, à tout prix, que nous quittions tous ensemble – ne m’intéresse pas pour l’instant. d’ailleurs, un tel discours n’intéresserait pas les citoyens. vous, qui faites des réunions dans tous vos pays, vous a-t-on jamais posé une question sur l’équilibre des pouvoirs entre le conseil, la commission et le parlement? jamais! jamais je n’ai eu à répondre à une telle question! c’est donc un débat typiquement bruxellois qui, mis à part ceux qui sont installés dans le confort de la bulle bruxelloise, n’intéresse personne. il ne faudrait donc pas conduire ce débat. viendra, j’en suis certain, le jour où les traités devront être adaptés à une volonté collective, mais à une volonté collective à naître. car elle n’existe pas aujourd’hui. pour pouvoir donner corps à cette volonté collective, il nous faut un véritable débat, un débat honnête sur l’europe et sur ce que les citoyens attendent de l’union européenne. cette conversation vertueuse ne doit pas avoir lieu seulement à rome ou encore à l’occasion de nos nombreux sommets ou de nos nombreux débats ici même. elle doit avoir lieu dans les villes et les régions, partout en europe. c’est avec vous, mesdames et messieurs les députés, et avec les états membres que nous tiendrons une série de débats sur l’avenir de l’europe. chaque voix, même minuscule, à peine audible même, doit être entendue. les citoyens nous diront ce qu’ils attendent de l’union européenne. ils exprimeront vraisemblablement leurs doutes, leurs interrogations, mais aussi leurs espoirs. à nous d’y répondre. le livre blanc, que je vous invite à lire, y compris son introduction et l’échange des arguments pour et contre, nous aidera à formuler les bonnes réponses. au cours des prochains mois, la commission apportera de nouvelles contributions à ce large débat avec une série de documents de réflexion et de propositions plus précises portant sur les grands enjeux dont demain sera fait. nous présenterons nos idées sur le renforcement de la dimension sociale, débat à mes yeux essentiel et auquel j’apporte toute mon attention. ceux qui applaudissent, lorsqu’on parle d’europe sociale, ne font pas la majorité dans cette salle. honte à vous! parce que l’europe sociale est un enjeu principal pour les décennies à venir. nous présenterons nos vues sur l’approfondissement de l’union économique et monétaire et, notamment, sur les mécanismes qui amélioreront la très nécessaire coordination des politiques économiques. nous présenterons nos vues sur la maîtrise de la mondialisation et nos réflexions sur l’avenir de la défense de l’europe et l’avenir des finances de l’union européenne. en matière de défense, il est évident que les états européens devront augmenter leur budget militaire, mais la stabilité planétaire n’est pas seulement fonction de l’ampleur des budgets militaires. la stabilité internationale, mondiale, planétaire est aussi fonction de la dimension des budgets d’aide au développement et du financement de la lutte contre le changement climatique. réduire les budgets de l’aide au développement, remettre en cause les engagements qui furent les nôtres et ceux des autres en matière de changement climatique – je parle de la cop 21 – nuira gravement à la stabilité intégrale. l’union européenne doit porter et continuer à porter ces messages. la stabilité, ce n’est pas seulement l’affaire des armées, c’est aussi l’affaire de ceux qui veulent aider ceux qui sont en retard à rejoindre ceux qui sont en avance. la stabilité, ce sont les dépenses militaires, mais pas exclusivement; c’est aussi l’aide au développement et la lutte contre le changement climatique. mesdames et messieurs, vous vous êtes déjà penchés sur toutes ces questions et nous nous réjouissons à l’idée de continuer à travailler avec vous et notamment avec les rapporteurs qui ont vu leurs rapports adoptés récemment. je prends rendez-vous avec vous en septembre, lors du discours sur l’état de l’union, où je développerai davantage ces idées, pas avant, mais après avoir écouté les uns et les autres. j’aimerais que le conseil européen donne en décembre ses orientations pour un processus qui atteindra son apogée lors des élections européennes en 2019. en 2019, nous avons rendez-vous avec le suffrage universel européen. ce sera d’abord un rendez-vous d’explications. explications entre les forces politiques, c’est-à-dire entre les familles politiques, qui devront dire comment elles voient l’europe de 2025 et au-delà. je voudrais que le processus démocratique engagé en 2014 connaisse son prolongement, c’est-à-dire qu’en 2019, les partis européens présentent au choix de l’électeur des têtes de liste, exigence qu’il faudra que nous respections pour que la démocratie européenne fonctionne et reste crédible. en 2019, nous ne pourrons pas renoncer à l’acquis que nous avons réalisé en 2014, ensemble. je salue d’ailleurs amicalement les candidats qui n’ont pas eu la chance que j’ai pu avoir. (jean-claude juncker réplique à m. verhofstadt qui disait hors micro: «la prochaine fois».) les citoyens européens doivent pouvoir décider qui sera le prochain président de la commission européenne. les citoyens doivent pouvoir faire leur choix, pas les officines gouvernementales. je ne serai pas candidat à un deuxième mandat, comme je l’ai dit dès le premier jour. (applaudissements venant de la droite de l’hémicycle.) (en réaction à ces applaudissements) j’avais pour intention de ne jamais décevoir l’extrême-droite, j’ai réussi. je ne serai pas candidat à un deuxième mandat, mais, croyez-moi, je ne suis ni fatigué ni à court d’idées, au contraire, et vous allez le voir. monsieur le président, l’europe s’est relevée des cendres de la seconde guerre mondiale pour réaliser l’impossible: mettre fin à cette éternelle tragédie européenne qui, en fait, nous obligeait – les peuples, leurs dirigeants – à choisir entre la guerre et la paix. dans le monde d’aujourd’hui, plus de quarante guerres et conflits militaires font rage, mais pas un seul ne se déroule sur le sol européen proprement dit. vu de plus loin et à partir d’autres continents, l’europe continue à rester une chose magnifique: avoir réuni tout un continent, avoir mis un terme à ce funeste décret d’après-guerre qui voulait que l’europe, à tout jamais, soit scindée en deux blocs, y avoir créé un espace de stabilité, de prospérité et d’égalité nous vaut l’admiration du monde entier. très souvent, j’ai l’impression que les autres nous admirent et que nous-mêmes, il nous arrive de nous détester. mais cette europe, celle que je décris, n’est pas un acquis, ni une évidence. l’europe a toujours été et reste aujourd’hui et pour toujours un choix délibéré, qu’il faut défendre contre vents et marées, contre l’assaut de ceux qui ne veulent pas comprendre le cours de l’histoire. les choix que nous faisons maintenant, aujourd’hui, demain, dans deux ans et d’ici 2025 doivent tenir compte de leurs implications, non seulement pour nous, mais surtout pour les générations à venir. parce que nous serons jugés, non pas sur ce qui nous a été légué, mais sur ce que nous laisserons en héritage. nos citoyens nous disent souvent que nous devons faire les choses différemment. oui, nous y sommes prêts, mais il ne faut pas vouloir tout changer. nous devrions essayer de mieux comprendre les contraintes et les chances d’une application correcte du principe de subsidiarité, qui ne doit pas devenir un ersatz pour la solidarité, laquelle doit, elle, rester le principe directeur de toutes nos actions européennes et nationales. très souvent, en écoutant ceux qui se font l’avocat du principe de subsidiarité, j’ai l’impression que, comme ils ne veulent pas parler de solidarité, ils préfèrent parler de subsidiarité. il s’agit de bien comprendre la signification exacte du concept de subsidiarité. monsieur le président, nous n’avons pas le droit d’être – comment dire – patriotes contre les autres. le patriotisme du xxie siècle se décline en deux dimensions: un patriotisme heureux, accepté et acceptable vers l’intérieur, et la solidarité, qui est le prolongement du patriotisme heureux vers l’extérieur. il y a des valeurs qui doivent continuer de nous unir: la paix, la démocratie, la solidarité, l’état de droit – qui doit être la règle qui sous-tend notre vivre-ensemble très souvent menacé –, la dignité et l’égalité de tous les êtres humains, ainsi que la liberté de la presse. regardez ce qui se passe en turquie où l’on emprisonne, sans raison aucune, des journalistes allemands parce qu’ils ont osé dire ce qu’il fallait dire! les valeurs, oui, ce qui inclut le refus du rejet de l’autre, de celui qui est différent de nous, mais qui n’est pas moins noble que nous-mêmes. nous ne pouvons pas accepter que les voix de ceux qui défendent ces valeurs, dont je voudrais qu’elles soient universelles, soient noyées dans le vacarme des slogans nationalistes qui font du patriotisme une arme contre les autres. le patriotisme n’est plus un patriotisme lorsqu’il se dirige contre les autres. l’europe, elle, doit rester une force mondiale positive. nos sociétés européennes sont bâties sur l’ouverture et nous devrions en être plus fiers. d’autres préfèrent se refermer sur eux-mêmes et tourner leur regard vers l’intérieur. le nombrilisme fait des progrès angoissants à travers la planète. mais une telle attitude n’est ni dans notre nature, ni d’ailleurs dans notre intérêt. la démocratie – la démocratie entière – est un produit européen et nous la défendrons partout et de toutes nos forces. alors, ayons le courage, la patience et la détermination qui sont nécessaires aux longs trajets et aux grandes ambitions. l’europe continue à être une grande ambition. une ambition qui a derrière elle et devant elle un long trajet. nous avons aujourd’hui le choix entre plusieurs chemins, certains plus pernicieux que d’autres, d’autres plus porteurs d’avenir que d’autres. monsieur le président, quel que soit le choix que nous ferons, la destinée de l’europe à vingt-sept est entre nos mains. entre nos mains, oui, mais elle est d’abord et avant tout une affaire de cœur et une affaire de valeurs, de valeurs qui donnent sa véritable dimension à la raison d’état européenne. je ne suis pas en train de citer un poème européen, je décris une nécessité continentale. (applaudissements)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank president juncker for having chosen the european parliament as the first place to present this white paper. the anniversary of the treaties of rome will be something other than a celebration: it will be a farewell to the united kingdom and it will be the birth of the union with 27 member states. we have done many things wrong before arriving at this point. brexit is not the cause. brexit is the last consequence and we must be sure it remains the last consequence. if brexit is a divorce, the anniversary of the treaties of rome should be a time to renew the commitments between us and the union. we are all facing serious challenges: globalisation, terrorism, migration and the refugee crisis, climate change and so on. the question is simple: how do we want to deal with those challenges? how do we move forward? but also, do we want to move forward? this is a legitimate question too because i know that i want to move forward, but we cannot simply blame those who do not want to go further than we are now, by calling them anti—european. we are all europeans. europe belongs to all europeans, no matter whether they come from the north, the south, the east or the west. europe belongs to all of us. that is why i thank the commission for having presented five different scenarios, even knowing that none of them will be fully accepted. for my group, for example, a sixth scenario could also be possible: merging the other five because they are not mutually exclusive. i agree with president juncker that the time has come to align expectation with reality. it is time to say what you can do, and not promise what you cannot do. it is time to defend europe because it is the best bastion against nationalism and populism. what member states must do is to stop blaming europe for what europe cannot do because it does not have the tools. this is a wrong and dangerous game and brexit is one of the consequences. whatever road we take, we must take it in unity and with consensus because these two words have given us 60 years of peace. we may have forgotten where we come from. we come from war, death, poverty and hunger. we come from lack of freedom. we may have forgotten why unity is so important. we may have forgotten to explain that there is no alternative to the union – not in the past, not now, and not in the future. the union was – and will be – the best instrument for peace. so, when a country as important as the united kingdom leaves us, we have to ask ourselves the question: are they leaving us because peace is already consolidated or because peace is no longer important? i cannot understand it. to conclude, this debate is necessary: a debate about the future that we want for ourselves and for our children. this debate starts today, right here, right now, in the european parliament. this parliament must be fully involved from now on. every single member, every single committee and every single body of this house must be involved. europeans must be the owners of their own future, and this parliament is the way forward for them. this debate means that the council, the commission and the parliament have realised one thing: that the union is built from its citizens and not from the institutions. as manfred weber said today, it is now or never. well done, mr juncker. (applause)
mr president, mr juncker, i speak on behalf of the european free alliance in this parliament. with brexit, we know that europe's future will necessarily be different in a few months. to prepare for it, we must take our own slogan seriously: 'unity in diversity'. so far it has been possible for each member state to go practically on its own, and so there is no union. in the future, the union will only be possible if two conditions are met: first, that the european union recognises the value of medium-sized nations and welcomes former, openly, explicitly pro-european nations such as scotland and catalonia; second, that all the states, current and those to be added, accept that respect for diversity can only be achieved if at the same time they accept common bonds and commitments that bind them and make them stronger. that is to say, for the europe of the future, greater diversity, with more effective unity. only then will the values of the european union be credible.
mr president, mr juncker, you are right, there is no collective will in the governments of the member states and we must point the finger at it. you are also right when you say that the european union is not a given, and you are right to call for a rebuilding of the european consensus. but you are wrong not to show the way, because the enemies of europe, those who attack our values, will not stop, they will not wait for the end of our deliberations. mr juncker, i therefore suggest that you take action, show the way, have the courage to put the european stamp on the solutions that the citizens expect from us. we need to be brave. you know, mr juncker, melancholy has never succeeded in changing things. i thought you were a little sad. we need courage, you and us, because outside the citizens are waiting for a reaction.
in writing. the lack of momentum for the european project in the commission and especially in the council is worrying. we are approaching the anniversary of the treaty of rome with a notable lack of ambition and of perspective and, above all, of solutions to the real problems of the european citizens. the union must be led with ambition, action and determination. the governments of the member states are not showing a collective will to rebuild consensus, the main engine of the union. it is especially important to consolidate this europeanist political consensus in order to keep the european project viable, after brexit and the tension with the nationalists/populists. the commission must continue to lead the way in this process. the white paper on the future of the eu is an insufficient foresight exercise to see clearly what future europe has and whether it is worth continuing to trust in it. we citizens expect solutions that require action and courage. the white paper does not necessarily include them, it is a map of theoretical options. in our view, the commission should have made a diagnosis of what is not working in the eu and the member states should have shown a clear political will to move towards a stronger europe.
in writing. we are concerned about the lack of momentum for the european project which we perceive in the commission and especially in the council. we are approaching the anniversary of the treaty of rome with a notable lack of ambition and perspective, and above all a lack of solutions to the real problems of the european citizens. the union must be led with ambition, action and determination. the governments of the member states are not showing a collective will to rebuild consensus, the main engine of the union. it is especially important to consolidate this europeanist political consensus in order to keep the european project viable, after brexit and the tension with the nationalists/populists. the commission must continue to lead the way in this process. the white paper on the future of the eu is an insufficient foresight exercise to see clearly what future europe has and whether it is worth continuing to trust in it. we citizens expect solutions that require action and courage. the white paper does not necessarily include them, it is a map of theoretical options. in our view the commission should have made a diagnosis of what is not working in the eu, and the member states should have shown a clear political will to move towards a stronger europe.
in writing. we are concerned about the lack of momentum for the european project which we perceive in the commission and especially in the council. we are approaching the anniversary of the treaty of rome with a notable lack of ambition and of solutions to the real problems of the european citizens. the union must be led with ambition, action and determination. the governments of the member states are not showing a collective will to rebuild consensus, the main engine of the union. it is especially important to consolidate this europeanist political consensus in order to keep the european project viable after brexit and the tension with the nationalists/populists. the commission must lead the way in this process. the white paper on the future of the eu is an insufficient foresight exercise to see clearly what future europe has and whether it is worth continuing to trust in it. we citizens expect solutions that require action and courage. the white paper does not necessarily include them, it is a map of theoretical options. in our view, the commission should have made a diagnosis of what is wrong with the eu and offered concrete solutions.
in writing. we are concerned about the lack of momentum for the european project which we perceive in the commission and especially in the council. we are approaching the anniversary of the treaty of rome with a notable lack of ambition and perspective, and above all a lack of solutions to the real problems of the european citizens. the union must be led with ambition, action and determination. the governments of the member states are not showing a collective will to rebuild consensus, the main engine of the union. it is especially important to consolidate this europeanist political consensus in order to keep the european project viable, after brexit and the tension with the nationalists/populists. the commission must continue to lead the way in this process. the white paper on the future of the eu is an insufficient foresight exercise to see clearly what future europe has and whether it is worth continuing to trust in it. we citizens expect solutions that require action and courage. the white paper does not necessarily include them, it is a map of theoretical options. in our view the commission should have made a diagnosis of what is not working in the eu, and the member states should have shown a clear political will to move towards a stronger europe.
in writing. we are concerned about the lack of momentum for the european project that we perceive in the commission and the council. we are approaching the anniversary of the treaty of rome with a notable lack of ambition and perspective, and above all a lack of solutions to the real problems of the european citizens. the union must be led with ambition, action and determination. the governments of the member states are not showing a collective will to rebuild consensus, the main engine of the union. it is especially important to consolidate this europeanist political consensus in order to keep the european project viable, after brexit and the tension with the nationalists/populists. the commission must continue to lead the way in this process. the white paper on the future of the eu is an insufficient foresight exercise to see clearly what future europe has and whether it is worth continuing to trust in it. we citizens expect solutions that require action and courage. the white paper does not necessarily include them, it is a map of theoretical options. in our view the commission should have made a diagnosis of what is not working in the eu, and the member states should have shown a clear political will to move towards a stronger europe.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i think we are all aware of the very difficult year that the integration project is going to go through, in an already very deep crisis, and i have to say that the impression is of a worrying paralysis of the institutions. i also say this because of the white paper which the european commission has presented to us today, which is more a forward-looking exercise more worthy of a think tank than of an institution like the european commission, from which we would have expected to receive clearer messages and a clearer political path and commitment. this white paper seems to confirm in some ways what mr juncker had already indicated in the last debate on the state of the union: that the commission is increasingly a secretariat of the council and has less and less of a political role, which is very worrying. look, we need clear direction and it is clear that at the moment we have a very clear deadlock in the council on certain directions we need to take. but we do expect the commission to give some clear directions: reform of the eurozone, social pillar, democratisation. and since the next council is going to be talking a lot about immigration, reform of the asylum system and changing our policies in relation to asylum and immigration which have so far been a real disaster.
mr president, the next european council is going to delve into the original sins, despite seeing how this unsound project, this european union of centre and periphery whose neoliberal dogma impoverishes and deindustrialises, creating a europe of inequality and precariousness, is being deflated. they say they will focus on jobs, growth and competitiveness. we know him. precarious, for poor workers. and growth and competition of large companies and their profit and loss accounts. i no longer remember the youth employment plan or those plans for industrialisation at the beginning of the legislature. they talk about european defence and they lie, because it is a defence which is subordinated to nato, that is to say, to american geopolitical plans. and they talk as if refugees were a natural disaster, and they prepare mass deportations and even detentions of minors. and then they talk about trump. and not content with subcontracting to the erdogan dictatorship, they intend to subcontract to a failed state destroyed by nato, like libya. they follow the path of their failure.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, i believe that there is a great deal of agreement in this house and throughout europe on four important urgent issues: immigration; the social pillar; growth and employment; and european defence, which has been the subject of much discussion recently. i want to focus on this idea to point out that we are probably facing one of the most critical moments for the defence and security of europe, but also a tremendous opportunity to build this pillar of the european union that the founding fathers already thought of. my question or my point is to tell you that... be careful with funding a new security effort, because we are very likely not in a position to tell citizens that they have to cut budgets or social policy to spend on defense. and i think it is time to make a common defence, but it must be done with resources of its own that the european union itself builds up to serve this urgency and this objective. this is an idea that must be considered, because defence is necessary, but with the european union's own resources and resources, not with the budget of the member states.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, forgive me, but i find everything i'm hearing here incredible. it seems that you are now very concerned about migrant children, but you do not think about children when you build fences, when you close borders, when you deny visas, when you open detention centres or when you sign agreements with turkey, afghanistan or libya and feed the mafias. and everything that happens to minors is the result of those policies that you don't question. a good example of the consequences of these policies for minors is the situation in melilla. there are hundreds of children trapped there - some in centres, many others in the street, without schooling - and the spanish government can think of no other way to solve this situation than to negotiate an agreement with the kingdom of morocco to deport them, to deport the children. this doesn't solve anything, this just sends the problem away so it doesn't bother us.
mr. president, the situation is alarming. unicef has reported that in 2015, 96 000 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum - 20% of all children - and europol estimates that 27% of the 1 million migrants who arrived in europe in 2015 were minors. we must face this drama together: the union and each of the member states. first, we must look for the missing children, as many are being exposed to all kinds of abuse by criminal gangs and are being sexually exploited. we must also take responsibility, since many of them have disappeared while in european reception centres. children, feeling unprotected and unsafe, decide to run away, and that is when they can easily fall into the hands of organized crime. to avoid this, the reception conditions directive needs to be reformed. this is essential. in relocation, it is urgent that children be looked after and relocated and resettled, and quickly, especially those from greece and italy. and i want to ask for special protection for children with babies, girls and boys who are becoming parents, and for those i ask for special protection. and then there is the urgent need for the tutor's assignment: an immediate assignment, an immediate assignment.
mr president, commissioner, it is our duty, you said, but i must say that you are failing miserably. and those responsible have names: it is the member states and their policies which, as is almost always the case, are absent from this debate. unaccompanied minors are suffering physical and sexual violence and threats. and this favors the mafias and their trafficking networks, for example, in hungary, bulgaria, or croatia, reports save the children. but they also suffer violence at the hands of police and military, and that too must be said. in europe there are temporary prisons for these children, who continue to be the object of hot returns. and if many prefer the streets to the camps, it is because of fear of violence or deportation. let's not forget that their families have sold everything they have so that they can travel and have a chance, with the psychological pressure that comes with it. ladies and gentlemen, children are the most vulnerable, and many are being treated violently in europe. what has been done and not done so far is shameful, and they don't even have common procedures yet for identifying and tracking these minors.
mr president, commissioner, canada is an example and a benchmark in the world in the treatment of refugee children and, in particular, of children who are accompanied by a parent. why is the european union not? we had a very intensive hearing yesterday in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, during which we heard heartbreaking testimony, but also proposals for a response to the problem of unaccompanied minors in the european union. what does the commission expect from the member states to demand such answers? we discussed this matter here in april last year, we voted on it and we heard the commission commit itself to bringing forward a specific plan of measures to deal with the tragedy of unaccompanied minors. we're still waiting for him. we are reforming the european asylum system; that is where we have to frame the reform of the reception directive and the reception procedures and the procedures for the protection of unaccompanied minors so that, once again, the european union lives up to its promises and gives a response that is a measure of its height, of its moral stature in the face of this tragedy of ten thousand missing children in the european union - according to interpol - but above all, of 20% of unaccompanied minors, of all minors seeking refuge, as they are the most vulnerable link in the chain of refuge, but also of exploitation of persons.
mr president, commissioner, this statement was essential, given that europol has put figures to measure the problem: 10 000 unaccompanied minors disappeared in 2015. it means that at some point there was a record of where they were and who they were, but the worst part is how little we know about what happens to them and how much, sad and grave, we can imagine. if asylum seekers are already vulnerable, minors, women and other groups with special needs remind us of the intensity of a drama that already needs urgent measures. trafficking in human beings, which 'hunt' for desperate people and uses new technologies to find its victims, is best tackled through police and judicial cooperation, the definition of a specific crime, special attention at points of entry, rapid assignment of tutors and integration into integration programmes. but we need to know, commissioner, where these children are and we need to ask the member states to cooperate in these policies.
mrs president, commissioner, no one can claim to live in a modern society when data such as the one presented here today shows that women are paid on average 16% less than men in europe for the same job. and we are talking about the european average because there are countries, like mine, like spain, where according to reports such as those which have been released by the unions in recent weeks, we are in a 23% gap. so these data should make us see the need to push for real policies and set targets to reduce this wage gap. because if we keep at this rate, the data tells us that our grandchildren will have achieved the goal of equal pay, that it will take us more than 70 years to achieve equal pay. so let us be aware of the need to set clear goals. let's think about reducing the 2% wage gap in each country, each year. let us propose an audit - transparency is essential to put a mirror on those who are not complying with the law - and let us also be able to give the social partners the role they must play to prevent this situation. a society cannot be called just when women are in a situation of inequality such as we have at the moment in the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i know that it pains you and worries you that today women can represent citizens on an equal footing with you. i'm here to defend european women from men like you.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i think the commissioner has described the phenomenon very well. across the european union, with a 17% wage gap, if we count all incomes, we get to 40. and i have to say that things don't evolve. we are stuck, as has been pointed out. it also has a lot to do with the kind of measures, labour market reforms, that we have pushed for in recent years, because, of course, we have a problem with parttime work, which, moreover, has a very important effect on the rate of unemployment coverage and pensions. the fact that they are paid less also has an effect on pensions, because we have a 40% pension gap. so i think that the phenomenon is shared and that we must be brave here. the issue of transparency by companies that has been pointed out is important, but above all, we need to recover a very strong gender equality agenda. i have to say to the council representative that he has made us a bit of a notary of reality, as he has told us that if there were more women in leadership positions, this situation would improve. well, you have a directive, the directive on women in management positions in large companies, blocked. it would be a good idea to unblock it because that would also allow progress in this area.
madam president, commissioner, we have a perfect measure of the scale of the problem, and for the celebration of working women's day i would like to insist on a change of perspective on the pay gap and women's work. expressing the wage gap in euros is only part of the bill we pay for not taking full advantage of the talent and skills we despise because of inequality. the gender pay gap is the translation, in the labour market, of inequality, and to eliminate it is to promote reconciliation and co-responsibility at home, in the home and to assign responsibilities on the basis of merit and capacity without gender penalising. until we solve these problems, which start with the personal attitudes of all of us, women will work fewer hours and in worse jobs, we will be paid less for every hour worked and we will have lower employment rates and lower retirement rates. and an example of that change in attitude is today's debate: only four men have participated, and one of them to insult us. we must also change our attitude. it's a problem for all of us. it's a social problem of men and women.
in writing. no one can claim to live in a modern society when the reality is that women are paid 16.7% less than men for the same work. and we are talking about the european average... because there are countries like spain, where according to reports recently published by the unions, the gap can reach 23%. these data should make us see the need to push for real policies and set ourselves targets to reduce this wage gap. because if we continue at this rate, by 2086 women will not be paid the same as men, it will be our granddaughters who will achieve the goal of equal pay. the socialists call for a 2% reduction in the annual wage gap in each country, mandatory transparency in pay reports, a gender action plan in companies, audits to reduce the wage gap and support for the social partners to prevent this situation. a society cannot be called just when women are in a situation of inequality such as we have at the moment in the eu. women are not weaker or less intelligent, we are equal to men and have the same rights.
in writing. no one can claim to live in a modern society when the reality is that women are paid 16.7% less than men for the same work. and we are talking about the european average... because there are countries like spain, where according to reports recently published by the unions, the gap can reach 23%. these data should make us see the need to push for real policies and set ourselves targets to reduce this wage gap. because if we continue at this rate, by 2086 women will not be paid the same as men, it will be our granddaughters who will achieve the goal of equal pay. the socialists call for a 2% reduction in the annual wage gap in each country, mandatory transparency in pay reports, a gender action plan in companies, audits to reduce the wage gap and support for the social partners to prevent this situation. a society cannot be called just when women are in a situation of inequality such as we have at the moment in the eu. women are not weaker or less intelligent, we are equal to men and have the same rights.
in writing. no one can claim to live in a modern society when the reality is that women are paid 16.7% less than men for the same work. and we are talking about the european average... because there are countries like spain, where according to reports recently published by the unions, the gap can reach 23%. these data should make us see the need to push for real policies and set ourselves targets to reduce this wage gap. because if we continue at this rate, by 2086 women will not be paid the same as men, it will be our granddaughters who will achieve the goal of equal pay. the socialists call for a 2% reduction in the annual wage gap in each country, mandatory transparency in pay reports, a gender action plan in companies, audits to reduce the wage gap and support for the social partners to prevent this situation. a society cannot be called just when women are in a situation of inequality such as we have at the moment in the eu. women are not weaker or less intelligent, we are equal to men and have the same rights.
, in writing. as you know, the pay gap between women and men is, according to eurostat data, around 17%. on a daily basis, millions of women throughout the european union suffer what we might call silent discrimination, because, under the guise of similar salaries, precarious contracts, temporary work and the recognition of category bonuses mean that women receive lower wages, which unequivocally conditions their chances of a decent life now and in the future, when they retire. as you know, last year the european parliament regularly spoke out against the wage gap and denounced the precarious situation. as an example, there is the resolution, adopted on may 26, 2016, on poverty and gender perspective. what steps has the european commission taken to meet the demands expressed by this parliament in that resolution, particularly in paragraph 17? what have the member states done in the context of their meetings in the council? i fear that if we continue in this way, with this institutional paralysis without a real gender strategy, we will only deepen the mistrust towards european institutions that citizens have today.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union, which is a very important document. we have a serious problem with domestic violence and, unfortunately, not only in russia. the commissioner has asked russia to ratify the istanbul convention. i fully agree, but we have to recognise that 14 member states of the european union have not ratified the convention: bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, the czech republic, estonia, germany, greece, hungary, ireland, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, slovakia and the united kingdom. if we want to demand from the russian authorities a change in this legislation, if we really want to protect women all over the world, we have to set an example in the european union. and i have to say, unfortunately, that in my own country, spain, since the beginning of the year, an average of two women have been murdered every week in our country. so let us demand, but let us set an example too. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, there are many countries that have legislation on domestic violence, but, excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, we only have to look at the number of women killed and victims of violence to recognize that what we are doing is clearly insufficient. i have put my own country as an example: it is about protecting women, rather than a defense of our national identity. any legislation that backs down on the protection of women will be criticized by this member of parliament.
madam president, the partial decriminalisation of gender-based violence in russia is bad news for all women. it is a victory for patriarchy that parliament is lowering the laws against gender-based violence and thus paving the way for the impunity of these crimes against women and human rights. domestic sexist assaults, even when they do not cause serious injury, are also crimes. they produce suffering and attack our self-esteem, our health and our rights. decriminalizing them is a step backwards that reinforces the macho thinking that women are just the property of men, who can even have a say in our lives. this encourages a machismo that murders women every day. in the last week alone, in the spanish state, five women were murdered. that's enough! zero tolerance for the virus. no aggression without punishment. we must move from words to deeds. we therefore call for action by all means at our disposal, including a european directive to end gender-based violence.
blue card question. what is it? dear colleague, do you not consider that what is happening in russia is a return to the middle ages sponsored by the state? women and children are not sacks to be beaten. physical abuse, beating them physically, is unacceptable. i'm through. after signing this law, the russian president should not be called vladimir putin, he should be called "vladimir the terrible" or, perhaps better, "vladimir the beater". (the speaker did not receive an answer to the question. )
madam president, we have spoken on many occasions in this house about gender-based violence, saying that it is the greatest social scourge the world is currently experiencing. and also that it doesn't understand borders, that it doesn't understand territories, that women are being killed in the world for the mere fact of being women. and we are now in this situation, where the russian government passes a law that says that beating a woman once is not a crime, with such a chilling figure that about 14,000 women are killed in that country every year. i think it is important - we have already said this on other occasions - that the european union's foreign policy should have a gender dimension and, therefore, that it should include this gender dimension in relations with other countries and in cooperation policy, in order to prevent these situations and to ensure that women, inside and outside the european union, know that they have a voice in this parliament.
madam president, commissioner, the russian decision to decriminalise domestic violence goes against the global effort to combat gender-based violence. it is also a further example of the regression we have seen since 2014 in respect for fundamental rights in that country. the european union external action service, the council of europe and the united nations are some of the international organizations that consider that the decriminalization of gender-based violence within the home protects women, but also harms children and is not compatible with the european social charter that commits russia. we are therefore surprised that this federation is one of the four countries, among the forty-seven of the council of europe, which have not signed the istanbul convention, together with the fourteen members of the european union already mentioned. we therefore express our solidarity with the russian women and our support for the european union external action service in all its actions to help reverse this situation.
, on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, yes, as long as the united kingdom remains a member state of the european union, its government is obliged to respect the treaties it has signed, and the commission must ensure that they are respected and take action against those who violate them. in the face of the colossal uncertainty that brexit has generated, it is our duty to give certainty to all european citizens who have for years lived and contributed legally to the united kingdom and the countries of the union. on the initiative of my liberal colleague sophia in 't veld, we have set up a working party in this parliament with one clear common objective: to defend the rights of european citizens living in the united kingdom and british citizens living in the union. even before brexit, discrimination against my compatriots in the uk was already a reality. i know him well because i follow the facebook group "spanish in the uk" closely, which is now subtitled "surviving brexit". but, mrs may, i'm sorry, the rights are not negotiable. and the european citizens are not a bargaining chip.
, in writing. the reforms introduced by the european parliament only strengthen the commission's powers vis-à-vis the member states in negotiating intergovernmental agreements, with a view to bringing them into line with european rules. although arguments such as the need to ensure that member states' policies are compatible with the overall objectives of eu energy policies (such as energy efficiency and security) were raised in the debate, the commission itself acknowledges that it wants intergovernmental agreements to be 'substantially' revised to further liberalise the electricity and gas market, as set out in the third energy package and competition policy guidelines. the commission is thus being given new formal and informal powers to deregulate international energy markets, powers which it does not claim in the context of international agreements between private multinationals in the energy sector. i think we should be more cautious, especially at a time when the commission's external energy policy is more aggressive than ever, as we see with the attacks on russia and the dangerous alliances with countries like qatar.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, health systems are part of the social europe in which european citizens recognise and value each other; they are crucial to ensuring social cohesion and also productivity, which generate a healthy society. but they face challenges, like sustainability, because of the aging population, the increase in chronic disease, the emergence of new technologies. but today, we are mainly here because of the increase in pharmaceutical spending: 17% of all health spending 1.4% of the gdp of the european union. the high prices of medicines have put us, the developed countries, in a situation which we did not think we would ever face: hepatitis c - a disease with serious consequences, but which today, with a cure, has not yet been able to hope to eradicate, but we are giving priority, on the basis of guidelines, to its treatment, which is difficult to justify from an ethical point of view. but cancer also threatens 24 million new cases by 2030, a 68 percent increase from 2012. but this is not a question of ethics, it is also a question of rights. article 35 of the charter of fundamental rights protects the right to health. the medicinal product as such cannot be considered a consumer good, but must be specially regulated so that the patient is at the centre of access to it. but, in addition to prices and sustainability, we have the problems of shortages, the lack of adaptation to needs due to lack of commercial interest - in aspects such as antimicrobial resistance - or the need to put incentives - as is the case with orphan drugs - problems in competition for generics to enter or lack of innovation with small modifications in many cases. the price of medicines is set by the industry on the basis of value, lacking other balances that guarantee access to citizenship. orphan drugs are increasing in numbers that make one think that the criteria are being applied incorrectly, because they generate a quick business, a quick return on investment. they are concerned, as i said, about the competitive litigation which is making it difficult for generics to enter the market. all of this seems to be leading or may be leading to a business model that makes it difficult for european citizens to access medicines. the member states, with confidential agreements, with co-payment, in short, with different measures, try to find a solution, but in the end what we have is a more fragmented and more unequal market. the commission sets up public incentives, but they also do not guarantee that return to society through a fair price or access. the balance of power is crucial to us and, to that end, the therapeutic value added is crucial and must be established by the commission and the member states in a coordinated manner. we need a legislative framework, commissioner, to ensure this, and we also need to look at other economic and social criteria, of course, to ensure this. we need to assess the real impact of intellectual property on the promotion of innovation and the quality of innovation and, ultimately, on access to medicines, the social purpose which really justifies this fundamental right as well. we need to evaluate the public incentives put in place and also ensure the return on investment is fair with a fair price and guaranteed access. we need a better framework to ensure competition and entry for generics and rational use of medicines. but, most especially, today i want to call for - and we cannot delay any longer - a plan to eradicate hepatitis c. it is immoral, it is unsustainable that today, when we have life-saving medicines, we are not able to coordinate sufficiently to eradicate this disease. in short, this report proposes these and other measures and actions, and i ask the commissioner to take this initiative and, before the end of the year, to present us with a legislative proposal. parliament joins the council, the un and the oecd. it is a popular cry that we must respond to this just demand.
i would like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on his announcements. he takes up the glove, shows his commitment, announces that he is going to launch or make a proposal on the evaluation of technologies, in particular medicines. i think that will provide an answer, which will be very important for what some groups have claimed here: the need to have an objective criterion so that we can set a fair price and avoid excesses in some cases, as has been shown here. i welcome your review of incentives to meet the effective objective for which they are mandated or your review of the impact of intellectual property. the report also calls for a review of the directive, for a strategy to combat antimicrobial resistance, a strategy against cancer, also for paediatric medicines, of course, to address the shortage of supplies in countries, especially in the east, and for greater coordination and transparency between member states. in short, it is a complex picture, but i believe that in the report, with the help of everyone, we have been able to collect it, and we have been able to point it out for exploration, to reach what we all here have seen and shared. we share, and i think there is a general consensus, the need to ensure the sustainability of health systems and to guarantee access to medicines for european citizens. i can only conclude by thanking all the alternative rapporteurs - and also the rapporteurs for the deve, juri and peti opinions - for their invaluable contribution and, of course, their capacity for dialogue, so that we can have this report, which has enjoyed a broad consensus in the committee and which i hope will have the same support tomorrow, so that we can support the initiatives that the commissioner is going to launch and, in the end, improve the quality of life of european citizens.
mr president, parliament must know that the nissan plant in avila is a vital undertaking for the development of our land: hundreds of families depend on it directly or indirectly. the decision to immediately stop manufacturing the nt500 vehicle and to reduce the production of the nt400 model from next april would mean the loss of 500 direct and 300 indirect jobs and, above all, would be contrary to the industrial plan in force until 2023, co-financed by community funds and aimed, precisely, at sustaining the manufacture of these vehicles. i want to expressly acknowledge the importance of nissan in avila and all that it has contributed over the years, but the important thing in times of uncertainty is to guarantee the jobs linked to maintaining production. no one can lose their job. any solution must be based on the maintenance of job stability; any solution must be based on an agreement accepted by the workers and must not involve a loss of wages, work or geographical location. the commission must commit itself. we in the european parliament will fight for this and we will be vigilant.
mr president, this friday marks the one year anniversary of the murder of berta cáceres, human rights defender, feminist and leader of the copinh. despite the unanimous condemnation of this parliament and other international organizations, his murder remains unpunished today. according to amnesty international, there are judicial loopholes and a shameful lack of effective investigation. this situation is intolerable and sends a message of impunity, not only to this case, but also to the 123 activists killed in honduras since the 2009 coup. enough of the good talk, ladies and gentlemen. if we want to stop the killings, we have to send a strong message. the european union-central america association agreement must be suspended and bilateral aid to the honduran state, especially in the eurojustice programme, must be cut off. it is facts, not words, that ensure that human rights violations by states and companies do not go unpunished.
mr president, in recent days the trials of catalan independence leaders by the highest courts of justice in spain have been accelerating. we have to be very careful about the way we deal with the problems of the poorest countries. the commission responded by giving a vague, generic praise of judicial independence and by indicating that the commission's opinion is formed on the basis of surveys and bilateral dialogue with the national authorities, which are precisely the ones being denounced. i can see that i cannot expect much from the european commission in this respect. i therefore renew my complaint here. in spain it is becoming increasingly difficult to find judges and prosecutors in the highest magistratures who are not dependent on the will of the government and the main opposition party: they are elected by them and follow the orders of the state attorney general, also appointed by the government. in spain, the separation of powers is a democratic wish that has not yet been realised.
mr president, the president of this parliament said at the beginning of the sitting that he was very concerned about freedom of expression in the world. i would like to invite mr tajani to come to spain, where seven trials are being held this week for comments on social media. and that is that in spain there is repression, persecution and criminalization: for questioning the royal house, like the rapper valtonyc; for a tweet, like cassandra, strawberry or zapata; for a political satire sketch, like facu díaz; or, simply, for an ironic play, as happened to the puppeteers a year ago now. these are just a few cases, but there are more. and it seems that in spain, for a tweet or a song you can end up behind bars.
mr president, the spanish government has adopted a legislative decree to phase out the current system of port stowage and liberalize this sector. this decree was passed without social dialogue. it goes far beyond what the court of justice of the european union itself demanded; it jeopardises the continuity of dockers' jobs and makes their working conditions precarious. it does not take account of the negotiations which have been going on for two years between the trade union and the employer, or of the fact that both parties had already concluded agreements which were perfectly compatible with the court's judgment. we support an open and non-monopolistic model of the warehouse, but one which preserves the rights of employees and guarantees dignity in working conditions, safety and training. we do not want more precarious work or cheap redundancies; we want quality employment and policies to promote and protect it. we are very much afraid that in this case the spanish government is also going in the opposite direction.
mr president, i would like to begin by underlining the importance of the creative europe programme and congratulating silvia costa on her work. culture has a very prominent place in europe and can play a significant role in the process of european integration by helping to bring citizens closer to this process. now, when there is a certain lack of interest or even a lack of confidence in the european process on the part of the citizens, we need to do our best to make the citizens better acquainted with it and to make it feel like their own and useful. the european union today is based on very solid historical and cultural foundations, shared by the peoples of europe. the european union is not an artificial construct, nor is it the result of a movement that emerged after the second world war. it has very deep roots, and european citizens need to know this. in this connection, i think it is necessary to stress the importance of the european cultural routes programme, launched by the council of europe 30 years ago with the proclamation of the camino de santiago as the first european cultural route. commissioner, we must cooperate closely with this programme of the council of europe and support these routes, which i regard as a model of cross-border cultural cooperation. these routes are of tourist interest and thus contribute to the development of areas often far from the busy circuit of sun and beach. these routes also serve to preserve europe's rich and diverse historical and cultural heritage, to which the 'important declaration' of bratislava a few months ago refers. these routes are also very useful in teaching europeans and young people about the important historical, cultural, artistic and even spiritual ties which unite us as europeans, thus demonstrating the depth and solidity of the foundations on which the european union is built. as co-chairman of the parliament's intergroup on the development of european tourism, cultural heritage, the camino de santiago and other european cultural routes, i ask you to ensure that this creative europe programme contributes to the maintenance, improvement and promotion of the council of europe's cultural routes.
mr president, the creative europe programme for the period 2014-2020 is undoubtedly the most ambitious to date, both in content and form, but in those three years of implementation several shortcomings of the programme have been observed. the committee on culture has highlighted these issues in its report and we urge the commission to act as soon as possible. there are a number of priorities which the commission should pursue. firstly, it should outline the cross-sectoral chapter: the commission must verify the usefulness and functioning of the chapter, as the sectors complain about the lack of access to the appropriations. the audiovisual sectors are in a very competitive environment and we must give our creators the tools they need to continue producing quality work. in addition, the commission should coordinate and strengthen the creative europe offices in the participating countries to facilitate access for creators, create synergies and thus improve the use of resources. and thirdly, despite the 9% increase, the budget for this programme must be increased to enable a plural and diverse culture to be further developed within the european union and the neighbouring countries. the countries of the southern neighbourhood, which are not part of the programme, should also be encouraged to join this area of cultural diversity and opportunity. we must continue to invest in european culture: our cinema, our music, our literature, our artists. it is essential to support these sectors by providing them with funding, training and discussion: this is the greatest wealth we have.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking all my colleagues on the committee on culture and education, who have worked with me in a spirit of cooperation and mutual understanding on this report on the implementation of the europe for citizens programme. the europe for citizens programme is the only one of the european commission's programmes aimed at promoting direct participation of citizens in the union and fostering dialogue between the institutions, civil society organisations and local authorities. that is why we have asked the committee on culture to increase the budget for the programme so that the objectives set can be achieved. firstly, it should be recalled that the budget agreed for this programme for the period 2014-2020 was significantly reduced by 14% compared to the previous period. in parliament and in the committee on culture and education we have been asking for an increase in the budget, to the tune of 500 million euro, in order to be able to adequately meet the project proposals that reach the evaluation agencies. moreover, if we compare it with the budget for the erasmus and creative europe programmes, which we have just discussed, it is clear that a greater financial effort is needed for this programme. secondly, we have asked the commission to develop a more innovative communication strategy. it is essential that this programme is better known in europe. unlike others, europe for citizens is not as popular and participation is very low among non-governmental organisations, foundations dealing with european citizenship issues, local authorities and networks of regions and cities that are its target groups. we need a more effective and accessible platform, which allows for a thorough knowledge of the funds available and a strengthening of relations with the contact points in the member states. we want all local organisations and administrations to be fully aware of the possibilities offered by this programme and for the participating countries which have not yet done so to designate a national contact point. thirdly, we believe that the european memory area of the europe for citizens programme should take account not only of europe's past and its memory, but also of its future. we want to convey a historical narrative that is not obsessed with differences, but tries to overcome them in a spirit of integration. we believe that this project will contribute to a more optimistic and integrated vision of europe, with a view to forging a common future. last but not least, the report states unequivocally that the next generation of the programme should be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, putting parliament on an equal footing with the council. i would like to stress that as the only institution of the union directly elected by the citizens, the european parliament must play its role as the union's co-legislator when it comes to approving a programme specifically designed to encourage the participation of citizens. in my report i therefore urge the commission to find a suitable legal basis for the next generation of the programme, which will allow the european parliament to be genuinely involved in the process of adopting and implementing this programme. that is why i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the report as it was adopted in committee.
member of the commission. – mr. president, my colleague commissioner avramopoulos sends his regrets but has asked me to say a few words on his behalf. honourable members, the europe for citizens programme offers a unique platform to reach out to citizens and to engage them in a debate about the future of europe. in the year of its tenth anniversary as a fully-fledged programme with its own identity, the europe for citizens programme is well established. stakeholders and beneficiaries appreciate it as one of the most relevant means to involve citizens in shaping their – that is, our – european union. projects funded by the programme will now also offer placements for the european solidarity corps. this will allow young europeans to put their civic engagement into practice fully in line with the objectives of the programme. this is why i am glad that the european parliament has prepared this implementation report on the programme, which looks back at the first three years. i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur ms giménez barbat, for the commitment and the effort that you have put into preparing this report, which not only gives an overview of the programme’s implementation, but will also be an important starting point for the mid-term evaluation that we are currently preparing. it will provide some first orientations for a new citizenship programme beyond 2020. let me stress the elements of your report, which we shall have the chance to reflect on jointly in the near future. first, as you mentioned, the budget. under the current multiannual financial framework this has been a major challenge for the europe for citizens programme. participation in the programme has become very competitive and success rates have decreased to very low levels in some measures, and we need to look at that. second, the streamlined structure of the current programme, with the two strands focusing on european remembrance and on democratic engagement and civic participation, works well. it is positive, allowing for a more focused approach and increasing the programme’s impact. last, but by no means least, the issue of the legal base which you raise that could enable the european parliament to get involved in the adoption of a new programme as co-legislator. in view of the mid-term evaluation, let me assure you that the commission seeks the strongest possible cooperation with this house on both the political direction and the implementation of the europe for citizens programme over the four remaining years and of course looking ahead beyond 2020. in conclusion, can i just acknowledge the european parliament’s important role in both preparing and assessing the current europe for citizens programme. we are only at the beginning of our cooperation to give new momentum to this programme. the commission looks forward to continuing to work with parliament towards our common objective: to encourage the maximum participation of our citizens in building the european union of the future.
, on behalf of the epp group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs teresa giménez barbat, for the excellent work she has done and the good cooperation in the preparation of this report. in the current situation in the union - as we discussed yesterday - of rampant nationalism, populism and euroscepticism, we cannot sit idly by: we have a responsibility to combat them. the best way to do this is to involve citizens, to bring them closer to the union. to this end, it is essential to contribute to a better understanding of the union, its history and its diversity. the evaluation report of the europe for citizens programme demonstrates the success of these programmes in the medium and long term in combating these phenomena. this initiative is still young and little known, but the number of applicants for funding reflects the interest of citizens in getting involved in the european project: the quality of the projects submitted is a good sign of this. unfortunately, many of these projects have gone away empty-handed. this is due to insufficient funding. in the last financial framework - the rapporteur has said this - funding was cut by 14%. it's not that the projects weren't worthwhile, it's that there wasn't enough funding for so many projects. we must be more ambitious when it comes to contributing to a better understanding of the european union, its history and its diversity by citizens. i ask the commission to increase the budget to a minimum of eur 500 million, which is necessary to ensure the success of the programme. a europe for citizens will not be the answer to all problems, but it will make a substantial contribution to bringing citizens closer to the european project.
, on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report because i share her need to increase the budget for the europe for citizens programme. it is enough to recall that in some of its most important sections, such as that on historical memory, it only manages to finance 6% of the applications, not because of the lack of quality of the citizens' proposals, but exclusively because of the lack of money. i also agree with the idea, and i have tried to do so, that the contact points in each member state should help to give a better understanding of the programme to potential beneficiaries. and i say that because amnesia is playing a very bad trick on us. the same populist and ultra-nationalist ideas that signed off the biggest catastrophes in our history are now being presented as false solutions to our biggest problems. we should therefore devote more imagination, interest and resources to recalling the results of these recipes, to putting before the mirror of our history some regrettable speeches that are in tune with the harangues that justified and facilitated our past tragedies and to underlining that the european union was the effective and useful response to that language of selfishness, lack of solidarity, war, violence and poverty. that is why i am asking for more funds and why i am glad that, following a series of initiatives by several members, all the totalitarian regimes in europe are joining the ranks of nazism or stalinism, the first objective of this programme to help us recover our memories. that is why i am glad that the 80th anniversary of the spanish civil war is included among the activities eligible for funding for activities in favour of truth, justice and reparation. because, 80 years after the bombing of gernika, one of the two states involved in that massacre, a member of the european union, still does not acknowledge its responsibility and apologise for those events. because today that same state is not cooperating with universal justice in investigating and punishing all the crimes of the dictatorship, actions which, as the report very well recalls, would make it very difficult for someone with that kind of behaviour to enter the european union today.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for the debate this morning and for the report. thank you for the various comments, which i shall make sure are reported in full and shared with my colleague, commissioner avramopoulos. if i may, i would like to thank mr kelly. i have a very warm memory of the five years i spent, in one way or another, on the island of ireland. we have got this report looking at the three years of the programme. we need now to learn the lessons from that experience for the next generation of citizenship programmes. let me take this opportunity to stress again the importance of this work, to reconnect with our citizens and engage with civil society, in particular – as a number of people have said – with young people, to build an understanding of our history, to celebrate our diversity, and to counter intolerance, not least at a time when, here and there, we see the rise of polarisation. today’s debate is an important contribution to what is going to be our joint reflection on how best to take this work forward. let us use the europe for citizens programme to establish a public forum for this important debate about our shared future. let us work together to reinforce the programme as an instrument which can reach out and engage citizens across europe.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your kind remarks; thank you, commissioner king, for your position on the proposed legislation we are asking for. i recognise that speaking about european citizenship in these difficult times is a real challenge but, despite some eurosceptic views we have heard, it is realistic and necessary. european citizenship is at the heart of the idea of a genuine european union and is also the hope for its future. today this project is moving forward with difficulty, although it is part of the set of values that inspired the development of the union into something more than an economic club. in the complex historical and political context in which we are living, i believe that this report on the implementation of the europe for citizens programme is of crucial importance, because we want to have integrated programmes which encourage an analysis of our common past, overcoming the historical narratives and grievances which separate us. i want to see in this initiative the political expression of our refusal to accept a future of scepticism, selfishness and disunity among europeans. this programme is a strong and forceful call for european integration and solidarity. for all that, thank you very much, my dear colleagues.
mr president, commissioner, the proposal the commission has put before us was frankly bad. it was a proposal which was not in accordance with the minamata convention or our own waste legislation. the commission proposed the less stringent option, which is the permanent storage of mercury in liquid form, without treatment and exclusively in salt mines. it was a proposal apparently tailored to the present situation, despite the fact that from these storage sites - and according to written replies from the commission - more than a thousand tonnes of mercury have been illegally transported to switzerland, the netherlands and greece, to be sold in third countries. fortunately, parliament has rectified this and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr eck, and all the alternative rapporteurs, especially mr dantin, for their attention to technical and environmental arguments. from now on, mercury will only be allowed to be stored temporarily on the surface. final storage must be carried out in surface or salt mines and, if surface, must be solidified and treated. the best technicians and experts in handling mercury are in my region, in the county of almadén, the largest mine in the world, and they believe that mercury should only be removed if there is a prior treatment of solidification. finally, madam commissioner, i would like to invite the commission to appear before the committee on the environment to explain the fraud that has occurred, as i have said before, in recent years and to give us reliable figures and tell us what has been done and whether there have been any sanctions. and also, tell us whether you are finally going to authorize the treatment of mercury in its reversion to mercury sulphide in switzerland, because in switzerland the european union has no power to control. commissioner, i am sorry to express myself in these terms, but i beg you to understand me. i'm from almadén. a region that was rich and prosperous thanks to mercury and that today is depressed and depopulated while seeing that far away they are getting rich with mercury that has come out of their mines and is being sold illegally.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the rapporteurs who have been working with me on the report. it's been a pleasure, actually. i think we have done a good job of analysing the state of gender equality at the european union level. i would also like to thank - and i would like to mention it in particular - the european institute for gender equality, because without them, without their help, it would have been much more difficult to be able to produce this report - with all the analyses they do, the data they collect, the index they develop, which i think is extremely positive - from this point of view, i would also like to thank them. the report aims to send a very clear message, and that is that, judging from the data and the concrete analysis of certain indicators, we are stuck, if we do not take steps backwards, on gender equality at the level of the european union. and this is the first thing we have to recognize because this is not installed in the public debate, nor in the political debate. and i think it's important that we say that. if we take the indicator of the pension gap, it is not just that we are still at 40%, but that in half the member states the gap has widened. if you take the wage gap, we're at 16.2, which is basically the same level as we had in 2012; we've made practically no progress. in terms of political participation, progress in recent years has been only 6%. we're going very slowly, even in this house, where we've gone from a 30 to a 37. yes, there is progress, but it's very, very scarce. and then, the violence data. not only because of the cases we are seeing repeatedly in many of our member states, but also because of the data, and in this case the report refers to the study and the survey of the european agency for fundamental rights, based in vienna, which revealed that 33 per cent of women admitted to having been victims of some episode of violence in their lives, and 55 per cent admitted to having been victims of some episode of sexual harassment at some point in their lives. so i think we have to acknowledge that this data is not good. and the question we have asked ourselves and shared with the other speakers is how the institutions are responding to this question. and it's true -- and this is not just at the level of the european union, but also at the level of many member states -- that the equality agenda is pretty much blocked. we have had times when there was a lot of ambition in this area - even here, legislatively, and in many member states - and now this is no longer the case. and of course i have to refer to some of the things that are going on, particularly in the council. the commission withdrew the maternity leave directive because of the council's blockade - although we are obviously waiting for commissioner jourová to present to us, as she announced last time, on the 24th, the new package of measures, which we are obviously prepared to work on getting through - but we also have the directive on quotas in the blocked boards, and, in the area of violence, we are in the process of ratifying the istanbul convention, and one of the things the report calls for is that this be done as quickly and as swiftly as possible, and for all those member states which have not yet done so to do so as quickly as possible. but we also want to call for a specific instrument to combat gender-based violence at european union level, which we believe is absolutely essential. and of course, other calls we make are very important. as regards the directive on quotas in boards of directors, if we take the results in norway, for example, we see that the results are very effective, and i think it would be good if the council would unblock this dossier once and for all. the same is true, for example, of the wage gap. we have the announcement this week from the icelandic government that it's going to force all companies with more than 25 employees to explain how they ensure equal pay within the company. well, these are measures that i think we should also be replicating at the level of the european union. and the last thing i have to say is that we want the european commission to have a strategy on gender equality again. i think that is a wish shared by this house and that is my last request.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, although the european union is fully committed to gender equality, and we recognise it as one of our core values and objectives, the effort is still insufficient. different studies show that in the last decade there has been a slowdown in this reduction of inequality, if not a step backwards. and we must give new impetus to this, and that is why the committee on budgets has made some proposals. we are asking, for example, that all chapters of the european budget have clear gender objectives and that the budget allocated to achieving them be specified. that projects funded by the european union have gender indicators, both in the selection of projects and in their monitoring and evaluation. the amount allocated to the annual financial framework for achieving gender equality is a first step, but when we look at the latest figures on the cost of inequality it is clear that it needs to be increased. and finally, we also call for a genuine gender budget for the next financial programming. we need a real political will to deliver on our commitment and build a more equal and fair europe for all.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would of course like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs from the groups and the alternative rapporteurs for the work they have done on these reports. i think it is essential that this parliament should be the voice of those who are expressing concern about the stagnation and the backward steps being taken on equality in the european union. of course we have made progress, of course we are an example in terms of our policies in other territories outside the european union and that one of the fundamental values of the union is that of equality between men and women, equality of opportunity and equality of rights. but unfortunately, the politics of recent years have caused a serious setback in all policies, both economic and rights-based. the austerity policy has been serious with regard to those policies aimed at the provision of public services to which, in many cases, women had access to favour policies of reconciliation between personal and working life. but also, the rights policies. we have seen clear examples of attempts to legislate our own lives, our freedom of choice, from different member states. and i think that makes us see the need to make progress in recognizing our rights, because those who do not recognize the road ahead will find it difficult to take action in the fight against gender violence, the elimination of the wage gap and, of course, the pension gap, the issue also referred to in the budget from a gender perspective. and of course, let's not forget the political representation of women. because women must be represented in all those areas where important decisions are made about our lives: in the political, economic and trade union spheres. and in that sense too we have a responsibility to move forward.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mrs jourová, congratulations to mr urtasun and mrs moody on these timely and necessary reports. it is now more important than ever to remember that equality in europe is still a task for all of us. the wage gap should be a source of shame for us europeans and it is not a myth, it is a fact, because the figures do not lie. the wage gap in europe is around 20%. in the case of pensions, it is doubled to 40%. for those who argue that this is a matter of belief, make no mistake: the devil is in the details. it is not that a european woman is paid less when she is hired because she is a woman, no. i will give you an example: in jobs with different names but similar qualifications, those held by men are better paid. and that's data. a secretary and an administrative assistant with the same duties and the same responsibilities and functions are paid differently. a cashier at a supermarket charges less than a greeter. that is to say, it is, among other things, the description and valuation of the posts. do you know what one of the antidotes to this is? transparency, publishing, asking companies to publish job listings, their content and their remuneration. some - in the height of hypocrisy - claim that the gap is due to women's free choices. well, some say we're getting better, and it's true, but in a shockingly slow way. the european commission says that if we do not take action, it will take 70 years to close the gender gap. 70 years! we can't afford to wait 70 years. it has actually taken mr korwin-mikke, who is not here today, a little over 70 years to become famous for his despicable xenophobic, racist and sexist statements in this house. i thank president tajani for his apology on behalf of the european parliament and i hope to hear soon what sanction he will be given and i trust that it will be the maximum possible. because, mr korwin-mikke, even if you are not here to hear this, i too find it hard to believe that you and i receive the same salary, that european citizens spend the same tax money on you and me, and that our respective votes have the same value. but that is the rule of representative democracy, because there is no pay gap between meps. mr korwin-mikke is paid the same as mrs marine le pen or mr farage or myself or anyone else here. the gap we really need to close in parliament is the one that ignores or ridicules our work, that puts a mirror of fairness between citizens and their representatives, that only shows euro-phobic punches, nazi-like sexism or morbid appointments. because achieving true equality between men and women will not be a victory of one over the other, but a shared achievement. because we all win with a more just society, one that doesn't waste the talent, the effort and the competition of half the world. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i, as far as you are concerned, am very glad that your party has such a high level of participation, but your party wants to destroy the european union. and what we are talking about, equality in general, but equality between men and women as a fundamental pillar, is what the european union is built on. then i see a contradiction in your terms. i am glad that you are actively participating as women, but it would be better to participate to build up rather than to destroy.
mr president, may i thank all the rapporteurs for the good work they have done. europe needs gender equality not only for the sake of social justice, freedom and dignity for all human beings but also to foster economic development, prosperity and wellbeing across the union. we cannot wait another 70 years, as the commission estimates, to achieve full gender equality. we need to speed up the rate of change now, and for this we need specific policy initiatives and political commitment from every single european government – also, of course, the european commission. advancing legislation in the following areas seems to me essential: fostering equal sharing of care responsibilities and domestic work between men and women; suppressing the gender pay gap under the principle of equal pay for work of equal value; better regulation of parental leave and maternity leave; improving access for women to decision-making positions; and, finally, fighting gender-based violence.
mr president, madam commissioner, in the face of machismo and patriarchy we need this parliament, the commission and the member states to really believe in gender equality, because it is a political principle for moving towards democracy, social justice and human rights. in short, towards a just society. we still have no equality strategy, madam commissioner, even though the pension gap - as has already been said here - is around 40% and the average wage gap is 16%. let us also talk about gender-based violence, because in europe one in three women has suffered physical or sexual violence at some point. in spain, in the short time we have had in 2017, twenty women have been murdered. and we also defend our right to terminate a pregnancy freely in the face of conservative attacks. laws without a budget or with a minimal budget, as happens in my country with the dependency act or the comprehensive law against gender violence, are just wet paper and a toast to the sun. please, commissioner, do not take this as a politically correct speech, but as something strictly necessary for a just society.
mr. president, i would like to thank comrade ernest urtasun for his great work. this report shows that europe is falling halfway towards achieving gender equality, and what is really important here is to ask ourselves what are we doing while more than half of women are sexually harassed, what are we doing while women are paid less than men for the same work, what are we doing while women are excluded from management positions in companies and institutions. and, more importantly, what are we going to do? will governments continue to cut back on equality, will they continue to block the directives on motherhood and fatherhood and on quotas on company boards? the european commission must now take up these directives, integrate the gender perspective in a comprehensive way into all its policies and have a gender equality strategy. less talk and more action.
mr president, thank you to the rapporteurs for their work on these reports. i believe that an honest approach to advocating for gender equality should put people and care at the centre of policy, just as they are at the centre of life. we need to understand that the unequal participation of women in the labour market and the inequality between men and women are also related to the unequal distribution of care tasks. therefore, public authorities must assume their responsibility by promoting a new social and public system of care that allows all people to care, that allows all people to be cared for and that values the potential of care as a mechanism to create jobs, to generate social and economic development, to promote social justice. we must advocate for a strategy at union level to introduce a gender perspective in all actions, programmes and public policies for the period 2016-2020, and that is through gender budgeting and gender budgeting, which would allow us to combat gender-based violence in a coordinated way across the union, something we have not been doing so far.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i strongly agree with all of you who said here repeatedly, many times, that we need to act in this policy of gender equality with a sense of urgency. we desperately need to see progress. but it is not only progress in terms of statistical data, but also progress in terms of improving the atmosphere in our society. and here you all know that we are in a very difficult era of a worsening atmosphere in society, so we need to be much stronger in combating all the factors which create this worsening, including online, which is a big topic that has not been covered here. however, i strongly disagree that what we do is only words. we take a lot of concrete actions. by the way, apart from words, what is stronger than the words we have? i esteem so much, i value so highly the fact that president tajani today apologised for the shameful statement which we heard here last week. these are strong words which show the whole of europe the values we stand for. it is very important that we are brave enough to say the words we believe in, and we do a lot of concrete things to fulfil the promises we make. the debate showed that we are addressing the proper problems with our strategic engagement, because as you know, there are four priorities: equal pay for equal work; increased employment of women and their economic independence; relevant representation of women in decision-making positions; and significantly decrease the level and scope of violence against women in europe. we need to use all the instruments we have, not just legislation. you have also rightly declared here repeatedly that what we need is proper enforcement of the current legislation. we have a lot of anti-discrimination pieces of legislation, and we need to be much better in enforcement. we also have to use other instruments to better target the problem in individual member states. that is why we are more frequently using the so-called country-specific recommendations, which last year addressed the specific problems in member states. but we need to address the issue of the atmosphere in society. we need better funding; we need to fund proper campaigning to address the main problems. you know that we are now organising a very strong – and i would say loud – campaign which shows that we have the goal of zero tolerance to violence against women. we are funding and we are organising the campaign in all the member states, again targeting specific forms of violence in the member states. i would like to say that in the proposals of this commission you can hardly find any cases of positive discrimination. please, read the latest version of the women on boards directive. this is gender neutral. we want diversity on boards. you cannot find anything which could be called social engineering. believe me, as somebody coming from a former totalitarian country, i am extremely sensitive about this, and in our package to enable the people to better combine work duties and family life, we are very careful to open up the choices so that people can choose how they want to live. if mothers want to stay at home with the children, they can. if they want to go to work, they should not be prevented from doing so by the barriers which are still present in the eu. this is why i am very sensitive about everybody who criticises the commission for engaging in social engineering, because simply it is not true, and i am happy to present this in the new package on work-life balance. last comment on eu funds: i worked for almost 20 years in the field of eu funding, and i remember times when there was a goal which was called gender equality. as applicants for the money, we were ticking the boxes: gender-equal project? yes! it was so artificial and so discouraging for all those who really wanted to do something to help gender equality. i am one hundred per cent for better use of eu funds, better policy and better achievement of goals in gender equality, but let us do it in an effective and efficient way so that we are not using the eu money for counterproductive results. so thank you for your comments. after every discussion on gender equality, i am more encouraged and more inspired to do the everyday work. i am looking forward to further cooperation with you.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who have contributed to the debate. i think that was an important debate. i have to admit that sometimes i have the feeling that, as a relatively young person who takes many things in our society for granted, we sometimes find ourselves defending elements of equality between men and women that we thought we had already conquered, and to have to face demonstrations like that of our polish colleague - as many of you have mentioned - is obviously deeply shocking. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the member for the avaaz campaign to collect signatures in favour of sanctions - which i believe has been signed by a great many people - and also to urge mr tajani to make this sanction, which he will announce this week, as forceful as possible. i would like to invite everyone, members of parliament, but also especially the commission and the council... look, we have two options: either we wait 50 or 70 years to achieve equality in terms of the wage gap, the pension gap, etc., which are the calculations the commission itself has made about how long we will need at the current rate, or we do something. and to do something means to get down to work on something the commissioner has said: better enforcement of the law. yes, but also, commissioner, making laws is important. i know that many things are not up to you, most things are blocked in the council. we are fully aware of this, but we would like to be able to work hand in hand with the commission and parliament to get some things through the council. look, if in this parliament we get the council to unblock the directive on board quotas and we get all the member states to ratify the istanbul convention, that would at least be a good sign that the issue of gender equality is back on the table, because now we have a little bit of a feeling that it is no longer. it is no longer on the table of governments or the european union or anyone else, and with the data we have, it is more urgent than ever that it should be put back on the top priority list.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: article 23 of our charter of fundamental rights recognises equality between men and women and provides for measures to be taken in favour of the 'less represented sex'. the report omits further references to gender gaps that harm men and boys. legal measures are rarely stipulated when the least represented or most disadvantaged sex is male. we talk about the historically unfair "glass ceiling" that women face, but we pay less attention to other areas of work and life where men and boys are more disadvantaged: work accidents, suicide risk, school failure, etc. men are also disproportionately affected in certain areas of health, are more vulnerable to risk behaviour, have weaker social networks and report less of the violence they experience. some of these indicators are reflected in the statistics in the report itself. i believe that these gender imbalances in our initiatives end up hurting men and women, because it is by working together that we can build a more free and equal society.
mr president, rabbits are the second most exploited animal species in europe, with spain, france and italy being the countries with the highest production. on factory farms, they live miserable, brutally short lives, sick, and unable to express behaviors typical of their species. since almost all of these animals are crammed into such small spaces that they cannot jump or stretch normally, some countries have already taken measures in this regard, such as belgium. it is therefore also time for the european union to adopt its own legislation for the welfare of rabbits. i have therefore tabled, together with mr eck, the amendment to have european legislation in this area, and i call on all members to support it and the report. tens of thousands of people in europe are demanding it and millions of living things need it. no more cages.
mr president, recently, mep janusz korwin-mikke filled this house with hate speech, with discriminatory, racist, misogynist and cowardly speech, because the voice of hate is the voice of fear. today i want to take the same stage and voice the courageous voice of a million european citizens who have signed - we have signed - through the civic platform avaaz, a petition so that this action does not go unpunished. today we have an obligation to demonstrate to the european citizen that our institutions uphold the values of tolerance, integration and equality on which the european union is founded. we therefore call for a strong sanction and for legal means to be explored to prevent this parliament from being a voice of hatred and discrimination.
mr president, today the venice commission is publishing an opinion on the reform of the spanish constitutional court by the popular party government. the report is very critical, despite the pressure from the spanish government. the commission notes that the constitutional court's independence is affected if it delivers a judgment and it must also enforce it. the commission also seriously questions the constitutional court over the repeated practice of imposing coercive fines and disqualifying democratically elected public officials. today another spanish court has disqualified the former president of catalonia and two of his ministers. the report shows that the reform of the constitutional was done ad casum to oppose legitimate attempts to achieve independence. if we in this house criticise the lack of rigor and the politicization of justice in certain countries, we must also do so, and i do so severely, when it comes to spain.
mr president, on 18 february in barcelona, hundreds of thousands of citizens demonstrated to demand change, to demand change, in the border and asylum policies of europe and the member states. the solidarity of millions of europeans is being challenged by the institutional failure to respond justly and effectively to the arrival of people seeking refuge from war and violence. many are appalled at the inability to put the relocation system into operation, and that countries like spain, after committing to take in 16 000 people, have only taken in a few hundred... many of us are ashamed of the deaths in the mediterranean, 5,000 in 2016 alone. we therefore demand that the member states fulfil their obligations, that refugees be treated with humanity and dignity, that 'humanitarian visas' be allowed to enter europe legally and that the deaths in the mediterranean cease.
mr. president, two years of disqualification from holding public office and a 36,500 euro fine. this is the price that the spanish state pays for putting the ballot box in order to allow catalans to decide our political future. the price has been set today by the high court of justice of catalonia with an anti-democratic ruling, after a shameful political trial. our former president and two of his former advisers will pay the price, but in the end, it will be democracy that pays the price, which is weakened by such attacks. if this is a warning to sailors, here's another one. they won't stop us. not with sentences, not with fines, not with any other kind of threats. because in catalonia there are thousands of public officials who will not forget our commitment to democracy and because there are hundreds of thousands of catalans who will also defend our right and our democratic dignity. the spanish state puts a price on the ballot box, but we know that freedom has no price.
mr president, it is difficult to counteract in just one minute the work that has been carried out for months by one of the most powerful lobbies in the world: the arms industry lobby. all those of us who have worked on this report have, i think, been able to feel their pressure, and that is that we have not addressed the big business of selling arms to criminal dictatorships or to countries in conflict. we are basically talking about the sale of arms to private individuals in europe, but that is not a minor issue either. there are 25 million gun owners in the european union. many studies and common sense tell us that more guns and more lax legislation lead to more deaths from firearms. more controls and stricter regulation are needed, and don't use hunting or collector's guns or shooting sports as an excuse not to do it. ladies and gentlemen, do not try to make a right out of what is really a business. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is blue card. madam president, i think you have completely misunderstood my speech. what i have said is that there are members in this house who are using gun collectors, sportsmen or hunters as an excuse. they're using them as an excuse, because they really don't want more controls, they don't want tougher regulation. i'm just saying that they're being used because i understand that this report, this legislation, is going to allow these groups to continue to use weapons.
mr president, this debate brings up an old dichotomy: freedom versus security. and it is true that the commission could be understood to have short-term concerns, but it is no less true that it has gone to excesses, over-regulation and a bias in favour of security, depriving freedom. it has therefore been criticised, and rightly so, but fortunately the dialogue between the sectors concerned and in this house and with the council has corrected this excess, producing a proposal which is very much worth appreciating. the text we are about to vote on, ladies and gentlemen, is the result of a more measured analysis than that originally presented by the commission. it is a text that has been enriched after having taken into account the demands of sectors of society that had much to say on this matter. the agreement that has now been reached addresses the key issues in the sector, helps to restore the right balance between the right to legally possess a firearm and the safety of citizens. as a result, we have a report which aims to consider and evaluate what measures can really be useful in dealing with crime. it includes some new features that will allow us to deal with the risks that lurk in public safety. the rules on the market in firearms are strengthened, inter alia by introducing a new obligation to mark all essential components to avoid the reconstruction of weapons that have been dismantled. it also added a new provision to establish a common system for the systematic exchange of information between member states, which is essential for the proper functioning of the system and for security. this proposal is a very comprehensive document seeking consensus, which was previously complicated. you couldn't kill flies with cannon fire, but dialogue, understanding, rationality and balance have produced a standard worthy of being voted on, and i will do so.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin my speech, also in the same vein as mr torvalds, by acknowledging the work and the willingness of the rapporteur, mrs simona bonafè. now, we need to send a clear signal to the council. i think the commission could have been more ambitious in december 2015, but i commend the words spoken now by mr timmermans. this is a model of society we want to have and which we will pass on to our children and grandchildren; it is about reconciling sustainable development with the environment and, of course, fighting climate change. we need to promote systemic, comprehensive change, which involves the design of a new paradigm. the commission and council should promote the spirit of collaboration, development and innovation embodied in this legislative package. and the global vision should be combined with the local vision. this means taking account of the vital role played by the administrations closest to the citizen. and this must be done precisely in conjunction with social and civic movements. if we do that, we won't need to explain to society what we're doing, because you'll have taken part in and led the process. i thank the rapporteur again and i encourage the commissioner to do everything he can, as he has said, to ensure that the ambition and spirit of what the european parliament is proposing is not lost in the trilogues.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs bonafè, and the alternative rapporteurs, especially mr florenz, on the great work that this package has involved. the circular economy package as a whole is, in my view, ambitious and coherent. however, i think we need to go deeper into ecodesign and waste prevention, because no matter how much we improve management, if the reduced level keeps increasing, we are not going to solve the problem. it is important to respect the waste hierarchy at all times to avoid shortcuts that may favour one option over another. i think it is essential that there should be clear concepts and definitions for setting new objectives. this is how we will ensure that all data and methodologies are comparable and homologable. the waste directive must clearly distinguish between municipal waste on the one hand and commercial and industrial waste on the other. that is why i would like to ask for support for amendment no 251, which includes the criterion of quantity in the definition of municipal waste. removing this word from the definition may mean opening the door, including commercial industrial waste in municipal waste. this makes it difficult to manage this waste, which is the real objective of this regulation. finally, we must not forget that all the measures we take will be of little use if we do not make consumers aware of the importance of the circular economy.
mr president, i have to say... commissioner, i welcome the package on the circular economy which is being discussed here today. a package that will be good for the environment, for the climate, for health and for the economy. i particularly welcome the increase in the targets set by the rapporteur, which are necessary to reverse the pattern of consumption and production we need, and their positive effects on job creation. the european union has made progress in waste management in recent decades, but today it is still very uneven between countries and municipal waste, in more than a third of cases, continues to be dumped and less than half is recycled. in short, an ambitious and positive package to change consumption patterns. now i would also ask the commission that, in order to be effective, this package should address the challenges of financial instruments, technical skills, consumer behaviour and business models of governance, so that 'as i say' these objectives are carried out and achieved.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs bonafè and the other rapporteurs on the great work they have done on these four reports. the circular economy is not just the modification of four environmental directives, but a powerful tool in the fight against climate change and a change in economic and production models, for which european industry must be prepared, and we know that it has already started to adapt. in catalonia itself, the bufalvent site in manresa is establishing business practices of cooperation in waste management that are turning it into a fully circular site. we could find many other similar examples around the union, which give us hope that the path we are embarking on today - and for which we will necessarily need the council's firm commitment - will be a success, helping to re-industrialize europe, helping to create new jobs and consolidating much more sustainable, low-emission economic growth, in line with the commitments reached at the cop.
in writing. in the case of the opinion i was responsible for in the itre committee, the opinion on waste disposal, we would like to see the introduction of a waste management hierarchy to avoid incineration and disposal as much as possible. however, it is worrying that the management of this process falls massively on the private sector and that incineration continues to be promoted as an alternative to landfills (even with advantages for energy input to the grid) when in some regions its environmental impact may be higher. i would also like to stress that we have put forward proposals of great importance, such as the progressive closure of landfills, public consultation with municipalities and other stakeholders concerned, the recovery of closed landfills, the audit of existing landfills and greater control of waste. in spain (with four pending judgments on illegal landfills) landfills are unfortunately still used on a massive scale. impact assessments are avoided by expanding capacity, the levels of use of capacity are not controlled, etc. leading to environmental and public health emergencies which we hope the new directive will help to combat.
in writing. the member states set themselves the objective of identifying measures that the european commission will have to put in place in relation to the so-called 'circular economy'. the ultimate aim of the new european circular economy package is to promote the transition from a linear economy, where the maxim of 'use and throw away' is paramount, to a circular economy where waste is minimised and treated as a useful resource. in short, it is about making products reusable after they reach the end of their useful life. in this way, we will not only create value, but also influence climate change and the environment, and boost global competitiveness, sustainable economic growth and job creation. the generation of waste is a heterogeneous reality which makes it difficult to reuse it as a quality raw material, because there is no adequate separation and classification from the source. it is also well known that each member state separates differently, even between regions within the same state. we therefore hope that the new legislation will guarantee the quality of the waste generated and thus the quality of the raw materials so that they can be really reused.
mr president, i have to say... of course, the new us government has declared war on feminism. and it has done so by cutting funding to ngos that work to ensure information and help women who want to terminate their pregnancies safely. it is unacceptable and we therefore need to respond with state and union funds to the humanitarian challenge posed by the united states. commissioner, you will recall that this parliament last month adopted recommendations for this global gag law to be forcefully denounced at next week's united nations meeting on the legal and social status of women. they should, because women's rights and freedoms are not a bargaining chip that depends on the political color of a government or who wins an election. within or outside the european union. they must be rights won and permanent. it is a right that each one can freely exercise control over her body. no one is forcing anyone.
madam president, i have to ask you. an estimated 225 million women in developing countries would like to prevent or delay pregnancy, but lack access to contraceptive methods and available health services. more than 800 women and girls die globally every day from preventable causes related to pregnancy and childbirth, including unsafe abortions. let's not get confused. we are not now faced with a debate on abortion yes or abortion no. the gag law of the trump administration is blocking funding to all those organizations that are working in the health field, saving women's lives and facilitating access to family planning methods. i therefore believe that it is necessary to shift the sensibility of this parliament to a measure which is endangering the lives of millions of women. the commissioner has told us of the commitment that exists on the part of the european commission with regard to funds for this matter. but we ask for more. we want a commitment to compensate for the lack of funds caused by this stinging law. we welcome the 'she decides' initiative of the dutch government to compensate for this lack of funds. and, moreover, just this morning, in a report adopted by a majority in the european parliament, we called for a greater contribution from the european institutions in this area. we are talking about the lives of millions of women who cannot access these family planning services if it is not for the work of these ngos, who i think deserve, here today, a great deal of thanks for the work they are doing.
in writing. 225 million women in developing countries would like to prevent or delay pregnancy, but lack access to contraceptive methods and health services. more than 800 women and girls die every day worldwide from preventable causes related to pregnancy and childbirth, including unsafe abortions. we are not faced with a debate on abortion yes or abortion no. the trump administration's "gag law" is blocking funding to all those organizations that are working in the health field, saving the lives of women and children and facilitating access to family planning methods to prevent unwanted pregnancies. it is very important that this parliament denounces a measure which is endangering the lives of millions of women. we welcome the 'shedecides' initiative of the dutch government to make up for the lack of funds. we have adopted a report calling for a greater contribution from the european institutions in this area. we are talking about the lives of millions of women who can only access health services thanks to the work of ngos, who deserve our thanks and help.
in writing. 225 million women in developing countries would like to prevent or delay pregnancy, but lack access to contraceptive methods and health services. more than 800 women and girls die every day worldwide from preventable causes related to pregnancy and childbirth, including unsafe abortions. we are not faced with a debate on abortion yes or abortion no. the trump administration's "gag law" is blocking funding to all those organizations that are working in the health field, saving the lives of women and children and facilitating access to family planning methods to prevent unwanted pregnancies. it is very important that this parliament denounces a measure which is endangering the lives of millions of women. we welcome the 'shedecides' initiative of the dutch government to make up for the lack of funds. we have adopted a report calling for a greater contribution from the european institutions in this area. we are talking about the lives of millions of women who can only access health services thanks to the work of ngos, who deserve our thanks and help.
in writing. 225 million women in developing countries would like to prevent or delay pregnancy, but lack access to contraceptive methods and health services. more than 800 women and girls die every day worldwide from preventable causes related to pregnancy and childbirth, including unsafe abortions. we are not faced with a debate on abortion yes or abortion no. the trump administration's "gag law" is blocking funding to all those organizations that are working in the health field, saving the lives of women and children and facilitating access to family planning methods to prevent unwanted pregnancies. it is very important that this parliament denounces a measure which is endangering the lives of millions of women. we welcome the 'shedecides' initiative of the dutch government to make up for the lack of funds. we have adopted a report calling for a greater contribution from the european institutions in this area. we are talking about the lives of millions of women who can only access health services thanks to the work of ngos, who deserve our thanks and help.
madam president, double standards in human rights are the worst thing that can happen to human rights. and listening to the commissioner's priorities, it's very clear. double standards and use as a political weapon. you spoke to us about children's rights, you said, word for word: 'no child left behind'. and then we go to the un human rights council, with the turkish deal on the flap, a refugee agreement that has been criticized by unhcr, by the un human rights rapporteur, who say gravely that it is not compatible with european law or international humanitarian law. are you sure there are no children left in turkey? that is a lie, inspector. it speaks of freedom of belief: we support it, but we have had radical groups as interlocutors who did not respect that. and in syria, he speaks of a humanitarian crisis. look, i was in aleppo on friday and we were told by the red crescent and christian leaders - the maronite catholic archbishop - that the humanitarian aid of the european union had reached the place where the terrorists were, but not now, when the area has been liberated. we have to look at ourselves, uphold human rights within our borders, not use them as throwing weapons. then we can make recommendations. i assure you, lessons, none.
madam president, commissioner, the least that citizens can ask of us is that we be consistent. only five months ago we voted in favour of the report on corporate responsibility for human rights violations. on that day we all took a stand in favour of the adoption of binding instruments which would oblige companies to the great 'madness' of respecting human rights. consistency means that we repeat today what we voted then, in order to set the priorities of the union in the un human rights council. it is a great incoherence that this institution is pushing with great energy the 'free bar' of multinationals through the arbitration courts while stopping any attempt to hold accountable those who violate human rights for pure profit, promoting the most heartless impunity. the case of berta cáceres is just one of many. i therefore trust that you will join in demanding that the commission, in line with what this parliament has so often called for and also with the principles of the union, support the binding treaty on business and human rights in the united nations, so that women human rights defenders can find justice and redress.
madam president, i have to ask you. thank you for your work, inspector. we live in a world where values are for sale. however, there is one thing that should never be, and that is respect for human dignity. we are the hope for all people living in countries where their rights are violated, and in their name the european union is and must remain an example of defending and promoting human rights at international level. i will mention a few of the issues that are being discussed in the council, such as the one on women's empowerment. the security council unanimously adopted the resolution renewing the women, peace and security agenda and strengthening the protection of women and girls in armed conflict and their role in such conflicts. another priority issue on the international agenda is the situation of millions of migrants and refugees fleeing hunger, poverty, oppression and abuse at the hands of human trafficking mafias. we need to tackle this in a global and long-term way. terrorism is considered one of the most serious international threats at the united nations. we must also give a firm answer to those who want to destroy our model of open, plural and tolerant life. let us always remember the victims of terrorism, because they gave their lives for our freedom. this resolution condemns the persecution of all religious minorities, especially the persecution of millions of christians in the middle east and africa by jihadist groups, to which we cannot remain indifferent. i would like to end by mentioning the united nations high commissioner's statement on venezuela, denouncing human rights violations such as the arbitrary detention of opposition leaders and his immediate call, to which this house and i agree, for his release.
madam president, commissioner, you said in your speech that human rights must be promoted and protected. that is what i am asking the commission to do: to put the question of western sahara on the agenda of the united nations human rights council, starting with the re-establishment of minurso, with a full mandate to observe and protect human rights. i have just arrived from rabat, where i was an observer at the trial of the gdeim izik prisoners. i have seen the violation of the fundamental rights of saharawi political prisoners. torture-related accounts are used as evidence and the istanbul protocol does not allow for the investigation of the facts. there is a condemnation against morocco by the united nations committee against torture. how can you ignore this fact in your report? intimidation inside and outside the court, including the arrest of a saharawi journalist at the courthouse gates. if it is firm in its defence of human rights, the european union must act to free the saharawi political prisoners and to hold the referendum on self-determination immediately.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has been a very useful exchange, and i thank the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate i conclude that we all share a common vision of human rights as a flagship of our external policy. as you recalled, this is not an easy moment for human rights worldwide. among other things, the challenges to freedom of expression, the shrinking space of civil society and the threats against human rights defenders continue to preoccupy us. last week i was in mosul and saw on the ground all these atrocities carried out by isis. i have witnessed the victims of these atrocities and i met many victims from the yazidi community. i do of course share your concerns and warnings about all these things. we are increasingly aware that cooperation by human rights defenders with un agencies can expose them to reprisals. this is exactly what we want to address with our ‘protect defenders’ mechanism. we also look forward to supporting the recently-appointed un assistant secretary—general for human rights to deal further with this issue. for the european union, the protection of human rights is always a work in progress, and this is also true inside the european union. we are still far from perfect and we have a duty to uphold the highest standards here at home if we want to be credible. but let us also be very clear: there can be no relativism on human rights. we should not curb our ambition to see credible institutions addressing human rights violations, to pursue the rule of law, and to protect media freedom and a strong and independent civil society worldwide. this is an area where more positive results can be achieved, provided the eu speaks with one voice. i am grateful for parliament’s support to push for eu unity in this policy field.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am very pleased to appear before the plenary here today to successfully conclude our work on the regulation on official controls. this is a very important piece of legislation. it is, as you know, the result of the joint and dedicated efforts of the parliament, the council and the commission. the outcome is, i believe, a credit to all three institutions. indeed, they all recognise the importance to provide member states’ authorities with effective and efficient enforcement tools to ensure the coherent application of european law. consumers and businesses should feel reassured that the control system across the eu is fit for purpose and safeguards the safety and quality of the entire agri-food chain. in particular, the new regulation will, first, introduce a more comprehensive approach to official controls along the entire agri-food chain by extending its scope to cover plant health and animal by-products. second, it requires member states to regularly perform controls to identify fraudulent practices and enable the establishment of new european union reference standards for the authenticity and integrity of the agri-food chain. third, re-enforce rules on financial penalties for fraudulent or deceptive practices by requiring that those penalties reflect the economic advantage either of the operators or a percentage of the operators’ turnover. fourth, introduce new provisions for the protection of whistle-blowers reporting on possible cases of non-compliance. fifth, strengthening the mechanism of administrative assistance and cooperation among member states in case of cross-border non-compliance. six, create a common framework of carrying out border controls on animals and goods entering the eu. and finally, seventh, increase the transparency of official control activities carried out by national authorities. the regulation is a major step forward to provide national enforcers with the powers and tools to effectively deliver on their control tasks. i therefore look forward with both hope and expectation to a broad agreement and endorsement of this file. our work will, of course, continue with the development of delegated acts and implementing acts and through the practical implementation of the new rules, once adopted.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president i'm not sure. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs kadenbach, on her work and also thank all the alternative rapporteurs, the council and the commission for the spirit of collaboration we have had during the negotiation to reach this agreement. if i may, i would also like to make a special mention of our former colleague, mr schnellhardt, who was responsible for this report in my political group at the first reading. he very strongly defended the role of official veterinarians, which is one of the most debated issues. the regulation will continue to maintain the key role of veterinarians, but at the same time allow for some flexibility by being able to delegate some tasks. it will of course always allow the specificities of the member states to be taken into account in the interests of subsidiarity, and these delegations will also be very regulated, clearly specifying which tasks can be delegated and whether or not the veterinarian has the power to supervise, and clarifying who has the ultimate responsibility. another very important point, which parliament has fought for and achieved, is that checks are generally carried out without warning and on the basis of risk. this will enable the control bodies to manage resources according to those sectors which most need to be controlled. as i have said on several occasions, the european union has the best legislation on food safety, traceability, animal health and animal welfare, and we must monitor compliance with it. we don't need any more legislation. what is needed is more controls and an effective system of sanctions to deter those who break the law. i think we should welcome the fact that fraud is now part of the scope of the regulation. all risks will be taken into account, not just the health risks. recent scandals in the food chain made it clear that sanctions were not enough. from now on, the perpetrator of fraud will be sanctioned not only according to the economic benefit obtained but also according to the turnover of the company or person committing the fraud. the regulation we are about to adopt also clarifies the measures to be applied in respect of imported products, which also have to be controlled and have to be subject to the same rules as european products. cases such as xylella fastidiosa, which continues to affect our olive trees dramatically, or the black spot on citrus fruit are examples of the importance of controls on imported products. funding has also been a controversial issue. given the complexity of the issue, we have tried to strike a balance, because we need food security at the same time as we need to make sure certain controls are carried out. and to do that, they have to be funded. the agreement has maintained the status quo of the existing regulation, i.e. compulsory levies for the meat sector and imports, which will allow member states to have sufficient funds to control all sectors at risk. i would add that above all there will be a great deal of transparency with regard to the funding and the way in which the funding has been provided.
commissioner, three brief remarks on this debate: firstly, we ask that in developing this legislation specific rules be adopted so that home-made products and small-scale processing have their own legislation to allow their continuity and sale on local markets and short-distance sales. secondly, the strengthening of controls must prevent pests such as the solanivora tecia, known in galician as the guatemalan potato blight, from continuing to enter the territory of the european union and spreading through our countries. thirdly, we are calling for legislation to tackle the source of the biggest food scandals. i am referring to the logic of the industrial production mode. and i want to remind you that meat meal was legal and it caused one of the biggest scandals known in the european union. today's controls will not prevent the gmos or pesticide scandals of tomorrow.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am grateful to parliament for its important contribution, hard work and constructive approach throughout the development journey of this file. today i heard broad support in our debates. i can only agree that implementation is key. i am sure that member states – especially now, when the economy is growing – will allocate sufficient resources for that. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs – mr pirillo, under the previous term, and mrs kadenbach, under the current term of parliament – for reaching an agreement in the political negotiations. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the teams involved in the negotiations for all their efforts and valuable input. i think they are on the right track and that we will see very good results.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the basis of the council and commission statements on the follow-up to the taxe committee recommendations and updated information on the reform of the code of conduct group on corporate taxation (2017/2600 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. as has already been said, the panama papers and lux leaks revealed the urgent need for the union and its member states to combat tax evasion and avoidance and aggressive tax planning and to promote greater cooperation and transparency, making our tax systems fairer and ensuring that corporate taxes are paid where value is created. the commission has not provided any evidence that the tax authorities of the member states have been able to establish that the taxable profit of the taxpayer is not affected by the taxation of the taxpayer. we need a joint effort, at european and international level, to prevent aggressive tax planning, increase transparency and create a fairer environment for businesses in the european union. at the beginning of last year, the commission presented new measures against corporate tax avoidance. these new rules are essential to harmonise tax legislation in the 28 countries of the european union in order to combat aggressive tax practices by large companies effectively. the agreement on the criteria and process for drawing up and approving a pan-european list of non-cooperative jurisdictions in tax matters was also approved at the end of last year. the aim of creating this list is to promote the good standards that the european union already applies in tax matters. the criteria for inclusion of jurisdictions in that list shall be tax transparency, having a fair tax system and implementing the oecd recommendations against base erosion. the list of non-cooperative jurisdictions and sanctions, the commissioner added, should be presented before the end of this year, and i am sure there will be some absences. that said, i welcome the work done by the code of conduct group, the european commission and the european council. but let us not forget that there is still much to be done.
mr president, i have to say... i want to give you an alarming fact, ladies and gentlemen. since the directive on the exchange of information on tax rulings between tax administrations has already entered into force, rulings have increased. attention: the system of exchange of information has entered into force, but states are making more rulings with companies. and this has an explanation, and that is that the member states of the european union consider tax sovereignty to be a core element of their tax competence, of their economic competence. and this means that when you look, for example, at the records in the secret chamber of the code of conduct that we are examining, you see that the states reserve the right to make agreements with the companies. this looks great. and here is the problem: we have to harmonize taxation in a very broad sense, and the states do not want to. that's the problem. i think we have to tell the european council that it has to help make this work better, because that is not going to do us any good.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president we are on the threshold of the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome and at the greatest crisis of this project of european union. yes, with a white paper under your arm. it would be a disaster to follow any of mr juncker's choices. it would also be a disaster if the next budget of the european union did not emerge from the calculated ambiguity and the half-baked solutions. the report speaks of the need to strengthen european identity. but who wants to feel part of something that leaves refugees freezing to death at the borders, privatizes the public sector or drowns debt-ridden countries while bailing out bankers? the european identity is built on material policies that do not leave people behind. and please stop referring to the epp's brilliant idea of giving young people travel to make them feel european. it is insulting. do you really think a young man can go on a trip when his family doesn't come at the end of the month? the budget is a key instrument for this: to raise more own resources, with progressive european taxes and national contributions balanced with the per capita income of each country and with a serious plan for european public investment, with social and environmental criteria and not with austerity and military deployment, as we are seeing.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, it is a good time to take stock of what the european union has meant for the continent. and i think that certainly, there's no doubt that it's been a positive effect. the 60 years of european history have been positive. but that does not mean that there is not much to be done, much to be improved and, of course, much to be changed. issues such as unemployment, especially youth unemployment, the care of refugees, environmental protection and the fight against tax evasion must be at the top of the european agenda. we need a sustainable europe in all areas. sustainable economically, environmentally and also socially. and to meet these challenges, we must use all the tools and, of course, the budget. we therefore believe that the budget should be used to the best of its ability. it must be a tool for solidarity, both internal and external, and a decisive factor in the fight to eradicate poverty, to achieve sustainable development and to create a knowledge society. europe needs a change. i'm sure you do. and it is up to us to give answers to the concerns of the citizens. and, if we are talking about the future of europe, i certainly have no doubt. as an african proverb says, if you want to go fast, walk alone, but if you want to go far, better walk with someone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's internal and external challenges are high and growing. nevertheless, we have to confront them with a budget that represents less than 1% of the union's gross domestic product - 50 times less than what national governments spend in total. even if the eu budget were highly efficient, it seems difficult to use these figures to deliver results in key areas such as unemployment, climate change, research, competitiveness, migration or social cohesion. the debate on the next mff, particularly in the context of brexit, and also the debate on the eu's own resources put back on the agenda by the monti report will be a good opportunity to test the political will to turn wishes and objectives into reality through a strengthened eu budget.
the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the world's largest exporter of food. the european union is a major exporter of food, and it is the world's largest exporter of food. it's a certain and immediate risk of death. millions of people are starving. and the cause of all this is an explosive mix: war, poverty, climate change. as always, climate change affects the poorest; conflict affects women and children first; poverty affects everyone. i support the commissioner's package, which we are receiving today, and i hope that we can quickly get it through parliament so that we can help millions of people who are at risk of dying.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate patricia on the agreement she has reached. we have spoken many times in this chamber about the digital revolution, the internet of things, about millions of devices being connected to each other, about the deployment of 5g. this decision that we know today is fundamental to making all this happen, because without enough spectrum, none of this is possible. this agreement is positive, and it's positive because it frees up spectrum for mobile access, providing a new lane for a whole new generation of services. it is positive because it gives certainty in the sub700 band to broadcasting services. and it is a good thing because, as this parliament has repeatedly called for, compensation is made possible, in particular for end users, for the costs of migration. in short, this is an agreement that puts europe on the right track to achieve its connectivity objectives, which, as the rapporteur has said, is something very important, very important for our society, but very important for our economy.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president i welcome the consensus reached in this parliament to provide flexibility for the transition from the 700 band to 2022 and to ensure, by 2030, the presence of terrestrial broadcasting in the sub-700 band, and to base any subsequent decisions on this spectrum on social, cultural and economic objectives of general interest, with the involvement of all stakeholders. i believe that this approach should serve as a reference for the future of the digital market in europe, including 5g and the new communications code. we must be able to regulate to ensure that the promotion of new digital uses does not deepen the digital divide between urban and rural areas or between generations. we must regulate in order to maintain strong public services in the field of broadcasting, as a guarantee of own production and quality, and as a source of truthful information. we must regulate to fight against the concentration of the digital market in a few platforms that steal works from creators and workers of culture and prevent them from fair remuneration, replacing information and creation with sensationalism and advertising. and to do that, we need to forge a partnership with workers and creators to jointly define the transition to the digital future. beyond today's decision, we have a great deal of work ahead of us. i also take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur.
mr president, europe is today bordered on the north by populism, on the south by refugees drowning in the sea, on the east by putin's tanks, on the west by trump's wall, in the past by war, in the future by brexit. europe is more alone than ever, but the citizens do not know it. europe, however, is the best solution, and we do not know how to explain this to the citizens. globalisation teaches us that europe is today the inevitable, the only alternative. but brexit also teaches us that europe is reversible, that it is possible to walk backwards in history. although it's very cold outside europe. brexit is the most selfish decision that has been made since winston churchill saved europe with the blood, sweat and tears of the english. saying brexit is the most unsound way to say goodbye. europe is not a market, it is the will to live together. leaving europe is not leaving a market, it is leaving shared dreams. we can have a common market, but if we do not have common dreams, we have nothing. europe is the peace that came after the disaster of war. europe is forgiveness between french and germans. europe is the return to freedom of greece, spain and portugal. europe is the fall of the berlin wall. europe is the end of communism. europe is the welfare state, it is democracy. europe is about fundamental rights. can we live without all that? can we just give all that up? for a market, we're going to leave all that behind? i hope that the next summit in rome will say less than europe owes us and more than we owe it after all it has given us. the european union is the only springtime our continent has ever experienced in its entire history. i am one of those, mr tusk, who, the day prime minister may announces brexit, will start dreaming of the morning when the british go home.
mr president, i have to say... ladies and gentlemen, the council is committed to continuity, not just because of the election of donald tusk, who is infamous for his phrase 'do not come to europe', a phrase which is symbolic of the policies of institutional xenophobia of a fortress europe, which, incidentally, are electoral fuel for the rise of the far right in europe. continuity by affecting cuts, even by evolving towards a europe at different speeds, widening the inequalities between the centre and the periphery. in a few days' time we will be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, an anniversary which has brought the european union into a deep crisis, where neoliberal and austerity policies are the main sabotage of the european project. in the face of the crisis, the european union is betting on militarization with the european defence fund, which will only benefit the arms companies and their lobbies in brussels. if we want to save the european project, we must radically change our policies. we can start, as historian perry anderson said, by burning the maastricht treaty.
mr president, we did talk about the future of europe and we talked about a number of scenarios that the commission presented to us. i want to start by saying that some of those scenarios should not have even been presented. they are an unacceptable setback for the european project. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we should talk about a flexible europe, but i accept that flexibility is needed to build europe. the problem is what kind of europe, as mr pittella said this morning, what kind of europe we want. and i would like to stress that there is also a gap, a major difference, between those who want to make europe more integrated, in economic policy and in social policy. there is a southern europe which is suffering from the economic policy of recent years: a policy of excessive austerity and a policy without a social soul. and this policy which we must pursue together must respond to the demand of the whole of southern europe for a european economic policy for jobs, growth and social justice. if not, there will be no common europe.
mr president, president-in-office of the council, last week thousands of europeans demonstrated in european capitals under the slogan 'pulse of europe'. in front of the institutions, showing courage and commitment, with a will to rescue europe. they do not want a europe that is decadent, paralysed, let alone a europe that is going backwards. they want a europe with more integration and less veto power. and that requires political agreements, such as the versailles agreement, but also reforms, and above all the will for a more social and fiscal europe, with a clear message. we have a challenge in the immediate future, and that is brexit. we must be very clear about what it means and what it costs to leave the common project. and also to put an end to the hypocrisy of enlargement, which is a message not only to turkey but to all the other candidates. it is essential to make the anniversary, the 60th anniversary of the construction of europe, an occasion to say that we are responsible for rescuing europe and to be up to the standards of the citizens who are taking our colours by demonstrating for it.
mr president, i have to say... 60 years of the european union: nothing to celebrate. as long as small and medium-sized farms continue to disappear; as long as small-scale and low-cost fishing continues to be attacked; as long as thousands of people continue to lose their jobs; as long as thousands and thousands of young people are unemployed and those who do find jobs have fewer rights than our generation; as long as there are still working men and women in poverty; as long as our rights won over many years of struggle continue to be pushed back; as long as we are unable to attack macho terrorism forcefully; as long as public debt remains a business or the euro a blackmail on the people; as long as austerity policies continue to attack our public pensions, our education and our health care system, there is nothing to celebrate. change european policies if you really want citizens to have confidence in europe.
in writing. the situation facing the european project is too critical for the european commission, the european government, to limit itself to raising a series of scenarios in its long-awaited white paper on the future of the eu, some of which should not have been presented because they are an unacceptable setback. europe cannot be a single market again and nothing more, without european citizenship, without common policies and without the programmes of territorial cohesion which have put countries like ours on the path to modernity, prosperity and economic progress. it is essential to develop a social pillar in the eu, responding to the most urgent needs of citizens hit by the crisis - especially in southern europe - establishing a european minimum wage and a common ground for decent working conditions. we want to deepen economic and monetary union, launch an expansionary policy and strengthen our fight against tax fraud and evasion. perhaps, in the present context, the best solution to achieve our objectives is the one proposed a few days ago in versailles, namely europe at different speeds. a flexible europe, yes, but with a social soul.
in writing. the situation facing the european project is too critical for the european commission, the european government, to limit itself to raising a series of scenarios in its long-awaited white paper on the future of the eu, some of which should not have been presented because they are an unacceptable setback. europe cannot be a single market again and nothing more, without european citizenship, without common policies and without the programmes of territorial cohesion which have put countries like ours on the path to modernity, prosperity and economic progress. we socialists believe it is essential to develop a social pillar in the eu, which responds to the most urgent needs of citizens hit by the crisis - especially in southern europe - and which establishes a european minimum wage and a common ground for decent working conditions. we want to deepen economic and monetary union, launch an expansionary policy and strengthen our fight against tax fraud and evasion. perhaps, in the present context, the best solution to achieve our objectives is the one proposed a few days ago in versailles, namely europe at different speeds. a flexible europe, yes, but with a social soul.
in writing. the situation facing the european project is too critical for the european commission, the european government, to limit itself to raising a series of scenarios in its long-awaited white paper on the future of the eu, some of which should not have been presented because they are an unacceptable setback. europe cannot be a single market again and nothing more, without european citizenship, without common policies and without the programmes of territorial cohesion which have put countries like ours on the path to modernity, prosperity and economic progress. we socialists believe it is essential to develop a social pillar in the eu, which responds to the most urgent needs of citizens hit by the crisis - especially in southern europe - and which establishes a european minimum wage and a common ground for decent working conditions. we want to deepen economic and monetary union, launch an expansionary policy and strengthen our fight against tax fraud and evasion. perhaps, in the present context, the best solution to achieve our objectives is the one proposed a few days ago in versailles, namely europe at different speeds. a flexible europe, yes, but with a social soul.
in writing. the situation facing the european project is too critical for the european commission, the european government, to limit itself to raising a series of scenarios in its long-awaited white paper on the future of the eu, some of which should not have been presented because they are an unacceptable setback. europe cannot be a single market again and nothing more, without european citizenship, without common policies and without the programmes of territorial cohesion which have put countries like ours on the path to modernity, prosperity and economic progress. we socialists believe it is essential to develop a social pillar in the eu, which responds to the most urgent needs of citizens hit by the crisis - especially in southern europe - and which establishes a european minimum wage and a common ground for decent working conditions. we want to deepen economic and monetary union, launch an expansionary policy and strengthen our fight against tax fraud and evasion. perhaps, in the present context, the best solution to achieve our objectives is the one proposed a few days ago in versailles, namely europe at different speeds. a flexible europe, yes, but with a social soul.
in writing. the situation facing the european project is too critical for the european commission, the european government, to limit itself to raising a series of scenarios in its long-awaited white paper on the future of the eu, some of which should not have been presented because they are an unacceptable setback. europe cannot be a single market again and nothing more, without european citizenship, without common policies and without the programmes of territorial cohesion which have put countries like ours on the path to modernity, prosperity and economic progress. we socialists believe it is essential to develop a social pillar in the eu, which responds to the most urgent needs of citizens hit by the crisis - especially in southern europe - and which establishes a european minimum wage and a common ground for decent working conditions. we want to deepen economic and monetary union, launch an expansionary policy and strengthen our fight against tax fraud and evasion. perhaps, in the present context, the best solution to achieve our objectives is the one proposed a few days ago in versailles, namely europe at different speeds. a flexible europe, yes, but with a social soul.
mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i voted against the guidelines for the budget of the european union because their neoliberal line is the cause of the crisis of the present european project. let us take the example of agricultural policies. for years, the cap's objective has been to guarantee fair pay for farmers, sustainable rural development and food sovereignty for europeans. the new cap forces farmers to abandon their professions because the aid is insufficient and inadequate and forces them to produce for a volatile market, at the mercy of the big distributors and marketers. market orientation distorts the use of public funds. we need greater involvement of public administrations and representatives of workers and farmers in the definition of investment programmes, and we need a budget that is up to their ambitions, capable of redistributing resources between the centre and the periphery of europe.
mr. president, every victim, every family, demands justice and appropriate support from us. and we still have to make progress in this area. society is asking us to be effective in counterterrorism. we've prevented a bombing. the european agenda on security has certainly made progress with determination, and this parliament has not hesitated to put aside differences in order to reach broad consensus: on the pnr, on the counter-terrorism directive, on so many issues. suicide-associated terrorism is certainly very difficult to combat, but they haven't done all the damage they could have done in 2016. but despite this, 133 people were killed in the european union in that year, and 31 europeans were killed outside the european union. the death of these innocent human beings has served as a propaganda tool and advanced the perception of fear. we have improved the regulatory and operational framework and we are more effective in dealing with threats, but we are still reactive, more reactive than proactive. and to anticipate, to have intelligence give us all we can, we need a stronger will from the states. the experts say so and this parliament is calling for it: mandatory exchanges of information, european intelligence, anticipation and work on preventing violent radicalisation. because, as effective as we are in stopping terrorists, if the legitimacy of violence is rooted in youth and social environments, we will find ourselves in a much more dangerous phase. the operational agenda is not moving at the same pace as the prevention agenda. we can't settle. and if anyone wants proof of the need for a stronger and more integrated europe, this is very clear: in the european union we are more, and better, and stronger to defend freedom.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm with the victims, sir. managing the security of half a billion people with limited skills is a complicated but necessary task. threats to the union, terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime require a response that engages member states, based on criteria of trust, cooperation and coordination. madrid, london, copenhagen, paris, brussels, nice and berlin are episodes of pain for europeans and constitute the lethal imprint of indiscriminate selective terror. the security agenda and the commission communication are tools of the union to adapt the response to the threat. legislative and operational developments produce results, but never enough. terror kills, intimidates, extort, kidnaps, without any human or compassionate criteria. the union is fighting it with the law and with guarantees. the disproportion between attack and response is so exaggerated that we can never produce instruments of total security. this reality must be embraced to improve it. from national security we must move towards the collective security of the union; cooperate more and better in the police, judicial and criminal intelligence fields; improve external border control; prevent radicalisation by acting in communes, schools and prisons; neutralise opaque funding channels; move forward on the interoperability of 18 information exchange systems; improve the regulation of weapons, precursors and explosives europol and its celt and its eu iru and eurojust are essential agencies for the safety of europeans; and increase visibility and protection for all victims.
mr president, i have to say... first, a memorial for the murdered and our condolences to the family. brussels gives us clues as to what went wrong, even the contradictions in the way this problem is being tackled. the terrorists were europeans radicalised in our ghettos, trained in syria and known to the secret services. information must be coordinated, always under the control of the rule of law. they were trained in syria, as are over five thousand europeans fighting there today. that is to say, we must talk openly with the syrian government on counter-terrorism, as our secret services already do in a hidden way; abandon the policies of destabilisation, the support for so-called moderate groups which are really terrorists; stifle funding; put pressure on our partners so that, for example, the border with turkey is not an entry and exit point for fighters or oil; arms embargo - there can be no chance of weapons being sold legally in terrorist hands - prevention of wahhabi and takfiri radicalisation and, above all, an economic and cultural plan for our ghettos, rich in inequality, unemployment and precariousness.
mr. chairman, this is union security commissioner julian king. we all remember perfectly well where we were a year ago when the bombs exploded in brussels, at the airport and in the metro, and since then there has been no accompanying pain and the commitment of infinite solidarity with the victims and their families. the terrorist threat is a real problem, but that does not mean that the responses since then have always been in the right direction, or that they have been sufficient. the first response was in the wrong direction: to suspend the free movement of persons, to re-establish internal borders and even to suspend schengen. because those terrorists who hit us so hard didn't come from outside. and there is still insufficient specialist protection for victims of terrorism and, of course, insufficient interoperability of the information available. we have made progress in the schengen information system, but not enough to build a true european information and intelligence community. nor have we made much progress in preventing the radicalisation of jihadism in prisons and networks, or, of course, in identifying the sources of funding. because we want to tighten up the money laundering directive to track the financing of the terrorist threat and the weapons that terrorists have, which are certainly not the weapons that are legally held in the european union. but above all, we must recover the fight against inequality and exclusion, the ghettoization of jihadism, which is at the root of the terrorist threat, and bet on peace in our troubled neighborhood. all this has been the consequence of austerity... (the president withdraws the floor)
madam president, terrorism is a global phenomenon that seeks to destroy our societies. the area of freedom, security and justice which we want to establish cannot therefore become a license for terrorism to creep freely through it. i think it is important to stress that four thousand citizens of the european union have joined terrorist organisations in countries such as syria and iraq. and i think, commissioner, that we should take advantage of the fact that 82% of the citizens of the european union are calling for greater involvement of the european union in the fight against terrorism on two fronts: on the internal dimension, that is, through the european agenda on security, and also seeking cooperation between member states and third countries in the area of preventing young europeans from becoming radicalised on the internet, in the area of financing and money laundering and in the area of prevention and control, commissioner, and in all communication campaigns, putting the emphasis - and i will end, madam president - on the essential human factor, the human being. and above all, i want to remember the victims, who ask for memory, dignity and justice.
in writing. one year after the brussels attacks, it is time to take stock of the progress of the european agenda on security. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. in the last 12 months, the eu has adopted the directive on the use of passenger name records (pnr), new anti-terrorism rules and mandatory checks on all those crossing the union's external borders. other initiatives are under way, such as the revision of the schengen information system and the criminal data information system, and the launch of a new authorisation mechanism for travellers entering the eu without a visa. we socialists also insist on issues that are not so much discussed, such as the need to tackle the root causes of terrorism, giving priority to integration, education and the fight against money laundering that helps to finance terrorism.
madam president, in 2014 the commission published a weak proposal on a terrible problem of which europe is a party responsible: the exploitation and trade of blood minerals. a year later, this house took a stand, with broad support, picking up the voices of citizens and organizations that were asking us for a robust law that would mandate control of the entire value chain, from mines to our devices. after two years of negotiations with the member states, the result is only half-hearted, it does not solve the problem at its root, but it puts a patch on it that perhaps calms the consciences of those who are satisfied with very little. the lobbyists have worked hard. the torpedoing of this initiative has been constant. i'll tell them we'll always be in front demanding that they comply with human rights. we shall vote in favour of it, because it is better than nothing, because the direction is right, but the ambition is not. we will vote "yes" with a broken soul for this missed opportunity. we'll vote yes, but we're thirsty. we will vote in favour, but we will come back, again and again, to ask for everything.
madam president, i have to ask you. - what? i shall vote 'yes' tomorrow on a single regulation because it obliges direct european importers of gold, tungsten, tin and tantalum to ensure that they do not come from mines controlled by armed groups or from areas affected by serious human rights conflicts. we have a moral duty to prevent the trade in these blood minerals, which are essential in the manufacture of our mobile phones, cars or washing machines. this regulation is a clear example of how european trade policy acts in defence of human rights. against trump, who just announced that he will repeal the law that regulates it since 2010 because it hurts the profits of his industry. but there is a big challenge. the great challenge on which the socialists will continue to work is to ensure its effectiveness by means of good accompanying measures. because if it is found that the companies which are obliged to apply the regulation are evading it, or that the companies which are exempted are not voluntarily complying with it, or that the legislation has harmful effects on the mining stocks, we will demand that the obligation be fulfilled and extended to 100%. a big step forward, but a long way to go.
in writing. the new regulation to be voted on is an important step as it will allow the origin of direct imports into the eu of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold to be known. it's certainly a lot better than having nothing. we know that the extractive industry is unfortunately one of the sectors where human rights violations, including child exploitation, are most frequently reported, as well as being a source of funding for corruption, mafia organizations and arms trafficking. however, the measures are insufficient. the european commission, the member states and even the right wing in this house could do much more to ensure that the origin of all manufactured products complies with international human rights standards. this is also the case for mining and the import of coal from third countries. the commission itself acknowledged in its reply to one of my questions that the european union does not control the origin of coal and that only a few companies report on a voluntary basis. it is intolerable to schedule the death of the mining sector while at the same time encouraging the energy sector to consume coal of dubious origin. not everything is worth importing cheaper.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, five points: 1. we are very reluctant to initiate a revision of a regulation which just entered into force two months ago and without a proper assessment. in fact the review clause is foreseen for the new regulation in 2018; there is no need for a revision now. 2. the main concern of some colleagues is to prevent the misuse of european funds, which has been detected as a practice of some extreme right wing parties; we completely agree with that. mainly, we have to make it impossible for cross membership of meps belonging to the same party. we have to avoid being cheated by them. however, some of the proposals may put at risk the existence and funding of small pro-european parties; not to count members of the regional parliaments as elected members of a european party would also be negative as a representation contagion. we have to include them, since some measures would harm the political diversity and representation of citizens. 3. we agree with the reduction of the cofinancing obligation under 15%. please commissioner, try again. 4. the proposal to increase the number of meps in order to register and finance as an eu party could eliminate small groups in the chamber. 5. we need to accomplish all with our democratic duties, all the parties.
madam president, i have to ask you. i join the call for the regulation to be reformed, and i will make this clear by saying that we have already seen that there are foundations and political parties, which are fascist in nature, which are taking advantage of european money. and i'm against that. because one thing is that democracy respects all political wills and pluralism, which is obvious: democracy is the defence of minorities. but, look, look, not all ideologies are respectable and not all political goals are legitimate, ladies and gentlemen. i think we have to make it very clear that there are ideologies of hatred, that there are ideologies of intolerance, that there are ideologies that discriminate against people, that there are ideologies that advocate violence, and that cannot be allowed in a democracy. and my argument for that reform is that we should not allow them to take advantage of european money. clearly, i want to make this very clear. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. there are mechanisms in the law to establish what is respectable and what is not, but i want to make it very clear that i too will die to defend your ideas, to defend that you can say them. what i cannot allow is that the anti-democratic virus, which calls into question the values that the civic soil of the european union has built, is called into question by the very ideologies that combat hatred or discrimination. i cannot accept that a person, in the name of a party, should say that the man who killed 50 or 80 socialists on an island in norway was doing the right thing. i can't allow that. and this is what's at stake right now.
madam president, i was a member of the committee on constitutional affairs when we passed this regulation in 2014 regulating the funding of political parties and european foundations. some of the problems that then arose were buried wrong, and when something is buried wrong, it usually resurrects something afterwards. and we have to face these problems. today we do not have sufficient guarantees that the european political parties that receive funding respect the fundamental values of the union. today we are not sure whether any member of the european parliament belongs to more than one political party in order to obtain funding. we now know that when european issues are confronted in a referendum, funding is needed to address the debate on that referendum. and today we know that we must remain firm in defending these european values, and that only those parties which respect them should have access to funding. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. if it were my personal money, your party could not have any activity, because it would be frankly poor. i know that this is the money of the european citizens and that is why i want that money not to be used to defend or finance political parties whose behaviour is not acceptable to the values of the union. there's a mix-up here, during this whole debate. you never chase ideas. behaviors are being pursued. and these behaviors are not ideological in nature. they are racist because they consider some men to be superior to others, or because they consider one religion to be more true than another, or because they believe that some human beings have more rights.
in writing. some provisions of the regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations, adopted in 2014, need to be improved to ensure greater transparency and accountability of european political parties and a more efficient and correct use of european funds. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion. the socialists have urged the commission to reform the regulation to strengthen the existing controls to ensure that european political groups respect the fundamental values of the union. we want to make sure that european political parties receiving funding fully respect european values, as stipulated in article 2 of the treaty on european union. we do not intend to pursue with these changes critical views of the union but rather behaviour and ideologies of hatred and intolerance which run counter to the values of the eu.
the rapporteur. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague michael gahler for his tireless work on this report, as well as the alternative rapporteurs and the officials of the committees and of parliament. europe - including the uk - is facing an uncertain and confusing international security and defence landscape. fortunately, it seems that we are finally realizing that taking on more responsibility is no longer a task of the future, but a demand of the present. it seems that we have finally accepted that europe must be able to defend and protect itself - because they will not always come from outside to defend us - that we must guarantee the permanence of our values and the security of our citizens. the report we are presenting today expresses the position of this parliament to move forward in building a europe of security and defence and reminds us that we cannot start the house by the roof. the treaty of lisbon is a coherent institutional framework and is sufficient to pave the way. there is no need for new treaties. the problem is, so far, we haven't used it. because - let us not be mistaken - the little progress that has been made in the common european defence to date depends only on the lack of political will on the part of the states and not on the lack of legal instruments. we therefore call on the states to participate in the mechanisms of permanent structured cooperation and in the creation of an integrated european force, as provided for in the protocol. we welcome the commission's announcement of the launch of the first joint planning military headquarters, which is also a demand of this report and which should serve as the embryo of the future headquarters of the european union for its military operations. this report makes it very clear - and we wanted it to be very clear - that the europe of common defence is not incompatible with nato. what we are looking at is how we can better cooperate and complement nato to be more efficient. the question is how we can participate in nato, whether we are united or divided into 27 parts. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. a saving which a report from this parliament estimates at between 26 and 130 billion euros. if we are able to spend together, buy together and invest to research together, we will spend much less. more integration in defence will also bring operational benefits, improve the competitiveness and functioning of the european defence industry, create jobs - this is important - and allow states to launch projects that they could not do on their own, especially those that are not the largest. and it will improve coordination and information sharing, which are some of the most important tasks that we have to do. in this report we also call for the european defence agency to have full political, economic and operational backing. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of this report, so that it can serve as a road map for the european commission and also for the rome declaration next week, which has made security and defence one of its priorities. the european parliament must take the lead in the search for a common defence and security project. we cannot move forward unless all countries are genuinely committed to achieving it; there are no excuses. because there is no greater respect for national sovereignty, for the territorial integrity of each of our countries, than to be able to defend it jointly, each one contributing the best he has. the common european defence is already an urgent matter on which the future of the union also depends. no one's ever coming to defend us again. we'll have to defend ourselves from now on and for that, the first thing is to organize.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr gahler and mr gonzález pons, on their report and on the openness they have shown towards the alternative rapporteurs, among whom i am. security and defence policy has been a weak link in the european union from the outset. there was an initial period where there was no ambition and no means. then there was an intermediate period where there was means, but no ambition. and today we need both, ambition and means. it has been necessary for the devastating effects of wars abroad to reach our borders, our neighbourhood, so that we are aware of the close link between internal security and external security. it was necessary for terrorist attacks to take place in madrid, berlin, paris, london and in so many other cities in the european union, in brussels, so that we would be aware that we need to share intelligence, share operational means and also share judicial cooperation. it has been necessary for russia to rekindle its hegemonic ambition and for the united states to reinforce the part of its isolationist soul that makes us aware that the european union must be a global actor, and can only be one if it has a common security and defence policy. so, more european ambition, without a doubt. more european agency or european defence agency? more commitment to nato? yes, but on a european scale, united, as mr gonzález pons has said. more budget? yes, but not at the expense of other budget lines which are necessary for the daily welfare of the european citizens. more democratic control of parliament? and also, more political voice as the european union in the united nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you. i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this report, which comes at a very particular moment in our calendar. i believe that we cannot define ourselves at this moment in the european union as consumers of a single market, but as citizens of a union. and there's a qualitative social leap from consumer status to citizen status. mr gahler, in your speech you said that citizens are demanding not only greater levels of welfare and progress but also greater levels of security. there are colleagues in this house who think that the european union is in a kind of post-historical paradise, where wars, military men and conflicts are the business of others. we have serious threats to the european union at the moment and today we have armies that have no apparent enemies and we have enemies that have no army. the european union must enter adulthood once and for all. and although the transatlantic code is somehow written into the genes of the european union, we must start to develop our defence capabilities. we must therefore welcome the progress that has been made and that the high representative has been promoting since the european council in december and congratulate the rapporteurs. and i am convinced that there will be no future for the european union if, alongside our economic, commercial, financial or industrial capacities, we do not develop - as the rapporteur, mr gonzález pons, told us - a mobilization of political will to equip ourselves with security and defence capabilities that will enable us to deal with the new configuration of threats.
mr president, i believe in this europe of defence and security. i want a europe of security and defence, because it is a necessity. it's going to be a long march. it's going to be a long march. it's going to be complicated. but we must make very clear progress, because, in addition to the needs that have been identified, and which the rapporteurs have explained brilliantly, i think there is a convergence - i would say it is not normal - between all the member states. even among the 28. i dare say that in the uk too. now, we have two major difficulties. one is political pedagogy. public opinion is not aware of the problems. and politics and leadership demand that we explain to the public why the europe of defence and security is necessary. and secondly, we have a problem with funding. and i think the report does very well in insisting that we need a source of funding of our own from the european union. we cannot ask the austerity countries to include more spending on defence. we can't ask them to do that. we will have to establish a source of resources of our own for this ambitious mission that europe needs.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, mr gahler and mr gonzález pons, on their report. the deterioration of our security environment, the changes in the international scene and the technological revolution make it necessary to advance the european security and defence policy, a dimension which has so far been little developed. as the report rightly points out, the treaties already contain the necessary elements to give us the security and autonomous defence capability we want; let us think, for example, of permanent structured cooperation. the question now is whether there is the political will to take advantage of and develop these articles of the treaty. in this respect i welcome the steps taken by the european council, without going any further than that, last week, and by the foreign affairs council, and also the measures being taken by the commission. we are, as we all know, at a delicate moment for the european union and at the same time i believe that our citizens are asking us for more europe in the field of security and defence. the union can thus emerge strengthened by the development of defence, which offers a positive horizon, beyond brexit and the current difficulties. i would like to conclude by saying that this progress in defence must be accompanied by an increasingly cohesive foreign policy.
the rapporteur. mr president we shall not have a truly united europe until the anxiety of the baltic republics over the proximity of russia is understood in portugal and spain. or until sweden does not understand the situation of europeans living in cyprus, or the fear or anxiety with which greece sees what is happening in turkey. if we are divided, we are weak in all areas. if we stand together, we are stronger and will be respected more. the problem of each european, whatever his or her nationality, must be the problem of all europeans, and that can only be achieved by a common defence which, as mr jauregui said, does not and should not cost more. on the contrary, if we have one budget instead of 27 budgets, we will obviously save money. because we'll shop together, because we'll research together, because we'll create units together. i think it is obvious that we have to create the internal european defence market, which will serve small and mediumsized enterprises and which will serve european research. if we really aspire to do something together ever, the first thing we learn from school, in the playground, in recess, after class, is that you're standing next to someone when you stand up to someone. we're going to stand together, we're going to work together for everyone's safety. and i have nothing more to add, except a big thank you to those who will vote for and those who will vote against. together, we have made europe a little stronger today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr tannock, on the excellent report he has presented to us and on the accurate analysis he has made not only of the progress made by montenegro but also of the general context of the regional situation. the rapporteur tells us that the context is worrying and the european council tells us in its conclusions this weekend that the situation is very fragile. that is why the rapporteur reminds us of what has happened in the electoral process and after the elections which have recently taken place. i think it is wrong, madam president, to consider russia, a country whose borders stretch from alaska to poland, as a regional actor. russia is a global power that, by the way, challenges the west on almost every board and almost always successfully. i therefore believe that the timely visit of the high representative to the region and the handling of this matter in the council of ministers and the european council should be emphasized and given due weight. i think the recipe is very clear: we must continue the reform process, we must give a regional perspective and we must also, madam president, place this problem very clearly - as i said at the beginning - in a regional context which is very disturbing. we already had precedents at the vilnius summit in november 2013. we saw what happened with the crisis in ukraine, the destabilization and annexation of crimea and everything that has happened since. i believe, madam president, that this precedent is an example not to be imitated and we therefore welcome with great pleasure this excellent report from mr tannock on the processes and progress that montenegro has experienced.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are discussing tonight, and voting on tomorrow, is about linking communication technologies with democracy. it may seem like a strange equation, but it's not. the idea behind the report is to establish the improvements that our democracy could achieve through communication technologies, on the understanding that our democracy is indeed suffering, particularly in recent years - i would say more specifically with the economic crisis - a setback; i do not know whether it is a discredit, but a certain distance from citizens towards public institutions. we are concerned about this, and the question is whether the networks and communication technologies could actually help us to improve this relationship, given that the gap, the distance between citizens and politics, has become ever wider, owing to the complexity of the issues raised by governance; to the economic crisis, which has transferred to certain economic institutions, outside of democracy itself, the power to decide on people's lives; and, in general, to the phenomena of political discrediting that parties and some representatives in some countries, for example, have been generating through corruption. this state of affairs worries us and the reflection that brought us to change was the idea that we had to take advantage of communication technologies to give it a meaning, i would not say new, but yes more positive to this relationship between citizenship and democracy. the report's balance sheet, of course, starts from the consideration that this is possible, that technologies are there to help us, not the other way around. and in that sense, we emphasize the importance that, for example, communication technologies could have, and already have in e-governance, in relation to what is the relationship between citizen and public administration, when we establish their fiscal relationship, when we access public services. there is a whole e-governance that has to serve to improve that relationship. there is an opportunity for e-participation to help citizens become more involved in the deliberation of democratic processes, in the consultations that governments can have with citizens about the impacts of certain measures, in evoting the ability to vote online, in political parties and their relationship with their affiliates, with their supporters and with their citizens. so there is a positive approach to the idea that technologies can help us enrich democracy and bring it closer to the citizens. but there is also a prudent look at these effects. it is not an alternative democracy, the report says. we cannot be so naive as to believe that we are going to invent a new democracy on the basis of direct democracy, since technologies, while facilitating that possibility, do not really replace the system of representative democracy. it's prudent, because the report warns of risks. there is a risk in digital access to participation platforms, which have to be equitable for everyone to have access; it's the risk of privacy, of securing the rights of individuals so that their rights are guaranteed. the whole of this situation calls for a report which has been approved by a majority of the whole house.
madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr jauregui. democracy: the unfinished journey is the title of a classic that assesses how democracy has changed through history. over the last quarter century, the debate has revolved around the quality of democracy: how to overcome delegative democracy; how to allow citizens to participate in the decision-making process; how to organize that they can make decisions directly online; how to allow for public agoras, public deliberative spaces. the report makes a number of proposals in this regard, but also draws attention to the need to guarantee privacy, rights and security on the internet. finally, as another classic of democracy said, what has survived is the building of representative democracy. this is to improve it, not to replace it.
the rapporteur. madam president i thank you, commissioner, because i am grateful to the commission for welcoming this idea from parliament and for developing its initiatives. i want to reassure my colleagues, colleagues, who have expressed some concerns. most of them are included in the report, and some suggestions are also included, almost all of them. i think we have struck a very balanced balance between what are, let us say, advantages, opportunities and risks. we appreciate the significance of the estonian experience in relation to e-voting, for example, but we recognise today that the netherlands has not wanted to implement electronic voting for fear of cyberattacks. so there's a fairly reasonable balance between what technology opportunely provides us with for democracy. i would just like to thank all the alternative rapporteurs and all the political groups for their support. we have reached a very majority agreement and i hope that it will be approved by this parliament with very large support tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, with high quality, reliable data, scientists can give accurate advice, operators can better manage their business and we, the politicians, can make informed decisions and produce fair laws. everybody wins. the agreement reached by the co-legislators provides for an improved and simplified framework for gathering comprehensive and reliable information and making it available to all those involved at regional and european level. the new rules aim to ensure that all relevant data are collected in a cost-benefit approach and without duplication of effort. it includes new types of data collection needed for cfp, such as ecosystem data or aquaculture data, and promotes regional and, in turn, personalised solutions through the establishment of regional coordination groups. for cfp reform we need data, more than ever, to measure the progressive achievement of the maximum sustainable yield as well as the effects of the landing obligation. so this agreement is welcome. of course we need to see how it will work in practice, because we are concerned about what regional coordination will look like in practice, because the regulation does not contain a precise description of the role of the regional coordination groups or a very clear regulation. it is also not clear who the end-users will be, as it was decided not to include any definition in this regard. and this is a sensitive issue, because the confidentiality of data is vital for operators. even in the last regional coordination meetings it has become clear that we need to limit this term in some way, because not to do so would be a failure to rationalise the resources available and possibly not meet the objectives we are seeking in this regulation. in any case, welcome, and congratulations to the rapporteur, mr affronte, to my colleague mr kuhn and to all the other rapporteurs for a very good job. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. obviously, you know the answer. you know more about conspiracies than we do.
madam president, i have to ask you. good answer, mr. mato, to certain assessments that do not deserve other things. i would like to stress first of all the good work done by the rapporteur, mr affronte, by mr ricardo serrão and by all the other alternative rapporteurs, because i think that an interesting text has been produced for something which, in our initial assessment, is very technical. it's a technical thing, yes, but it's fundamental to making decisions. in the european union, data are being collected for the 2000 framework for fisheries. there was a reform in 2008 and now the community fisheries policy requires an adaptation, especially to articulate in that compilation all the supporting scientific advice, which is a substantial element in achieving a great objective of the cfp, maximum sustainable yield. so we need proper data collection, good management of this data and its use to achieve those big objectives of the cfp that without this would not be possible to achieve the objectives of maximum sustainable yield or, for example, also all the data collection that the disposal plans are going to give us, which are going to provide very interesting new data. i would like to conclude by saying that there is a great lack of data in the mediterranean which will help us to make future decisions.
we agree, madam president, that accurate and high-quality scientific data are very important for good fisheries management, but we believe that the new framework should never interfere with the normal development of small-scale and coastal fishing activities and should not be more burdensome in economic and administrative terms for fleets. we ask that the collection and management of data take account of the specificities of the fleet and that socioeconomic and environmental data become a key part of the information collected. as regards socioeconomic data, we also ask that the role and situation of women in fisheries be highlighted of seamen, netters, shellfishers and other women working in this field. in addition, thresholds below which the collection of certain data or the carrying out of on-board campaigns will not be necessary should also be defined taking into account the type of fleet and its impacts on resources.
madam president, the collection, management and use of data is essential for the development of efficient fishing and for the proper functioning of the common fisheries policy. in order to assess the impact of fishing activity on ecosystems and fish stocks, we need complete, reliable and harmonised data. data collection should be adapted to new social needs with improved transparency and efficient use of resources. access to data should be facilitated and duplication avoided, by encouraging coordination, pooling efforts between states and contributing to the regionalisation of fisheries management. we must also consider the gender variable throughout the data collection process, making the role of women in the fisheries sector visible. this report makes progress in many of these areas and i therefore regard it as a positive development.
author. madam president we condemn the violence and repression of peaceful demonstrations, all forms of intimidation, harassment, arbitrary arrests and violence against human rights activists, the opposition, ngos and journalists that are taking place in zimbabwe today. we believe that every country should respect and implement international human rights conventions, including the 1998 united nations declaration on human rights defenders. however, we reject any external operations and destabilising strategies, as well as interference in zimbabwe's internal affairs for mere geostrategic purposes. let's face it, though. the problems are the people's problems. poverty, unemployment and chronic malnutrition are the main problems facing the country, and we believe that these problems can only be solved by implementing an ambitious public policy plan in the fields of employment, education, health and agriculture, together with international solidarity and cooperation. furthermore, zimbabwe is one of the most indebted countries in the world and it exemplifies, once again, that we need to approach debt from a human rights-based approach and its long-term sustainability, as well as fair standards that redefine lending mechanisms. without all this, we will continue to be incoherent, using these emergency resolutions as a stick and carrot in the interests of economic interests and ignoring the problems of the people.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would just like to speak on behalf of the alde group to confirm that the opportunity to debate here, on wednesday, in this house, is incomparable: it is essential that we reaffirm our position, which is already following the dismantling that has been taking place all this time. what we are going to discuss here and what we want to resolve in that joint resolution is that the constitutional order in venezuela has obviously been dismembered. the very move by the maduro government to have the supreme court remove all powers from the national assembly, which is the representative of venezuelans, is as unconstitutional as the subsequent order to restart it. you always talk about interference, you talk about sovereignty, you talk about democracy... the truth is that in venezuela democracy is de facto abolished because there is no separation of powers. and our duty as a parliament is to reinforce the european union's position, which mrs mogherini herself made very clear this week: release of political prisoners, restoration of constitutional order and democratic elections in venezuela now. and this week, moreover, is the time when the organization of american states is going to take a stand. we should be with them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new european solidarity corps extends and renews the existing european voluntary service by creating opportunities for young people to volunteer and collaborate on projects that benefit communities and citizens across europe. from the point of view of content, i find no significant changes. so, as mrs kammerevert has said before, the committee on culture has some questions about how this will work and how it will be financed. we are concerned, as some colleagues have pointed out, that they may come from other programmes, for example the already underfunded europe for citizens programme for which we have just asked for a considerable increase in the budget. i would like to express my admiration for the philosophy of the european solidarity corps. perhaps his motives will seem naive, but i consider it noble and necessary to reaffirm the value of solidarity in the difficult times we are living. the european union represents the widening of the moral circle at the supranational level and so this is an extraordinary achievement. the european principle of solidarity is at the root of the values on which our union is founded, and we must not fail to affirm it despite the wounds that brexit may have left us, the selfishness of some nations or our general clumsiness in dealing with the refugee crisis. this body of young volunteers is a step in the right direction if we are to strengthen our most basic commitments and our fundamental principles.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, it seems a joke, and in bad taste, that the same commission which prevents refugees from entering europe and which has condemned an entire generation to a future of precariousness now says that it wants 100 000 young people to be european volunteers by 2020, when, in any case, the objective should be that these young people have jobs and a future. after decimating the cooperative sector, it wants to create a new volunteer corps, in addition to the one already in existence, which will be financed by funds intended to combat youth unemployment. we certainly want a more united and inclusive europe; the problem is that this all seems more like a farce that replaces paid and professional work with voluntary work for free. this should be an opportunity to promote some of the much-needed youth employment, while at the same time responding to other responsibilities, such as ensuring the right to asylum by offering a professional service. let's start building bridges and stop building walls.
madam president, i will give you an example of a question on the contact centre sector in spain, in which we argued that this sector abuses temporary contracts and the transfer of activity between different subcontractors, and that these circumstances are in breach of directives 1999/70/ec and 2001/23/ec. we asked the commission whether it would investigate these cases and take steps to oblige the spanish state to comply with european legislation. the answer is that the commission will be in contact with the spanish authorities. as you can see, a reply that says nothing and that serves no purpose. the problem with not taking parliamentary questions seriously is that they reduce to absurdity one of the tools of this parliament for obtaining information and for responding to the citizens whom we represent. behind each of these questions there is not only a legal and legal foundation work, but there is a work with social organizations, with trade union organizations, with citizen associations that are, in many cases, in a situation of abuse and violation and violation of their rights, and we try to use them to represent them. if they are not taken seriously, then european citizenship is not taken seriously.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, i think it is a good time to look at how our instruments for combating trafficking in human beings are working and, above all, how we are covering all the dimensions of this phenomenon which is absolutely repugnant and which affects our societies. i would like to recall one essential point from article 1 of directive 2011/36/eu, which states that the gender perspective must be taken into account and that the prevention of this crime and the protection of victims must be strengthened, and that gender perspective, commissioner, must be taken into account in many of its facets in the preparation of the new strategy. in the last strategy it was already mentioned in some areas, but i would like to reinforce others, bearing in mind that 'as is well known and as many of the speakers have said' 75% are women and girls, 96% of whom are victims of sexual exploitation. we need a gender dimension in the whole process of identifying the trafficking victim. that is very, very important, and also that in all the instruments of support for victims, there is that gender dimension that can be accompanied. and then there's also another issue that's very important. we obviously have many instruments in different dimensions and we need to ensure a certain coherence of that gender dimension in how the agencies europol, eurojust coordinate or also, for example, in how other strategies - such as the european union security strategy - incorporate that issue. we therefore urge you to analyse and apply the instruments we have more thoroughly and to take account of the gender dimension in all its aspects.
madam president, the trafficking of human beings for criminal purposes affects every country in the world. sexual exploitation, forced labor, domestic servitude, child begging or organ harvesting and more. according to europol, it is a transnational and capital crime; 65% of drug traffickers are involved in human trafficking at the same time and, in many cases, use it as a means of payment. traffickers exploit the vulnerability of victims and make fraudulent use of travel documents, including by abusing legal channels such as tourist, study or work visas. in many cases, victims have to use fraudulent documents to conceal their true identity and age. given that the fight against this scourge is a priority for the union, as stated by socta, and in the new political cycle ahead of the announcement of the revision of the union strategy, i consider it essential that the commission strengthen the mechanisms for detecting, protecting and assisting potential victims; that children be granted special protection; that a comprehensive response be given including cooperation mechanisms and protocols between police, judicial, asylum and labour authorities labour inspectors, while encouraging cooperation between the union, the member states, europol and eurojust and the third countries concerned, accelerating the interoperability of eurocda systems. the eu is also pursuing a policy of increasing the number of eu citizens who are able to access the internet. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. well, you don't expect me to be the oracle of delphi here and have the power to give a solution to such a complex problem. what i think is very important is to strengthen the mechanisms that have been clearly established for prevention; to amend the criminal codes, making the penalties for this more severe; and, above all, to install instruments of repression and investigation in europol and eurojust, with judges and prosecutors.
madam president, the strategy to combat trafficking in human beings is, according to the replies we have received from the commission, the basis on which action is based to develop a community policy on disappearances. in fact, trafficking is identified as responsible for the majority of the 10 000 disappearances of unaccompanied minors and a large proportion of other enforced disappearances recorded annually in the union. in addition to the measures which focus on issues relating to the investigation and clarification of such events, i would like to ask whether the commission is aware of the peculiar legal situation in which victims and relatives of disappeared persons are left in the union, which creates double victimization, and whether there is any provision for reviewing it in the framework of the european policy on assistance to victims of crime. we would like to know in particular when the results of the study announced by commissioner jourová last november on the transposition of the victims directive, which has included a specific section on victims of disappearances, will be available.
madam president, commissioner avramopoulos, slavery is a crime. trafficking in human beings is classified as a serious transnational crime in the treaty on european union and is proscribed by international humanitarian law. and yet slavery is far from being eradicated from europe, as this debate shows. thousands of vulnerable people are sold or traded for exploitation; their organs are harvested and sold; often vulnerable women are trafficked for forced marriage or illegal adoption. and all this is taking place within the framework of a european union strategy to combat trafficking in human beings. it was launched when i was chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs in 2011 and concluded in 2016. this oral question is therefore relevant to urge the commission to adopt immediately a strategy that re-validates the commitment to gender and victim protection that was established in the first strategy of 2011, which was completed in 2016. but above all, let it say how we will strengthen, in the light of experience, the european commitment to combating and preventing trafficking in human beings.
madam president, commissioner, the mafia traffics in people, mainly women and girls, who are deceived, tortured and forced into prostitution in many cases. we are talking about 21st century slavery, and on this issue, on human trafficking, it is essential that we make a greater effort on the part of the institutions. it is essential to have a legislative instrument. it is important that the trafficking in persons directive is implemented and that the european commission carries out a study of its implementation and transposition into the legislation of the various member states. but with a law alone, with legislative instruments alone, we cannot put in place policies that really make progress in this situation. we need political will, and the commissioner has not yet told us when he is going to put the european anti-trafficking strategy on the table. because we are talking about human lives, we are talking about the lives of women, of children, of vulnerable beings. and we are called upon, as those with public responsibilities, to make every effort to combat it.
madam president, commissioner, this phenomenon has been described by all my colleagues, it is a global phenomenon and it must be tackled globally. it is very much connected, by the way, with the phenomenon of refugees and immigration. but i will refer to the local phenomenon, because, indeed, the majority of trafficked persons are women and girls - in the case of the european union - for sexual exploitation. i mean, for prostitution. we traffic in the bodies of women and girls for prostitution. but prostitution exists because prostitution is consumed and because there are businessmen of prostitution. we are faced with this hypocritical, extremely hypocritical discourse by european officials, especially in the member states, who do not prosecute the sexual exploitation of women and girls locally. all the roads in my country, commissioner - and certainly in yours - are full of places, of brothels, in which there are girls and women who have been victims of this traffic. we do not have to go very far; we just have to go through our countries, we just have to follow the route of those who consume prostitution, because they are consuming the direct exploitation of women and girls. so let us not go too far and act directly on our own countries.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for this very constructive and interesting debate. i would also like to thank you for your support in keeping the fight against trafficking in human beings high on the political agenda. the questions you raised today – the economic and financial aspects, the gender dimension and the coherence between the internal and external dimension – will fuel the development of a new, comprehensive eu anti—trafficking policy. it will certainly take due account of the actual and worrisome trends in europe. mrs wikström, trafficking existed prior to the migration crisis. it is not something new. but there is evidence that the current challenges have exacerbated vulnerabilities and i agree about the attention that has to be given to children. they represent 15% of the victims. mr panzeri, in order to ensure policy coherence, it is important to take into account the latest deliverables. the first progress report on the fight against trafficking in human beings and the two reports of the anti-trafficking directive delivered last september will also take into account the targeted consultation with all relevant stakeholders. the internal commission processes are ongoing to ensure the best possible outcome for a future policy. mr urtasun, the latest data for the european union does indeed indicate that sexual exploitation is the most prevalent form of exploitation. it concerns 67% of victims with 95% being women and girls. the external dimension has been an integral part of eu policy to address trafficking in human beings. it constitutes one of its pillars and will continue to do so. let me assure you once again that the commission is monitoring the process in member states towards the full transposition of the directive on anti—trafficking. we will take all necessary steps to ensure full compliance with it. let me conclude by saying that the fight against trafficking in human beings is an imperative for the european union to continue its struggle against unscrupulous criminals. you can be sure that we will do our best in order to take all the necessary action and all the necessary initiatives in the future, engaging all member states in order to fulfil this commitment.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all i would like to welcome this own-initiative report and particularly congratulate ms konečná and her colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi). i would also like to congratulate and thank the other three associated committees as well for their good work, and i am referring to the committee on development (deve), the committee on international trade (inta) and the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri). addressing the environmental and social challenges of deforestation and forest degradation has been, and will continue to be, a priority for the european union, and in particular for the commission. that is the case now more than ever as part of the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development as well as for the paris agreement. deforestation is a complex problem with many drivers such as infrastructure and agricultural expansion and with different dynamics in various countries, so there is no single solution. tackling it requires action at many levels – at the international, national and local levels – and through joint efforts by different actors, acting together – governments, industry and business and civil society. it means working in partnership with countries which are most affected by deforestation and it means adopting a comprehensive and broad approach by identifying all the relevant policies, processes and tools we can work with. the european union has consistently been at the forefront of action in this area through both international and domestic initiatives. at the international level the european union has proactively engaged in the un forum on forests, in the convention on biological diversity, in the implementation of the redd+ framework, and under the un framework convention on climate change. domestically, since 2003, the european union has an ambitious forest law enforcement governance and trade action plan which has delivered key results such as the conclusion of vpas (voluntary partnership agreements) to help partner countries combat illegal logging. but being a frontrunner does not mean that no further engagement is needed. the evaluation of our flegt action plan demonstrated that the work we have carried out so far to combat illegal logging is achieving significant results, but also that we need to work more and we need to work better, both internationally and domestically. addressing illegal logging is not sufficient on its own. the main drivers of deforestation are related to a broad range of societal factors. in that context we also have to look, for example, at our own consumption and agricultural commodities that are often associated with deforestation, such as soybean and palm oil here in the eu. we are of course aware of the degree of public concern at the environmental impacts of palm oil production, such as deforestation and biodiversity loss, greenhouse gas emissions and indigenous rights issues, but we are also aware of the opportunities that it presents, for instance contributing to lifting thousands of people out of poverty in producing countries. the commission believes that we need to address the issue of deforestation by looking at a much broader range of issues and drivers. as a follow-up to the 7th eap, the commission launched this last year in 2016 a study to consider the feasibility of options to step up eu action to combat deforestation and forest degradation. the results of this report should be available by mid-2017. the commission believes also that it is essential to cooperate and to support the efforts of producer countries to minimise deforestation and other negative impacts that palm oil cultivation can have in order to achieve sustainable production of this commodity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. madam president, the monoculture of palm oil is a disaster for ecosystems and a danger to our health. look, it's responsible in indonesia for deforestation the size of germany. and in europe, we consume harmful amounts of palm oil, about sixty litres per person on average per year, which means more bad cholesterol and more heart problems. and to make matters worse, almost half of the palm oil imported into europe is used for agrofuels. with these thousands of acres of crops, we want to feed people or feed cars. the european commission must therefore act to exclude the use of palm oil as an agrofuel from public funds, to implement a binding action plan against deforestation, to label products containing palm oil and to guarantee the rights of local populations in producing countries.
madam president, 80% of the world's deforestation is caused by agriculture. we lose nine million hectares of forest - the same as the area of portugal or three times that of belgium - every year. we europeans are part of this problem, and palm oil is one of its most damaging faces. we cannot look the other way; we cannot shirk our responsibility as one of the largest importers and consumers of palm oil. we cannot shirk our responsibility. according to a study by the commission itself, the eu's forest footprint is still not growing year by year. as long as we continue to operate as if there are no limits to the exploitation of the land, we will continue to be complicit in an unprecedented environmental and human disaster. how can we avoid it? first, binding rules must be established. that is what we want with this report: that the sustainability and traceability of the supply chain be guaranteed in the import of palm oil. it is possible, it is necessary and it is in our hands. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate my colleague, ms kateřina, on this important report.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the alternative rapporteurs - and in particular my colleague paul brannen - on this own-initiative report which takes account in particular of the environmental impacts of the palm oil industry, while encouraging a more sustainable production of this product. in the last two decades, intensive palm oil cultivation has led to massive deforestation of some of the most precious ecosystems - and that is an undeniable fact that we all need to acknowledge here today - which has brought some species to the brink of extinction. the european union is the third largest consumer of palm oil, so we have a great responsibility. some measures have already been taken, but they are not yet sufficient to meet the growing demand for palm oil. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised.
in writing. europe is one of the most important markets for palm oil, with almost 50% of it going to biodiesel production. although we are determined to limit co2 emissions, we have no qualms about importing this type of oil, which is 300% more polluting than fossil diesel fuel combustion, according to the globiom report, which was prepared for the commission. our extreme hypocrisy makes us avoid environmental, social and ecological responsibilities just because it's the cheapest of vegetable oils. the commission should address the end of the use of palm oil as a biofuel feedstock. europe has the strength of the world's third largest consumer to stop the greatest and fastest deforestation in human history, especially in the forests of borneo and sumatra. is there really a sustainable palm tree crop? i firmly believe that no, and it's only the lack of perspective on the problem of global warming that makes us think that this might be the case. while we are considering introducing border adjustment tariffs on the import of construction materials and cement, i denounce that no one is proposing to introduce these tariffs to mitigate the damage that the monoculture of palm oil brings to global warming.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the food security of the citizens of the european union cannot and must not be taken lightly. i would like to congratulate the commission on its diligence in its reaction, on the visit to brasilia and the meeting with the minister of agriculture, and also the brazilian authorities for uncovering this case. it is a case which, as mr assis has pointed out, is limited to a small number of assumptions. in any case, it is one thing to ensure the food security of our citizens and quite another to use it to throw the eu-mercosur association agreement into the wind. i would remind you that the heads of state and government meeting in rome have called for a more active european union on the international scene. and i would remind you that the last european council unanimously decided to support these negotiations. and you decided to support them, madam president, not for any particular reason, but because the european union and its citizens and its companies pay over 4.5 billion euros a year in tariffs, which naturally benefits our citizens and our companies. that is why i naturally insist that the european union should be able to conclude an agreement which respects the security requirements of our citizens, a balanced and ambitious agreement between the european union and mercosur in the shortest possible time.
madam president, commissioner, we are certainly dealing with a major fraud because it affects such substantial elements as food safety and public health. the citizens are therefore very concerned and this should be clarified; let these debates serve to clarify this. apparently, the detection is done by the brazilian authorities. i am concerned about the european part. what's with the inspections? how are they made? it is being said that the inspections that are done are basically documentary, and that the percentage of physical inspection is not done. we are therefore calling into question the controls on imports of products such as this meat from brazil. i am not sure whether this is the fault of the member states' controls or the european union's inspection. it is important to clarify all these aspects, because there is undoubtedly a big problem: that the public has a lack of confidence in these productions. it is good to clarify this and not to confuse it with other debates.
in writing. commissioner, the high standards and european controls have failed completely. the european union has not been able to detect the fraud. i wonder, as does anyone with common sense, how much more fraud is going on with food imports without being discovered by the european commission and the states? but this explains the fraudulent methods that allow food products to be sold at low prices in markets around the world, putting people's health at risk and ruining local producers. and it also makes it clear why the big meat companies don't want the country of origin labelling of meat, because the business is also in using cheap meat in processed meat from recognized brands. in my country, we say that "no one sells pesos for four pesos", that is, no one would sell a euro for eighty cents. the solution to all this is to end the export orientation of agricultural and food policies, to end the mass movement of food throughout the world, to give priority to local production for local and local markets, to regulate production and markets and to set minimum prices that cover costs and remunerate labour.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr kuhn, for the debate we have had on this dossier, which is very technical, but he is very knowledgeable about this subject and has helped all of us who were not as knowledgeable as mr kuhn. so i want to thank you for the work we have been able to do - i as the alternative rapporteur for my group. the fisheries policy shall manage and set the maximum limit of the total capacity of the fishing fleets of the member states in terms of engine power and vessel tonnage, taking into account the available fishery resources. a significant number of european union rules, especially in the framework of the latest reform of the common fisheries policy, also concern and apply to fishing vessels on the basis of their power, tonnage and other technical characteristics such as length, breadth and date of entry into service. all these aspects are very important - they have always been - but with the latest reform of the common fisheries policy they have a special value and required, in addition to the antiquity - to which the commissioner has referred - of the rules we had in 1986 - also an adaptation to reality after the new reform of the common fisheries policy. and that's what we're going to do. the commission has also been given more power in these delegated acts for their subsequent implementation and so here is a great deal of agreement from all the groups which will be ratified by the vote tomorrow. and finally, i do want to say to mr kuhn, when he referred to the amendment which says that we must make a distinction between high-altitude fishing vessels and small-scale fishing, that i agree with that. the procedure is probably not technically appropriate, but in substance i agree and we shall vote in favour, mr kuhn.
on behalf of the alde group. the regulation we are presenting today - and i would also like to thank mr kuhn, the rapporteur, for the effort he has made to bring about such a broad agreement - is vitally important for two reasons. firstly, because it will be essential to be able to determine the conditions for all member states to see their fishing capacity and because it provides guarantees so that the degree of respect for the capacity limits set out in the basic cfp regulation can be measured. it therefore provides legal certainty and clarity for all types of operations in the union relating to the exercise of the fishing profession. to this end, this regulation sets out a definition of all the parameters used to define and describe fishing vessels, such as length, beam, date of entry into service and engine power, which will allow these definitions to be applied to all european union rules on fishing. in making these definitions we have looked at the initiatives of the specialized international organizations and, of course, for specific aspects such as engine power, at the standards of the international organization for standardization (iso) which are usually applied to measures adopted in other sectors of activity. finally, these are definitions which are consistent with the common fisheries policy, and this will enable us to bring coherence to all the policies and all the legislation of this house.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to thank first of all the shadow rapporteurs for their contributions and also the teams that made this report possible. in rural areas there are different types of women with different professions and, like all women, they suffer the consequences of a patriarchal system which oppresses, discriminates and makes them unviable. despite progress in equality legislation, we see that there is still a long way to go. the fact is that existing laws are not fully applied or are implemented, often on a sexist basis. this was interfering with the advancement of our rights. i hope that this report on rural women will help to strengthen the struggle and to make progress in terms of full recognition of the rights of rural women. the challenges are important: in the professional field, in conciliation, in public services and in the fight against gender-based violence. the gender pay gap persists and unemployment affects women more. i shall refer in particular to the situation of women farmers. the policies of deregulation of production and markets, promoted by the cap, have led to precariousness and the loss of many jobs on farms and in the countryside. the failure to recognise shared ownership in family farms means that only 30% of female farmers in the european union are farm holders. all other women on this type of farm are deprived of the rights that come with owning it. we are talking, for example, about economic income and rights arising from the cap. these women also face difficulties in obtaining support under positive action measures to support women workers, as has already happened in many member states. the way in which the cap distributes aid, favouring large farms, also harms women who are usually the owners of smaller farms. for example, in 2013, on average, a farm managed by a woman is 8 hectares, compared to 20 hectares on farms managed by men, or 8 livestock units compared to 26 for men. but there is also the fact that many farmers are not considered as such because they do not contribute to agricultural social security. others, on the other hand, have few years of contribution when they reach retirement age, and this deepens the pension gap and brings higher levels of poverty to women. it is therefore essential to tackle this situation of discrimination and insecurity for women at its root if we are to maintain farms which are the fundamental economic basis for the development of a living rural environment. the report proposes that the member states and the commission should focus on shared ownership in family farms, in particular by drawing up laws to establish and implement it effectively where it already exists. the participation of women in all areas of decision-making, such as institutions, trade unions, cooperatives and also in negotiation processes must be guaranteed. public and quality services should target the rural environment, education, health, social services, transport or postal services. in conclusion, i would like to say that it is essential to equip rural areas with the tools to implement measures to prevent and eradicate gender-based violence and to ensure that support and counselling services are also provided for women affected by this violence.
madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank mrs petir and mrs lidia senra for this report, which aims to give women working in rural areas visibility, but also policies so that their contribution to the development, sustainability and innovation of this sector is recognised and supported. first, for justice, but also for efficiency. we have therefore made a commitment - and this is reflected in the report - that this will be the first step towards the drafting of a european statute for women farmers, such as the one already in force in some historical european countries such as the basque country, and from whose content most of the amendments we have tabled originate. we need more women as owners or co-owners of farms, in positions of responsibility in cooperatives and businesses, and a cap that takes women's contribution seriously and allows it to emerge, that values it in terms of income and talent, and that supports it accordingly.
madam president, this report on women and their role in rural areas is very important because we are calling on the european commission and the member states to take action to promote rural development, where women play an essential role, not only economically but also socially. many of our demands in the form of amendments, and also thanks to the work of my colleague lidia and mrs petir, are reflected in this report. for example, a high level of public services can be ensured in rural areas, because otherwise it will be impossible to establish population. we call for the right of women to farm ownership to be guaranteed, we also encourage gender-sensitive budgets and, finally, we recall the need to strengthen the means of combating gender-based violence in rural areas. in short, if we want gender equality and cohesion to be more than just principles written into the treaties, concrete public policies must be developed to ensure that the rural environment survives.
madam president, women produce more than half the world's food, but only a minority own their land: invisible work, difficult access to finance, the low representation of women in decision-making positions are a constant in the rural world. we greens believe that the current model of agriculture, which is industrial, globalised and intensive, is not only unsustainable for the planet but also contributes to perpetuating this inequality between men and women. the agricultural model of the future, and also for the cap, for example, is ecological and egalitarian. there, women are agents of change and play a key role in creating new rural jobs, such as in craft work or quality tourism. to do this, the european union has to lead this ecological and gender transition. we need the european and national institutions to support us, to support them. it's an opportunity for society as a whole.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, marijana petir and lidia senra, on their good work together on a text which contains many of the requests which parliament has already expressed in its report on the future of the cap. a gender perspective is needed to combat the huge inequalities in access to land and agricultural property between men and women, as well as in the recognition of their status and rights as rural workers. the commission should take note of the serious deterioration in the situation of women in rural areas and integrate this gender perspective into the development of the cap. the report also points out that this will require improved implementation of rural policies, facilitating women's participation in decision-making.
madam president, i bring back to this house the struggle of the workers at the rota base. this is an international issue, because the multinational louis berger has laid off 12 workers, is threatening further redundancies and is seeking to reduce wages by up to 35%. and all this in the course of negotiating the collective agreement, also violating the right to strike. the bilateral agreement signed with the spanish government, which requires the hiring of 370 spanish workers at the base, is also not complied with. the spanish government allows the european rules on company transfers, information and consultation and collective redundancies to be flouted, tolerating the blackmail of this multinational. if the spanish government does not take action against the united states, it is the commission's task to remind it and to make it comply with its international obligations, because no worker who fights for his rights deserves the lack of institutional support to which the workers of rota are being subjected.
madam president, i wish to make two complaints. one is the bold intervention of spain in the future of gibraltar, which has almost unanimously decided to remain in the european union. to meddle now in gibraltar, for its own benefit, is to make any negotiations with britain difficult rather than help to find solutions. secondly, the use made by spain of european money for the mediterranean corridor is scandalous. to say that the mediterranean corridor runs from algeciras to madrid is like saying that the lines berlin-munich or paris-lyon have to do with the english channel. the spanish government twists everything, including geography, to benefit its expensive, useless and outdated centralist project. but is it possible that parliament and the commission do not know geography and that they give money for a transfer that causes laughter and grief in primary school children? i'm shocked. everywhere you look, madrid is not in the mediterranean and it seems that it will not be in the next millennium.
mr president, i have to say... i'm sensing a bittersweet taste at the end of this commission of inquiry. there is no doubt that the new regulation introduced will allow for more effective testing and monitoring of emissions, but we must admit a certain failure to require liability and compensation. the fact that mr tajani is now president of this parliament, that the infringement proceedings have not yet resulted in sanctions against the member states, that consumers still have to go to court for redress, that our cities still have polluted air and that the car companies, which have become rich at the expense of the health of europeans, now want to burden the workers with the transition from diesel to electric vehicles, is proof of this. dieselgate has demonstrated the corruption of a regulatory system in the hands of the big producers. even if we breathe a little cleaner air in the future, i have the feeling that little or nothing has changed in the relationship between the european union and big business.
mr president, commissioner, over the past year the committee of inquiry has received technicians and experts from all over the european union to find out what has happened to the polluting emissions from vehicles. at this point, we all have a fairly approximate idea of what happened: the text gives an adequate answer to our questions. the priority must be to preserve the environment and the health of the citizens, of course! the european union's legislation must evolve to promote less polluting fuels. it is also desirable to avoid the installation of deactivation devices similar to those detected in the case of the fraud in question and to include polluting emissions in the scope of the environmental liability directive. our legislation must offer greater protection and redress to the consumer in cases like this, because consumer protection is essential in this single market we have created. finally, i am not in favour of creating a new ad hoc agency. we have many agencies in the european union, and i don't think that's the solution to prevent cases like this. we just have to lay a solid foundation for it and stick to it. the text we are voting on today clearly points the way forward and we must also consider whether we are not being too demanding with some industrial sectors which have to compete with the rest of the world.
mr president, it is already clear that the european parliament has done its job. the european commission and the member states have not done so. by action or omission, they have failed. the commission has already taken action, because the prevention and control mechanisms failed, and it has failed to act, because when the first alarms were sounded, the european commission and the member states looked the other way. and yes, we must take the decisions for the future that this european parliament is proposing. of course we need to create an agency, an agency that has the capacity to prevent, that has the capacity with broad powers to impose fines, that has the capacity to recall vehicles. there is no administrative burden left over, as they say, what is left over is bad practice and, for that, the agency has a very specific mechanism to deal with it. of course, the people who have been deceived - the users and consumers - must be compensated. of course, we must be consistent and meet the objectives we have set. and as rapporteur for the future renewable energy directive, i too will be advocating greater decarbonisation in the transport sector.
mr president, when the volkswagen scandal broke, we talked about three types of messages: we talked about responsibility, we talked about restoration or rectification and we also talked about trust. the clearing of liability is still going on in the european courts, but what will really restore consumer confidence in the car industry is the amendment we are introducing today in european legislation. it is true that the extreme left will not support it because it is insufficient and is thus once again joined by the extreme right, which will not support it either because it thinks it will place an excessive burden on industry. but they don't realize that what really hurts the company is the shadow of doubt about its social and environmental responsibility. this regulation therefore improves the capacity for control, avoids conflicts of interest between manufacturers and type-approval authorities and increases the penalties for those who are found to be in breach. we socialists are concerned about the environment. that's why we want the laws to be clear and enforced. that is why we are calling for the introduction of a european agency with responsibility in this area. we are concerned about citizens, their health and their confidence, and that is why we are putting in place greater fraud prevention and compensation mechanisms. and we are concerned about the workers, who are exemplary in the collective bargaining model, and therefore we want to send them a message of thanks and reassurance, that we are with them and that their concerns and their way of acting have also been in the work of the s&d group.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the forests of sumatra and borneo in indonesia are crying out for the destruction they are being subjected to. two million hectares of forest are lost every year, the irreplaceable habitat for many animal species such as the great apes of borneo. this is unsustainable production for an uncontrolled market, where transnational corporations act without control, burning the forest and then installing illegal palm oil plantations. and the european union is no stranger to this reality: we are the second largest consumer of palm oil in the world. that is why we have supported this report which urges the european commission to act, to abandon the use of vegetable oils by 2020 and to increase control of imported palm oil, to finally increase the traceability of these products. it's time for these institutions to protect the planet and its people and to rein in corporate power and enforce human rights in every corner of the planet.
madam president, until two years ago, there was no awareness in spain of the ubiquity of palm oil in our food, but the fact is that the obligation to indicate on the labels the type of vegetable oil used as an ingredient has made it possible to make a small revolution. this week, the major food distribution chains in my country - alcampo, eroski, mercadona, lidl - announced that they were withdrawing their linear products made with palm oil. social pressure is growing because people want to protect the environment and they also want to know what they are eating. both the environment and the right to food go hand in hand. the public knows this and is telling us and demanding that we take note. but taking notes is not patching. the objective of this report is to phase out palm oil from biofuels by 2020. that's why we've supported it, because it's a start to start tackling the paradoxes of fighting climate change. but we understand that we need to go much further: we need to rethink the global food distribution system. otherwise, we will continue to patch up one of the greatest challenges facing humanity.
madam president, when we talk about the wage gap or the glass ceiling, we think of offices, large companies and cities, but inequality is even deeper in rural areas. there, women suffer a multiplied discrimination: in their decision-making capacity, in their pay and in the recognition of their contribution and ownership. i met maribel sanchez vadillo the day she took her first flight. he was coming to brussels to collect an award for his goat farm in candeleda (spain). maribel is an example of what women can achieve in a traditionally male world: success, recognition and business ownership. i call on the spanish and european authorities to guarantee women full access to ownership and management of farms and holdings. women transform entire communities when they participate fully in the economy, especially in the agricultural sector, and multiply exponentially the benefits for the whole society.
madam president, i too wanted to make an explanation of vote on this report which i consider to be a step forward. it is only an own-initiative report, but it is good that we give visibility to rural women. women in rural areas have particular difficulties. there are quite a few of them here, but i wanted to highlight especially that role of invisibility that they have, especially in working capacity. we are seeing how in these rural areas, 50 percent of the population are women. however, 40% of women are unemployed. what's the matter? what's the matter? many of them do not even register or register themselves in the unemployment systems. there is therefore a double invisibility: their lower contribution to the labour system - which then leads to their having fewer rights at the time of a pension - and their lack of recognition in the role of agricultural activity.
madam president, the common agricultural policy has historically turned its back on the crucial role of women. for example, in spain it is difficult to find a single line in rural development plans that specifically addresses the situation of invisibility and gender inequality in rural areas, let alone in the agricultural sector. it is time for the cap to put on the purple glasses, the purple glasses, because they are the ones who have supported and are supporting the rural world, the ones who have worked the hardest, the ones who have fed us, who have taken care of everything and everyone. they, who never had time for themselves, are the great forgotten ones. one of these women recently said in a newspaper in my country that "the countryside is dying, every year a small part of the space i live in dies; and it dies because we are killing it all together". the future of rural areas depends on policies that put women at the centre. let us not forget that the exodus from the countryside is primarily a female exodus. so to ensure that they stay is to guarantee a tomorrow. let us also put on the purple glasses to look at the countryside and, above all, let us put on the purple glasses to look at the primary sector.
madam president, the dieselgate is the symbol of what we might call 'the european fabric'. for two years, the european commission knew that vehicle emissions tests were being manipulated and did nothing, as if the puff was going to solve itself. in fact, the former commissioner for industrial policy, antonio tajani, was aware of this, but instead of punishing him, the european people's party has rewarded him with the post of president of this house. dieselgate is not only a consumer hoax but, because of pollution, it is also a very serious public health problem and a threat to climate change. despite this, both the european commission and the member states decided not to act, to stick their heads in a hole. why would you do that? because the revolving doors keep turning around the commissioners, the lobbyists and the car companies. this web of interests endangers health and endangers democracy itself.
mr president, as has been said before, a few months ago we were having a debate here, in which it seemed that there were some good macroeconomic data, that greece could gradually close the programme and that we had a good outlook. what's the matter? for someone seems to be more interested in making the negotiations difficult and creating problems than in getting them to the end, not least because things are being asked of greece that are not even in the memorandum. because i want to remind you that in the memorandum, which was totally ignominious, there was the question of debt and debt restructuring. where is that on the table? we don't know that. and instead, greece has been asked to introduce labour reforms which are even against european law itself, because what is being demanded of it in the field of collective bargaining is against the very foundations of european law. so it seems that we are more in the interests of some people, of some international institution that wants to destabilize a government, than in the interests of people who really want to help the country move forward. frankly - and i want to end with this - the fact that the president of the eurogroup, after what he said the other day, has not deigned to come is further proof that what he has to do is to resign immediately.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and the minister for their speeches in a debate which should have taken place with the president of the eurogroup. the president of the eurogroup replied a few minutes ago to the letter which many members sent to him last week. a reply that comes late and wrong, by mail, after the unanimous agreement of this house to condemn his attitude, but it is too late. mr dijsselbloem, by his absence today, has lost respect for parliament, as he has done with his dismissive statements to women and the countries of the south. but he has missed something else: he has missed another opportunity to apologize, probably the last one. in his letter he tells us he'll be more careful in the future. no, mr dijsselbloem, there is no future for you, because the eurogroup cannot continue to rely for one more minute on a president who loses his due neutrality, a president who discriminates against some countries in comparison with others, and a president who looks down on women or turns his back on parliament. the only future you have left is knowing how you want to be remembered. whether as a macho, sectarian and arrogant president, or as a president who was wrong, corrected, asked for forgiveness and had the dignity to resign. it's your decision. i hope you don't make that mistake again.
mr president, one of the great problems we are having with regard to bailouts of countries is precisely that of democratic legitimacy. and the fact that the president of the eurogroup has failed to heed the call of this parliament today only increases the feeling of democratic illegitimacy in this whole process - one more reason why he has to resign. but it is true that we are here today to discuss greece, and greece needs to bring the spirit of the european semester into its rescue programme, i.e. fiscal responsibility - not this excessive austerity that we are imposing with primary surpluses of 3.5%, with a debt burden of 181% - greater flexibility so that they can get out of the economic crisis in which they are, and socially fair structural reforms that also facilitate investment. and to that extent, we call for them to be able to get back to collective bargaining, so that they can increase their minimum wages. in greece, the total wages have been devalued by 40%. because we also need to send them a strong message of social responsibility, of maintaining the social model; that these economic improvements are also affecting all the workers and citizens of greece. we therefore call for a message of responsibility, yes, but also of socially just responsibility for all citizens.
in writing. the greek public debt stock remains one of the key challenges for the euro area. its long-term sustainability is called into question by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards the solution of a restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and amortization periods. the eurogroup should take this analysis into account in the framework of the negotiations for the renewal of the financial assistance programme. in particular, cross-compliance needs to shift the emphasis from labour market reform to regressive reform (collective bargaining needs to be reinstated) and fiscal adjustment. as for the setting of budgetary balance targets, they must be moderate and realistic, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and the rate of economic growth will be damaged. in any case, other countries such as spain, portugal and italy are at or above the threshold of 100% sovereign debt to gdp. the use of the european stability mechanism as a debt redemption fund could help to solve this problem for the euro area as a whole.
in writing. the greek public debt stock remains one of the key challenges for the euro area. its long-term sustainability is called into question by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards the solution of a restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and amortization periods. the eurogroup should take this analysis into account in the framework of the negotiations for the renewal of the financial assistance programme. in particular, cross-compliance needs to shift the emphasis from labour market reform to regressive reform (collective bargaining needs to be reinstated) and fiscal adjustment. as for the setting of budgetary balance targets, they must be moderate and realistic, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and the rate of economic growth will be damaged. in any case, other countries such as spain, portugal and italy are at or above the threshold of 100% sovereign debt to gdp. the use of the european stability mechanism as a debt redemption fund could help to solve this problem for the euro area as a whole.
in writing. the greek public debt stock remains one of the key challenges for the euro area. its long-term sustainability is questioned by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and repayment periods. the eurogroup should take this analysis into account in the framework of the negotiations for the renewal of the financial assistance programme. in particular, cross-compliance needs to shift the emphasis from labour market reform to regressive reform (collective bargaining needs to be reinstated) and fiscal adjustment. as regards the setting of budgetary balance targets, they must be moderate and realistic, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and the rate of economic growth will be damaged. in any case, other countries such as spain, portugal and italy are at or above the threshold of 100% sovereign debt to gdp. the use of the european stability mechanism as a debt redemption fund could help to solve this problem for the euro area as a whole.
in writing. the greek public debt stock remains one of the key challenges for the euro area. its long-term sustainability is called into question by the international monetary fund, which is pointing towards the solution of a restructuring by reducing interest rates, increasing grace periods and amortization periods. the eurogroup should take this analysis into account in the framework of the negotiations for the renewal of the financial assistance programme. in particular, cross-compliance needs to shift the emphasis from labour market reform to regressive reform (collective bargaining needs to be reinstated) and fiscal adjustment. as for the setting of budgetary balance targets, they must be moderate and realistic, otherwise social conditions and political instability will worsen and the rate of economic growth will be damaged. in any case, other countries such as spain, portugal and italy are at or above the threshold of 100% sovereign debt to gdp. the use of the european stability mechanism as a debt redemption fund could help to solve this problem for the euro area as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs willmott and mr liese on the great work they have done and on the success of the negotiations on these two reports. it wasn't easy. it is almost five years since the original proposal was put forward by the european commission, and it has rained a lot since then. five years of work and almost two years of hard negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament have led us to be able to adopt new rules on medical devices which reflect the technological and scientific advances that have taken place in the sector over the last twenty years. an agreement which we will vote for tomorrow because it reflects what we want: more security for our citizens; more security in both post-approval checks on products and in the passports that all implants must carry to be properly monitored and traced; more security, more transparency and more rapid response, obliging member states to take the necessary measures to empower healthcare professionals, users and patients to report suspected serious incidents at national level using harmonised forms. we want safer products, which will enable us to build a system of control and protection that will strengthen pre- and post-marketing controls, be more transparent and prevent the recurrence of cases as serious as those of pip breast implants which affected thousands of women in europe.
mr president, i can only thank and acknowledge the great work of mrs willmott and mr peter liese in what i believe not only solves the problem of medical and cosmetic products, but also marks - or intuitively marks - the future of patient safety in general. they have introduced such important concepts as manufacturer's responsibility, with sufficient financial coverage; they tend to eliminate and limit the use of toxic and carcinogenic substances in these types of products, a clear improvement in traceability, post-market monitoring and, of course, patient information. all in all, excellent work for these products, but as i say, i'm very confident that it will be the future of improving patient safety as well.
the rapporteur. the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the this is a very important debate because we are talking about our external response to the phenomenon of migration and refugees, but it is actually a debate that speaks a lot about us, about what we want the european union to be, about what we think the european union should be. i really think it's not the time for rhetoric anymore. a lot has happened. president steinmeier was talking about courage today. we should probably move away from rhetoric and instead deal with courage. the european union is undoubtedly at a critical juncture and is in danger of becoming even more introverted. with the phenomenon of migration and refugees, it has been completely overwhelmed. overwhelmed by something we call crisis. but it's not a crisis, because it's not going to end anytime soon. we must stop calling the movement of people fleeing the most absolute horror a refugee crisis, and they have only one thing, and that is their right to be protected. we must stop calling the arrival of thousands of people a migration crisis, when they do not choose to leave their homes, their countries and their families on a whim, but flee because they have no other choice. we can talk about another crisis. the crisis of european solidarity that is a crisis. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council get involved in this. we can also speak of an institutional crisis, because the european council has been unable to fulfil its own commitments, which were already minimal commitments in the area of refugee reception. and we can also talk about moral crises, because we are more concerned with blocking the access of these people to our borders, even if it is through spurious agreements, such as the agreement adopted with turkey, or more interested in encouraging returns than in alleviating the dramatic situation of all these people inside and outside our borders. what europe is receiving is a tiny fraction of the harsh reality of the displacement of people around the world, from countries much poorer than ours, which are hosting five times and ten times as many refugees as we call them. our reaction has been, to say the least, irresponsible. especially that of national governments. he's been short-sighted, myopic, they don't want to see that this phenomenon is here to stay. the report we are presenting is an own-initiative report and therefore does not oblige the council and the commission to act. but it is a voice, the voice of the european parliament, the voice of the representatives of the citizens in the european union. and this voice is saying that the phenomena of migration cannot be understood as a threat, that we need a paradigm shift, a narrative shift, to make it something beneficial, as it has been throughout history. this is a battle that we democrats cannot lose and that we must fight without any qualms against a rising far right and a populism of both left and right that is clearly on the rise. to do this, the report says, we must move beyond a security-only approach to dealing with human rights, to dealing with integration, to dealing with these people having legal pathways to our countries. and not to always transfer responsibility to third parties. we are asking many countries which are in much greater difficulties than we are to take on something which we are not prepared to take on, and this parliament cannot be ignored in this whole new strategy of agreements with third countries. we are facing a very serious problem of credibility with our citizens and we have to respond to them to the extent that our values require us to respond. i think it is a great step forward that the european union's external action is also dealing with the phenomenon of migration and refugees. that's good news we have to follow very closely.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs valenciano for her cooperative and rigorous work and her spirit of consensus. i want to start by addressing the issue of the report correctly: we are talking about the challenges posed by the flows of migrants and refugees and the external role of the union. it is not, therefore, a report which focuses primarily on the internal dimension. an external dimension, mr president, is of paramount importance in dealing with irregular migration and addressing its root causes, as was stressed at the valletta summit and in the recent european councils. migration is a powerful tool for development and can therefore contribute to socioeconomic progress, as it has historically done. moreover, it should be addressed as a unique opportunity to transform migration into a key driver of sustainable and inclusive development. i therefore consider it essential that a positive narrative is used that promotes an authentic and objective understanding of the issue and the associated common benefits. i therefore wholeheartedly support the 'together' campaign launched by the united nations to reduce negative perceptions and attitudes towards refugees and migrants. i call on the institutions of the union to cooperate fully with the united nations in support of this campaign. i would like to stress that the union must respect its values and principles in all its common policies and promote them in its external relations, as stated in article 21 of the treaty on european union, which i am going to quote specifically, since i consider it of the utmost importance for our purpose: 'the union's action on the international scene will be based on the principles which inspired its creation, development and enlargement and which it seeks to promote in the rest of the world: democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law.' the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have specifically mentioned the solidarity of the union and of all its policies to emphasize that the union's aid and cooperation must be unconditional and designed to achieve development and growth in third countries, thereby also fostering growth within the european union itself, and all the more so as the union is the world's largest donor. it is true that the humanitarian aid system is absolutely overwhelmed and therefore we need a comprehensive and more durable approach to migration that includes promoting closer links between the humanitarian and development arenas to address this challenge, while remembering that the primary objective of humanitarian aid is poverty eradication. i would also like to stress the empowerment of women and their greater participation in decision-making processes at all stages of migration. in addition, i call for greater protection for the most vulnerable, such as the aforementioned women, children, people with disabilities, older people and lgbti people, and in particular that all of them be granted one-off assistance and increased humanitarian protection and facilitated access to residency status and basic services, including health care and education. in line with the doctrine of the united nations at the september high-level summit, i consider it essential to achieve safe, orderly and regular migration. to do this, we must intensify our cooperation with the united nations, giving a key role to unhcr, the new resettlement programme of the european union. we also need to fight smugglers who profit from the vulnerability of migrants, and it is important to strengthen the protection of the union's external borders. i would like to condemn and denounce the terrible death toll at sea, and i would like to express my concern about the missing children and to call on the union and the states to assume their responsibility to achieve a global and multilateral response based on international cooperation and synergies to respond to these present and future challenges.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the two co-rapporteurs, mrs elena valenciano and mr agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, for this comprehensive report which puts the european union and its partners in the spotlight. faced with this unprecedented scale and complexity of migration, europe must respond with clarity, efficiency and coherence. this report focuses on several aspects of the union's external action which i consider to be essential. first, the european union and the member states must confirm their political commitment to tackling the root causes of migration and forced displacement. we need to strengthen our commitments with our partners, for example on the emergency trust fund, and focus our action on, among other things, economic resilience, poverty reduction and security in third countries. secondly, as regards the union's international partnerships, we must step up our support for the first-receiving countries which play a key role in responding to migratory pressures, such as the western balkans or lebanon and jordan. socio-economic and judicial cooperation with countries of origin and transit should also be encouraged, in the framework of a balanced dialogue. in this context, monitoring the operational implementation of the rabat and khartoum processes is of paramount importance. on the other hand, we must continue our work in collaboration with the multilateral bodies and ngos that contribute their expertise and support european action at global level. it is essential to continue to involve all stakeholders in the management of this phenomenon. finally, i welcome the fact that this report gives a great deal of importance to the fight against the human tragedies faced by refugees and migrants. human trafficking, violence and abuse are too many to mention when we talk about all these victims who are forced to move. we must react to it. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". first, in the interpretation, there was only one question: is the european union credible when dealing with migrants? i would like to say one thing: credibility implies making commitments in brussels and then implementing them at national level, taking joint and common action by all the member states, and speaking with one voice on the international stage. if we have more concrete and adequate instruments to meet this challenge, then we will gain credibility. yes, the european union has everything to gain if this credibility is accompanied by the elements i have just mentioned.
i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mrs valenciano and mr díaz de mera, not only for the report but also for the speech they made this afternoon. to assess the report, i think it is good to put some facts in context. last week we learned that there have been about five million syrian refugees, a very significant part of the population of this country. but there are 60 million refugees in the world as a result of conflict. if the syrian war is resolved - and hopefully soon - we will still have tens of millions of refugees in the world. the european union was to be taken over by 28 countries and half a billion people. lebanon, which is the size of the alsace region where we are meeting today, has one and a half million refugees. so the crisis is not the number of refugees that have arrived. the crisis is the management of the hatred, of the indifference with which we have treated those migrants or refugees who flee from war or hunger. the report has medium and short-term answers. and the first is to change the narrative: migration or refugee is not a risk. it's a risk to mismanage. and to manage it badly is to respond exclusively with walls, with fences, with repression, with the neglect of human rights. to manage it well is to contribute to the development of those countries that force them to emigrate for lack of opportunities and not as an option to improve their lives. to manage it well is to offer legal channels and humanitarian visas. and to manage it well is to respect their human rights in all their aspects when they arrive on union soil.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, this report is intended to paint a picture of a european union that is unsound and cruel. it is a joint report signed by mrs valenciano and mr díaz de mera s&d group and ppe group. in this report, which is not legislative and does not set out european policy, they call for legal and safe routes and humanitarian visas; but then, in the same report, they support deportations, the militarization of the mediterranean, nato intervention and the externalization of borders. and what is worse, in the reports which are legislative, in the european commission and in the council, which is where the real decisions are made, your parties do not support opening up legal channels and do not support humanitarian visas, quite the opposite. on the one-year anniversary of the agreement of shame with turkey, they are celebrating by negotiating similar agreements with egypt, tunisia, libya and nigeria, and blackmailing them with development aid. the spanish government is directly negotiating an agreement with morocco to deport minors. mrs valenciano, mr díaz de mera, in the report they appeal to human rights, but in their government action in ceuta and melilla, some put concertinas and others shoot at el tarajal. paper bears all, but the consequences of your policies are seen on the borders, the consequences of the policies of the grand coalition that you two here today represent perfectly. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. fortunately, not all the members of the gue/ngl group in the committee on foreign affairs responded as mrs albiol did. i will ask you a question, to see if you have an answer to this: how is it possible that your vote coincides with the vote expressed by the extreme right of this house? i mean, your vote matches that of the national front, golden dawn and our friend east poland. can you explain that?
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs valenciano, we are going to vote against this report because we want to open up borders. we want solidarity. we want to take in refugees. the far right votes against it for the very opposite reason. the worrying thing is that you, who are from the s&d group, and the epp group vote the same way because you support the same policies. we stand for the exact opposite of the extreme right. there is no group in this house that fights the far right and fascism more than the gue/ngl group. none! (commentary without a microphone by diaz from mera garcía consuegra)
i'm not asking for a "blue card". i'm asking for an answer for allusions. i am asking, in accordance with the rules of procedure, for an answer by way of allusion. i'm not asking for a "blue card".
madam president, this is a matter of order. it's a matter of order and you must listen to what i have to say. i'm addressing the house floor. look, ma'am, the interpretation of the rules... (the president cut the speaker off)
don't feel anything, just hear me out. this is a chamber for dialogue and debate. it's not a house for the imposition of the presidency. i'm not going to let you do this. do you want to hear me or not?
madam president, the eu-turkey agreement has been a disaster for the thousands of people who have been stranded in a dangerous, desperate and seemingly endless limbo on the greek islands. i'm not saying that, amnesty international is. we are not concerned about the eu-turkey agreement, as the report says. we reject it, without ambiguity and without fissures. let us not be hypocrites: one is what one votes and what one does and not just what one says. it now also seems that the migration cooperation agreement with libya, where there are systematic human rights violations, police brutality and degrading conditions for migrants, must be justified. a model of the externalization of frontiers which is being imposed in europe, but which was inaugurated by the governments of the socialist party and the people's party precisely with morocco selling out to our sahrawi brothers. it also justifies and is committed to nato's intervention in the field of migration, justifying europe as a fortress, which, incidentally, is the political fuel for the rise of the far right in europe. while thousands of people are still dying in the mediterranean, the humanitarian aid of many ngos involved in search and rescue in the mediterranean is now being criminalised, reaching where the european institutions cannot and do not want to reach. i take this opportunity to call for the amendment of directive 2002/90/ec, which criminalizes humanitarian aid. we will not be and do not want to be complicit by action or omission in this fortress europe.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to acknowledge the work done by the rapporteurs and say that this is a global problem which also requires a global approach. i think that, with the exception of a few member states, it is not true to say that the european union is a disunited union. in 2015, 2016 and 2017, the european union has mobilized 17 billion euros, created the european fund for sustainable development or the trust fund for africa. the european commission's green paper on demographic change says that europe is the only continent that will lose population in net terms by 2035, by about 30 million people. this figure must be put in line with the 244 million immigrants and 65 million refugees. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
madam president, the european union must gain credibility in the debate on refugees. the credibility of the european union is now being undermined by an excessive focus on security, by an agreement between the member states and turkey that is at the very limits of international law, by the refusal of some states to accept resettlement quotas and by the shame that the mediterranean is the world's largest sea-going trench. people will continue to flee from crimes against humanity, from crushing inequalities, from the effects of climate change. at best, we can only mitigate mass displacement by addressing the root causes of injustice and conflict. this is the direction that the union's external action must take, without forgetting that, out of solidarity but also out of self-interest, we must keep the doors and minds of europe open. i come from a european country, catalonia, where last february 160 000 people took to the streets to demand the right to take in refugees under the slogan 'casa nostra és casa vostra'. this is the europe of solidarity and responsibility which must defeat the europe of walls.
the question of the 'blue card'. mrs winberg, are you saying that this report presents false data? are you saying that this parliament and this joint work of two rapporteurs, such as mr diaz de mera and mrs valenciano, are arguing false facts? does ukip say that the data is as false as the data they used in their brexit campaign to say what the uk was or was not contributing, or what healthcare cost and what could be saved?
mr president, mrs valenciano, mr díaz de mera, i admire your work and i support your joint, constructive approach, because to destroy is already mrs albiol or mr urbán - who is gone - to undermine systematically and not to provide any viable solution. but the rest of us are here to work and to listen to each other and to come up with solutions. what i want to talk about today is failure. the failure of the european council, the failure of the member states to fulfil their commitments to take in refugees. pacta sunt servanda. what is the meaning of pacta sunt servanda? of the 15 000 refugees that our government, the government of spain, the government of the popular party, has committed itself to accepting, we are only going to reach, hopefully, 10 per cent. a dismal 10%, a far cry from the already dismal 25% average mr avramopoulos recognised the other day. isn't it surprising that thousands of refugee children are crossing europe, risking all kinds of dangers? every missing child, every child in trafficking networks, every child caught in terrorist networks is our responsibility. one missing child is too many, and i want spain, my country, to take full responsibility and to keep its word.
mr president, i thank mrs valenciano and mr diaz de mera for their report. the crisis experienced over the last two years at europe's borders has shown us some of the inadequacies of the union's migration policy. important efforts are being made - for example, the creation of the european border and coast guard or the initiatives on asylum and visas - but we all know that the union's migration policy requires a global approach that strengthens its external dimension. arrivals have decreased substantially on the eastern mediterranean route, but in the central mediterranean they are increasing year by year. stabilisation of libya, the main country of origin, is of vital importance. so is the materialization of long-term cooperation with other of our african neighbours, where a major 'youth bubble' is being generated. a strong partnership and comprehensive collaboration with countries of origin and transit is essential to channel migration flows, tackling, as far as possible, the problems at their source - poverty, insecurity, lack of horizons, etc. i therefore welcome the valletta action plan and the launching of the 'senegal, mali, ethiopia, niger, nigeria' partnership frameworks, as well as the proposal for the external investment plan, which the commission has put forward. mass movements of people are a challenge that affects us all: there is no individual solution. i hope that the work begun at the high-level meeting on the large movements of refugees and migrants in new york last september will be followed up seriously and that the european union will be given a prominent place. our proximity to africa certainly demands it.
mr president, commissioner, the challenge of migration and refugees is not just for the council of ministers of the interior, is it? no, of course not: it has an outer dimension. and so we welcome the report by our colleagues, but many socialists demand that the dignity and human rights of refugees be respected regardless of their legal status, and we also say that it is not acceptable that conditionality is a mechanism to determine that only countries that commit themselves to readmission or control policies can be helped, and that the criminalisation of humanitarian aid, now permitted by the so-called 'facilitation directive', should disappear. we demand safe passageways, humanitarian visas, humanitarian corridors as a legal way of entering the european union, and that the european parliament be involved in defining and implementing policy, as well as in its budget calculation. but above all, we want to change the negative and prejudiced view of immigration policy. we reject the agreement with turkey. we demand a change in this prejudiced view and a full demand that the council fulfill its commitments on resettlement and relocation, finally changing this security approach to a humanitarian approach.
mr. president, 2015 saw a record number of forcibly displaced people: 65 million worldwide. and in the face of this global phenomenon, the european union and the member states have been unable to give a coordinated, united and effective response to this whole movement of forcibly displaced people which has also affected us. that is why the report we are going to adopt today is so necessary and timely. and for that we must also congratulate the co-rapporteurs - and i would especially like to congratulate elena valenciano - because today we are sending - sends parliament - a very clear message in this matter. first, we need legal and safe ways of entry to stop the deaths in the mediterranean. secondly, we need a relocation system that works, because the current one is not working; only 25% of what was committed has been met. thirdly, we must reject the policy of externalising our obligations in the field of asylum and reception, and, above all, we must say that the agreement with turkey is the kind of externalisation we want to reject. and fourth, we need to get to the root of the problem, be a stronger and more influential actor, able to stabilize and pacify a burning middle east and north africa.
mr president, i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs. the data tells us that in the last five years the number of refugees has increased by 50 percent, and most of them live with no prospects and in a situation of prolonged displacement. repatriations are very few and local integration is non-existent. i just came from lebanon, where in one of the many refugee settlements i met rami, a boy whose hair turned white when his father was killed in a bombing. this is just one of the tragic stories that one can hear from those one and a half million refugees living in lebanon, a country that gives us an important lesson in solidarity. everyone wants to go back to syria, but where and when? their homes are destroyed and the war continues. i ask the high representative to direct all her efforts towards the search for peace and security in that region, because in the end those who suffer are always the same: those who have lost everything and who, as many of them told me, have only their god and their dignity left.
the rapporteur. i would like to apologize to mr díaz de mera, who will probably not be able to be in the part of the debate where he has to speak because he has had to go to his group. i think the debate has been quite enlightening. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for being here. i regret that the council is not here, frankly, because i think that a large part of the problem we are dealing with has to do with the repeated failures of the governments of the member states. i want you to tell mrs mogherini that we are clearly supporting the strategy that they are deploying, but we want to keep a close eye on how things are going to go, and i think this parliament has not only the right, but the duty to do so. you have already seen, commissioner, that between the xenophobia - evident in some of our colleagues, despite the fact that they belong to countries that have often had to seek refuge and asylum - and the xenophobia - the decadence - of some who want to close all borders, and the rampant populism which considers that the action of the european union and the member states in the mediterranean is to militarize the sea, we are faced with two positions with which we will not do anything good for refugees and migrants. fortunately, i would like to thank the rest of my colleagues, the rest of the groups who have participated constructively in the preparation of this report, which is intended to shed some light on a phenomenon which will be with us for a long time, and i would also like to thank mr díaz de mera, who has worked faithfully and constructively on this report. i think we have tackled tonight one of the most serious problems facing the european union because it affects its credibility, it affects its values and, above all, it is leaving out of the picture thousands of human beings who are suffering. i believe that just as we monitor member states when they fail to meet their budgetary and fiscal commitments, we must monitor member states when they fail to meet their solidarity commitments. and i think we have the instruments to put pressure on those member states which are not fulfilling their commitments, because we cannot try to give lessons to the world if we are unable to set an example ourselves. i am glad that the council is here now, now that the debate is over.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, the s&d group has on many occasions expressed its concern about the structural shortcomings and the scarcity of resources available in the context of the current financial framework. during the negotiations on this financial framework, we were already aware of the terrible consequences of the reduction in resources compared with the previous framework, and we opposed it. and thanks to this opposition, we were at least able to achieve some achievements: greater flexibility, a mandatory mid-term review, a roadmap for the reform of the union's revenue system, and even some new priorities such as, for example, the european youth guarantee. and it is good that we have achieved these improvements, because to the multiple crises facing the union today we should have added the budgetary crisis. in these first years we have used up all the room for manoeuvre we had to finance new needs, such as the launching of the european investment plan, the care of refugees, humanitarian aid and the fight against youth unemployment. but let us not be mistaken: this has had important budgetary consequences, especially in areas such as competitiveness, research or transport. that is why this review is so important, because we have no room for manoeuvre; we cannot continue to cut programmes to finance new needs, because these needs are still there. and that is why we also value this revision positively: it represents a potential increase of eur 6 billion between now and 2020, and this will allow us to strengthen key programmes for the future of the union in research, transport or education. it will also enable us to give greater support to smes, to double the european investment plan and to refinance the youth employment initiative at once. and this will also give us the opportunity to launch new investment and development plans for the countries around us, to provide resources for the european asylum support office or to develop a genuine european policy for the management of our borders. but, unfortunately, once again the 'creation' council has not been ambitious enough or courageous enough to dare to make a real review based on a rigorous analysis of needs and priorities and putting all the necessary means in place. but we in this parliament do not lose hope. as soon as we have adopted this revision, we shall get down to work - the commission will do the same - without wasting a single minute on a new proposal for the future. we know very well that changing the dynamics - and the council reminded us of this - and the decisions in the council is a task that requires a lot of patience. we know that we have to keep pushing and that we have to prove, day by day, that things can and should be done differently and better. but that's why, as einstein said, we did it because we didn't know it was impossible.
mr president, the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 has been overtaken by events. the brexit, the investment crisis, the banking crisis, the poverty generated in the periphery and the border crisis show that the corsets that this framework forces us to have failed. it is not enough to engineer budgets to move small numbers or to resort to private investment schemes and guarantee funds that escape democratic control to patch up the problems we face. we need a policy that strengthens the union's own resources, a policy based on direct and progressive taxation, together with national contributions based on economic capacity and weighted by the per capita income of each country; a multiannual financial framework that, in terms of spending, is able to stimulate a new and ambitious plan of public investment for europe, socially ecological and job-creating, in initiatives committed to the change of model and to the energy transition.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ježek, once again for his good cooperation. tomorrow the greens/efa group will not vote on this amendment to the directive. we shall abstain, among other things, because we believe that it establishes a regime for the publication of simplified brochures by companies which are too large, and what we are doing, in a way, is reducing the capacity and the protection of some consumers when the brochure is printed. however, i do want to thank the rapporteur and also welcome - and that is why we will not vote against - the fact that an obligation has been introduced in article 7 and article 16 for all issuers to state under what conditions these financial products can be subject to internal recapitalisation, in application of the bank resolution directive. we think that was a very important part, also because of what has happened in the past with the sale of some financial products, which some people, without knowing it, bought and then lost all their money. so, on that point, which we think is a positive one, we shall abstain tomorrow.
president-in-office of the council. as they said several weeks ago, the letter of notification from the united kingdom was received by the president of the european council, mr tusk, and there was also the european council's reaction to this notification. everyone also knows that president tusk a few hours later was holding a meeting with the presidency of the rotating council of malta and there too there were the first reactions together with those present, and although some referred to this day of 29 march as a historic one, i think that one must have discussions such as those that the institution that you lead is doing today, mr president, without hysteria, where everyone gives his views on this separation that we will have from the united kingdom. i think that institutions can only have a positive experience if they act in an orderly manner and keep in mind the best interests: the european union's citizens, businesses and businesses alike, as well as want to work to reduce the negative impact that we are aware of because it is a loss for all parties and so it is crucial to minimise the negative impacts for european union citizens, and so also to achieve the balance of the respective rights and obligations. the position and statement of the european council, responding to prime minister may's letter, was published and i think that was the first step in showing that the 27 member states are united and have one message one message on this situation, and i think it is now crucial that in the coming weeks this is maintained until the guidelines are adopted by the european council itself, and then we continue to work within this framework as one union. as you know, the european council is called for 29 april and during this european council the guidelines for these negotiations will be agreed. i think it is therefore an opportune time for this parliament to be discussing and giving its thoughts and position on the principles and priorities of the negotiations today and i would like to recall how the maltese prime minister, when also addressing this same institution at the beginning of the maltese presidency, emphasised how crucial it is that this institution a democratic institution, all of you elected by your respective peoples is kept at the heart of this process not just because it is stated in the treaties but because it should be. and i can assure you that that position has been expressed by the maltese prime minister and the maltese presidency at every meeting we have had during these three months. i also understand that the priorities and principles are similar, where you also think that the interests of our citizens should be put first on these negotiating priorities. obviously, yes, there is a financial settlement that needs to be discussed, and it should be a priority too and then then pursue the approach to the negotiations. the union too, we believe, should work on the principle of sincere cooperation with the united kingdom until it leaves the european union itself and after the guidelines have been agreed in the european council, mr president, the council will move immediately to implement the decision and then authorize the opening of negotiations and the negotiating directives on the substance on which as presidency we are also working in parallel. they also anticipated that these negotiations themselves would start towards the end of the maltese presidency when these negotiating directives are adopted. here i would like to point out perhaps rightly so all those who have spoken and perhaps will speak today will focus on brexit but this european union has a much more positive agenda to discuss, to solve, to decide, in favour of european citizens, and so it is important and crucial to strike the balance: yes we take the uk exit negotiations seriously but equally so; i am convinced that the maltese presidency is committed and i am also convinced that those who will come after us, as well as you as a parliament, will continue to work on the various dossiers and files we have in order to continue to give the positive answers that european citizens expect from us about their future, and i am convinced that you will also be working together with the other institutions to do this in the weeks, months and years to come. this is also to continue to honour and now implement what the 27 member states agreed together in rome, and thus the future of the european union and the answers we must give to european citizens for the years to come. let us enter into this time and also this commitment with a constructive approach. arrangements are also being made in the council to ensure that what remains, as i said, the other work to be done, is done in the most serene way and therefore also with a clear separation between the work that will continue on 28 and the work that will be done on the exit negotiations on 27, in order, as i said earlier, to achieve the objectives we have. i am convinced that if the european union works in this most efficient way and in this sequence, we should have the best results for ourselves and our citizens, above all.
president of the commission. – mr president, there is no better place to start the debate on our negotiations with the united kingdom than in the place where they are supposed to end in less than two years’ time. in a defining and challenging moment for our union, the role of this parliament is more important than ever. you must scrutinise and validate the final agreement. no negotiation, no separation without representation. this is the reason that from the very start i pushed for this house to have a full and active role in the process. i would like to thank and congratulate my friend guy verhofstadt and all parties involved for the speed and clarity of the resolution that you are voting on today. i will not give a detailed response today on each point but, given the cross-party support in this house, it is clear that we are on the same lines when it comes to the big issues. that is absolutely crucial because this is the time to stay united, this is the time to stay undivided. during these negotiations, every one of our institutions and every one of our 27 member states must be singing from the same hymn sheet. the stronger we are as 27, the stronger we will be in the negotiations. you already know our chief negotiator michel barnier very well, but over the course of the next two years you will become even more familiar with him. i have to say, before the start of the negotiations that he is doing a good job. sometimes, not very often, i take wrong decisions but – don’t laugh – but one of the best decisions i have taken since i have been president of the commission was the appointment of michel barnier as our chief negotiator. (applause) it is normal that your parliament will have a say on the final deal, but more importantly, you are the checks and balances during the negotiations themselves. this is fundamentally a constitutional question for our union: a third country cannot have the same benefits as a member state. this parliament must, and will, ensure that this reality is fully upheld over the course of the next two years. we will negotiate in friendship and openness, not in a hostile mood, with a country that has brought so much to our union, and will remain close to our hearts long after they have left. but this is now the time for reason, rather than emotion. sehr verehrter herr präsident, meine damen und herren, liebe kollegen! es geht bei diesen verhandlungen nicht nur um verträge und paragrafen, schon gar nicht um diplomatisches pingpong oder intergouvernementales scharmützel. es geht um das leben von vielen millionen menschen. mehr als vier millionen menschen haben berufliche und familiäre brücken von und nach großbritannien geschlagen und damit grundlegende biografische entscheidungen, ja lebensentscheidungen getroffen. sie haben sich in ihre arbeit gestürzt mit vollem vertrauen in die zuverlässigkeit der europäischen union, haben kinder in die schule geschickt, erfolgreich geschäfte gemacht und sich so ein auf dauer angelegtes leben aufgebaut. wenn wir nun in die verhandlungen einsteigen, dann tun wir dies auch und vor allem in ihrem namen. die kommission wird fürsprecherin der direkt betroffenen diesseits und jenseits des kanals sein. wir treten dafür ein, dass arbeitnehmer, unternehmer, studenten, rentner nicht diejenigen sein werden, die den preis für den brexit zahlen. menschen sind keine verhandlungsmasse. (beifall) und sie dürfen nicht zum faustpfand in den verhandlungen werden. ihre interessen sind unser auftrag, und wir werden deshalb sicherstellen, dass die britische brexit-entscheidung sie nicht in unsicherheiten und ins ungewisse stürzt. das gilt übrigens auch für alle diejenigen, die sich auf eu-projekte verlassen, die bereits geplant und genehmigt sind. eingegangene versprechen, eingegangene verpflichtungen sind absolut einzuhalten! allgemein gilt: eine ungeordnete scheidung ist der denkbar ungünstigste fall. kein deal, das wäre ein äußerst nachteiliges szenario für viele menschen und für viele familien, ein nachteiliges szenario für forschung, für polizeiliche zusammenarbeit, für handel. kurzum, kein deal heißt: niemand gewinnt, alle werden verlieren. deshalb werden wir die verhandlungen mit großbritannien so führen, dass wir die menschlichen, wirtschaftlichen, politischen unwägbarkeiten des brexit so weit wie möglich abmildern. wir wollen in aller fairness verhandeln – in aller fairness, ja, aber ohne nachsichtige naivität. ich weiß: sanfte neugeburten sehen verlockend aus. aber – ich möchte das auch herrn farage sagen – nicht die europäische union verlässt großbritannien, großbritannien verlässt die europäische union. (beifall) unsere scheidungsanwälte, vor allem michel barnier, werden nun im detail die vielen errungenschaften auseinanderdividieren müssen, die wir in 44 jahren gemeinsamer, nicht krisenfreier ehe angehäuft haben. dies ist die notwendige voraussetzung, damit unsere neue partnerschaft auf eine solide grundlage zu stehen kommt. neue partnerschaften können erst nach sauberer, klarer, unmissverständlicher, nicht interpretierbarer klärung früherer verhältnisse erfolgen. parallele verhandlungen über die zukunft können nicht stattfinden. verhandlungen über die zukunft finden erst statt, wenn die fragen, die uns aus der vergangenheit erwachsen, allesamt zufriedenstellend geklärt sind. (beifall) monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs les députés, le choix du royaume-uni de sortir de l’union, c’est un choix qui annonce la fin de l’union européenne à 28. la séparation qui se profile à l’horizon me rend profondément triste. le choix du peuple britannique, si respectable qu’il soit, ne va dans le sens ni de l’histoire continentale, ni de l’histoire mondiale. toutefois, la séparation annoncée marque une nouvelle naissance, celle de l’union européenne à 27. cette union européenne à 27 fonctionne déjà: dès le mois de septembre de l’année passée, les 27 se sont réunis à bratislava pour adopter une feuille de route qui englobe nos priorités pour les années à venir. ce travail de réflexion et d’action s’est poursuivi lors du sommet de malte en février dernier pour connaître son apogée lors de la célébration du soixantième anniversaire de l’union européenne, à rome, le 25 mars dernier. à rome, nous avons renouvelé nos vœux de mariage, par choix et fierté, avec le sentiment d’avoir accompli, sans l’avoir terminé, notre devoir à l’échelle du continent. loin d’en rester là, nous allons continuer à bâtir l’édifice européen avec une énergie renouvelée. alors que nous étions réunis à rome, une mobilisation citoyenne et populaire en faveur de notre projet commun s’exprimait avec vigueur dans beaucoup de villes européennes. je voudrais saluer, et avec une certaine émotion, tous ceux qui, dans nos rues et sur nos places publiques, marchent pour l’europe. ils me rappellent l’ardeur des pères fondateurs de l’europe. (applaudissements) aujourd’hui, nous devons opérer des choix quant à la façon dont nous voulons travailler, agir et progresser concrètement ensemble. ce débat peut prendre appui sur le livre blanc publié par la commission. ce débat sur l’avenir et le devenir de l’europe, nous devons l’organiser dans toute l’europe avec nos parlements nationaux, avec nos régions, si nécessaires pour notre cohésion, avec nos sociétés civiles, avec les artistes et les créateurs, sans l’apport desquels nous ne serions pas devenus ce que nous sommes. les choix que nous faisons maintenant, aujourd’hui, demain, d’ici deux ans ou d’ici 2025 doivent tenir compte de leurs conséquences non seulement pour nous, mais surtout pour les générations à venir, parce que nous serons jugés non pas sur ce qui nous a été légué, mais sur ce que nous aurons laissé en héritage.
chief negotiator. mr president, greetings to each and every one of you, ladies and gentlemen. thank you, mr president, for allowing me to speak directly to your parliament today, as a negotiator and alongside president juncker, who first of all trusted me with this mission, and i thank him. i would like to commend the very important work you have already done together under the aegis of president tajani with all the groups and committees and, of course, behind guy verhofstadt and his team. dear guy, we have started working constructively and efficiently and i am sure that this will continue until the end of the road. so, ladies and gentlemen, your resolution today will be the first political statement by a european institution in response to theresa may's letter to the president of the european council last week. with this resolution you will set the tone by addressing, of course, the british government, the governments of the 27 countries of the european union, but also and above all the european citizens. i am sure that i understand the message you are trying to convey to me. our common objective is to make this negotiation a success, that is to say, to reach an agreement. there are three conditions for this, which i would like to recall briefly. the first condition, which has just been underlined by jean-claude juncker, is unity. it is by remaining united that we will best defend together the interests of the 27 countries of the european union and their citizens and, at the same time, as each of the group chairmen has stressed, the fundamental principles and values on which the european project, which was reiterated in rome, has been based since day one. unity is essential not only for the union but also for our british partners. at the end of the road - and i would like to say this so that everyone is convinced - if the union were disunited, we would simply run the risk of not reaching an agreement. but failure to agree - as philippe lamberts has emphasized very strongly earlier - would have very serious consequences. of course, first and foremost for the united kingdom, but also for the union. that is why i repeat that the scenario of no deal is not ours. our ambition must be to succeed, not against the united kingdom but with the united kingdom. not against the united kingdom but with the united kingdom. mrs helga stevens, i have heard your appeal. to do that, we will need to explain not only what we are doing but also why we are doing it. we have a duty to the citizens to tell the truth. perhaps we should finally say objectively, without aggression and calmly what brexit means, what simply leaving the european union means. may i also say that this negotiation should have an educational dimension for all of us? it will be an opportunity to recall, or even rediscover, day by day all the progress we have made together and often forgotten: progress for the daily lives of citizens, consumers and businesses. ladies and gentlemen, our unity will be all the stronger if it is built on transparency and public debate. this extraordinary negotiation - which must remain extraordinary - which we will conduct in transparency will not be a secret negotiation. the second condition is to remove uncertainties. where the united kingdom's decision to leave the union creates uncertainty and insecurity, our role is to restore certainty and legal certainty, first for citizens, but also for beneficiaries of the european budget, in the united kingdom and in the other countries of the union as well as at the union's borders. to remove this uncertainty, the principles i will be defending on your behalf must be perfectly clear. for european citizens in the united kingdom and vice versa, the continuity and reciprocity of the rights they currently enjoy, until the day of brexit, will have to be effectively guaranteed and without discrimination, as president pittella has just said forcefully. i have of course listened to what the group chairmen have said in turn. the letter from theresa may also calls for a swift agreement on this issue. but, ladies and gentlemen, and i can say this in the light of the work i have been doing with our team for the last six months, the devil is in the details. we will have to ensure, beyond an agreement in principle, that this agreement provides effective guarantees for the citizens, as president juncker has just said, and it will also be the role of parliament to be vigilant. for the budget, a single financial regulation will cover all the commitments that the united kingdom has made to us, and we to it, as a member state. again, your resolution is unequivocal. we will never seek to punish the united kingdom. i never will! we will ask the united kingdom to pay simply what it has committed itself to as a member state. ladies and gentlemen, mr farage, we simply have to settle the accounts, no more, no less. no more, no less than that! (applause) i would like to thank finally, for the frontiers, particularly in ireland - as mrs gabriele zimmer has pointed out - arrangements will have to be found which never call into question the existing fragile balances, dialogue and, in particular, the good friday agreement, while naturally being compatible with eu law. the third condition is doing things in the right order and putting them into perspective. the uk letter makes clear that the uk government will push for parallel negotiations on withdrawal and on future relations. this is a very risky approach. to succeed, we need, on the contrary, to devote the first phase of negotiations exclusively to reaching an agreement on the principles of the exit. we are not proposing this to be tactical or create difficulties for the uk. on the contrary, it is an essential condition to maximise our chances of reaching an agreement together within two years, which is very short. it is also our best chance, as manfred weber mentioned very clearly, to build trust before proceeding to the second phase of negotiations. this second phase will be devoted to scoping our future relations and to discussing the necessary transitional arrangements. in other words, the sooner we agree on the principles of an orderly withdrawal, the sooner we can prepare our future relations in trade: obviously, a free and fair trade agreement, a level playing field, but also in security and defence. it is on the basis of these three conditions - unity, lifting uncertainty, and phasing of negotiations - that we can succeed, and your resolution will set the tone. i hope that the european parliament will make these three conditions its own. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i would just like to say a word about our joint work from now until the end of the road. as president juncker has said, your role in these negotiations will be essential from start to finish. the beginning is today's resolution, and the end will be your vote on the draft withdrawal agreement that we will be negotiating for two years. with this vote, you'll have the final say. the democratic debate on this negotiation, which is not and will not be a negotiation like any other, will take place first of all in the european parliament. this public debate, here and in each of your countries, is essential to the success of brexit, but also to reaching an agreement on other future relations, which, i remind you, will have to be ratified by your parliament and also by the national parliaments. all along the way, we're going to work together, every step of the way, every moment. that is why i am pleased to be here today, to have had the opportunity to speak alongside president juncker and the council, and that is why i will continue to work in confidence with president donald tusk and his team on the eve of the extraordinary european council on 29 april. i shall remain available for your conference of group chairmen, for the conference of committee chairmen and, as far as i am able, for each of your groups. in conclusion, i simply want to confirm that throughout this long and extraordinary negotiation, my team and i will always be at your disposal.
mr president, over the last three hundred years british politicians have been so often right with the right side of politics that they have come to believe that the right thing to do was simply to be english. and that's where, unfortunately, they're wrong now. they are wrong because reason is always on the side of solidarity. they are wrong to leave, but they want to organise the lives of those of us who are left, as today, when the conservatives present a plan for the future of a european union in which they will no longer be. they are wrong when they want us to close the single market to scotland, which wants to be european, but they want to keep us in gibraltar, which is not constitutionally part of the united kingdom and is a tax haven. they are mistaken when they fail to see that extreme nationalism leads to racism. it's only been seven days since brexit and we still hear scorn for spain and the most nationalist with the word 'war' in their mouths. they are mistaken if they think that outside the european union they will have the same friends as inside, the same rights as inside, the same opportunities as inside. you are mistaken if you think that europeans prefer a good fight to a good deal. they are wrong if they treat the european union as a divisive project without realizing that the united kingdom is also divisive. they are mistaken if they think that the european union is not going to defend each and every one of its member states, that we are not going to give up on the future. europe is the biggest market in the world. europe is the world's greatest area of peace, freedom and security. europe is the world's largest provider of social services. europe is the best idea that 20th century politicians had. we're not giving up. you're wrong if you think it doesn't hurt us that they're gone. it hurts, and it hurts a lot. unfortunately, this time it is going to be the united kingdom that is walking on the wrong side of history. i say this with friendship, i say this with loyalty. you're wrong. you're going to get hurt. they're going to hurt us all. i say to you with equal loyalty, may they rectify their mistake. and i say to you also, may you not be blinded by pride.
madam president, to this point almost everything has been said on brexit, even if nothing has been done so far. i will just underline four ideas that seem to me of the utmost importance on the subject. firstly, the resolution on which this parliament voted today sets the framework for any future negotiation. five parliamentary groups have, happily, presented it. secondly, both sides have to concentrate on fair and discreet negotiations, conducted in a spirit of good faith and political rigour. thirdly, we will have to learn to divorce, since we have not been able to learn to live better together. that means we have to prepare a future that can make it possible to combine distance with collaboration. fourthly, and finally, as chair of the efa group, i wish to express my conviction that both parts will be able to give fair treatment not just to the territories that have expressed their will to remain: scotland, northern ireland and gibraltar, but also to wales. we have a long way in front of us. let’s honour each other at least with two virtues: loyalty and courage.
madam president, i want to start by telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that there have been interventions this morning that have seemed to me gratuitously aggressive. i don't think the path of this negotiation is that important to us. firstly, i would like to say that we need to have a tough negotiation on the conditions for withdrawal. europe has the right to establish a requirement that leaving the club is not free, that it is not better to leave than to stay. it is a cost-based pedagogy that europe must establish as a condition of its own continuity. secondly, i think it is important to point out to mr barnier that it might be important that at the same time as we negotiate the exit from the european union, we have a framework that ensures the rights of the four million british and european citizens who live together, because it is important that that agreement is simultaneous with the exit. and thirdly, i would like to reclaim what i believe is the end of this process. we must seek an agreement, but, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement which must also be the fruit of a desire to live together, also with gibraltar. spain does not intend to make a war of sovereignty, it does not intend to make a war of sovereignty with gibraltar, but spain has a pending historical dispute and wants to live with gibraltar. but we cannot accept that there is a colony in europe in the 21st century either: you have to understand that. this is the will of spain.
mr president, what was asked of the european parliament today was to be high-minded in the face of the united kingdom's decision to leave the european union and to take a clear position on the recognition of acquired social rights, of residence, of mobility, of social security for british people residing in the european union and europeans living in the united kingdom. but we have fallen into a confrontation that will strengthen british nationalism. a cart on which the spanish government has signed up, for whom the sovereignty of gibraltar is a more important issue than the rights of the 12 000 workers who cross the fence every day. we must not lose ourselves in abstract discourses which hide, under the cloak of nationalism or a hollow europeanism, the neoliberalism shared by the european union and the united kingdom. we believe that future relations with the united kingdom must be based on solidarity and mutual recognition of fundamental rights, because there is another europe, the europe of the european social charter, the europe of the european convention on human rights, of which we will all continue to be part of.
mr. president, if we're talking about medical devices, we have to talk about essure. essure is advertised as a permanent birth control system without surgery. the multinational bayer has sold this device to a million women. since its approval in 2002, negative effects have been reported in women worldwide: heavy bleeding, pelvic pain, immune system disorders, and, to top it off, a high rate of unwanted pregnancies. the procedure to remove the device ends, in many cases, in a hysterectomy. essure has had appalling consequences for thousands of women. such a contraceptive method should never have been allowed to be marketed and its sale should be prohibited immediately. i am therefore pleased that the spanish national court has allowed a claim by the association of persons affected by essure: finally, the authorities responsible for monitoring a device like this will be investigated. something like this cannot happen again, at least in europe. we failed the women and now we must regain their trust.
mr. chairman, amnesty international, in its latest annual report for 2016, estimates that this has been the year of hate speech and demonization through the dissemination of messages that convey the dangerous idea that some people are less than others. in conclusion: rejection of the different. hate speech plays a fundamental role in perpetuating discriminatory stereotypes, whether it's based on race, gender, sexual orientation. and in this sense we must commit ourselves, from the european institutions, to putting our efforts into eradicating these stereotypes. in preparation for this debate i have read some reports. one of them said that in a study on misogyny, conducted over three weeks in april 2016 among users in one european country, more than 200,000 tweets were found with the word zorra or puta, finding that every ten seconds someone insults a woman with those words on twitter. and the truth is that as a button shows. a month ago, i was involved in a debate in this house which had media and public significance. i got a lot of messages through social media. one of them is this. i won't read it all, but it says: "mrs. iratxe garper you are dead, bitch". it has a picture of a woman chained and hanged and a picture of a hand with a gun. you will understand that to remain unmoved by this situation is to allow the values of the european project to deteriorate. it may seem to some that it is not important that we have these debates today, but i think that we must all be able to ensure that freedom of expression has limits and that limit is respect for the rights of individuals.
mr president, europe must seize the opportunities arising from the digital revolution, while at the same time facing the new political battle of populism against representative democracy. but citizens' confidence in european democracy must be restored. and to win the battle against populism, we cannot ignore the existing social unrest, something that populists take advantage of. we need to reconnect with the part of the citizenry that feels abandoned. to facilitate participation, europe must be brought closer to our regions through this parliament's increasing use of digital tools and through its information offices which tell our work to every citizen in his own language. at the same time, it is necessary to identify and fight against the techniques that are serving the populisms to go against the european union, especially through social networks. and in this area, it is urgent that digital platforms take responsibility. we must ensure that they do not contribute to spreading hate messages and fake news. they must cut off the channels that facilitate their dissemination and they must be more transparent, because citizens deserve to know how the information they receive is decided. fighting the tyranny of the algorithm is an ethical issue. we must also ensure that resources are available to combat disinformation coming in, for example, from russia. but it is not enough to deny the populism that seeks to delegitimize the union. we europeans must push for a strong european narrative. we need to communicate more and better about europe. because telling our citizens what europe does for them is the best way to regain the trust that has been lost. of course, having heard some of the views this afternoon in this debate, i am concerned, as much or more than the fake news, about the lack of respect, the excess of demagogy and the contempt for this institution and what it stands for.
madam president, they want this parliament to give lessons on how to fight hate speech, when it turns out that this house is full of members with violent speeches and the sanctions are laughable. mr korwin-mikke for making the nazi salute in the house or for his macho speech was only sanctioned with thirty days without diet. the other day they allowed a press conference in the parliament of the president of hazte oír, who is carrying out a transphobic campaign in spain. and not only the far right, the problem is that also from the centre of the chamber they are fuelling the hatred against migrants, every time they are linked to terrorism or branded as illegal against whom they must defend themselves. we are not here to lecture, least of all those who applauded viktor orbán at the european people's party congress in malta this weekend when he spoke of an invasion of immigrants.
madam president, commissioner, in times like these, polluted by hate speech, post-truth and fake news, as albert camus said, indifference can become criminal. another french philosopher, andré glucksmann, in his book hate speech, wrote that the first response must be to expose yourself to ridicule. but in europe we have learned that this is not enough. we have learned that the transposition of framework decision 2008/913/jha is necessary precisely to set the criminal limits of a threat to democracy in which europe risks everything. now it takes more. we need to find out how hate speech spreads, how it is financed, how to protect victims online and in the digital world, and of course we also need to know that calling things by their right names is the beginning of rigor to prevent the banalization of evil from being the seed of fascism. europe has a threat, it's called hate speech. and europe must give a response, a response that considers the limits of compromise in the face of those who despise the different and humiliate the inferior.
in writing. in times like these polluted by hate speech, post-truth and fake news, indifference can become criminal. framework decision 2008/913/jha needs to be correctly transposed in order to achieve its full effect and to help to establish the criminal limits of a threat to democracy in which europe risks everything. in addition, we need to find out how hate speech is spread, how it is financed, protect victims online and in the digital world and, of course, we also need to know that calling things by their name is the beginning of rigor to prevent the banalization of evil from being the seed of fascism. europe has a threat, it's called hate speech. and europe must give a response, a response that considers the limits of compromise in the face of those who despise the different and humiliate the inferior.
in writing. europe faces a threat, and that is the so-called hate speech. the european union must respond by setting limits to tolerance for those who despise the different and humiliate the inferior. we need to find out how hate speech is spread, how it is financed, and how to protect victims online and in the digital world. in times like these, polluted by hate speech, post-truth and fake news, indifference can become criminal. framework decision 2008/913/jha needs to be transposed correctly so that it can be fully effective and help to set the criminal limits of a threat to democracy, in which europe risks everything.
in writing. in times like these, polluted by hate speech, post-truth and fake news, indifference can become criminal. framework decision 2008/913/jha needs to be correctly transposed in order to achieve its full effect and to help to establish the criminal limits of a threat to democracy in which europe risks everything. in addition, we need to find out how hate speech is spread, how it is financed, protect victims online and in the digital world and, of course, we also need to know that calling things by their name is the beginning of rigor to prevent the banalization of evil from being the seed of fascism. europe has a threat, it's called hate speech. and europe must give a response, a response that considers the limits of compromise in the face of those who despise the different and humiliate the inferior.
in writing. under the name of hate speech, article 510 of the spanish penal code incorporates a catalogue of all-encompassing conduct that is punishable by a prison sentence of one to four years. criminal types such as the one i have just cited are the result that the legislator achieves when he is thinking exclusively of punishing and does not strictly respect the terms and concepts set out in dm2008/913/jai. today, a public opinion is almost inevitable as a result of the social media revolution. but what speech is liable to criminal prosecution? the trend in international law and the echr is not to condemn hate speech unless it directly contributes to discrimination or violence. i mean, he's advocating the narrow interpretation. this shows that member states do not always meet european standards and create hate crimes which symbolize contempt for freedom of expression, belief and ideology, which must not be forgotten, are fundamental rights. it's okay to use the law as a tailor's drawer. the european union and the european parliament must ensure that hate speech is only prosecuted when it genuinely generates a potential danger of discriminatory or violent acts.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 june, when any citizen of the european union uses a telephone, accesses the internet or sends a message, he will not have to pay any additional charges for being in a roaming situation. this is a huge step forward which benefits all the citizens of the european union, those who go out more and those who go out less, because it is an instrument to enable our companies, our professionals, our students to have greater freedom of movement, to have more and more opportunities in the european union, in all the countries that make it up. this is what you really have to consider. it was this parliament that proposed it. it was this parliament which approved it and negotiated it with the council - in close collaboration with the commission, of course. and we in this parliament must be very pleased that we have succeeded in getting these additional burdens out of the way by 15 june and have therefore taken a step towards the development of a european digital market, towards the development of a more integrated europe with more opportunities. in addition, we must be careful - as some members have said - to see whether or not distortions occur and whether or not they have an impact on the national market, because perhaps there are other factors than roaming. all this can also be taken into account, but today is a moment of real satisfaction, because we have taken a step forward in european integration, in responding to the real demands and needs of the citizens of the european union.
mr president, the union brings us a great deal in almost every area of our lives: in security, in welfare, in defence of our rights and freedoms, but also in our daily lives. this agreement is a good example of what we're talking about. the union is synonymous with mobility and, with this agreement, roaming will be history. this agreement will allow european consumers to benefit from affordable prices and travel using their phones without fear of exorbitant bills; they will use their phone, send their messages, use whatsapp as if they were at home. i sincerely believe that the disappearance of roaming will play a key role, a key role for the development of the whole digital ecosystem in europe. that is why i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this agreement. but today, above all, the european consumers are the lucky ones.
mr president, madam commissioner, in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on which i am rapporteur for the report on the visa code, i have always been in favour of visa facilitation and i voted in favour of visa exemption for ukrainian citizens who have biometric passports, as ukraine has long since granted this visa exemption to european citizens. ukraine has completed the six progress reports that were necessary to complete this dossier, the last one in december 2015, in the framework of the association agreement that was solemnly signed here in this european parliament and simultaneously in the verkhovna rada the ukrainian parliament in september 2015. that doesn't mean there's no problems. among them is the legislative procedure that seeks to impose electronic declarations of interests and assets on civil society associations fighting corruption, as if they should be treated the same as politicians, who have to show such commitment against corruption in a country like ukraine. but the fact is that this parliament has an obligation to uphold the rule of law, as it did when it protested the annexation of crimea or sevastopol by the russian federation.
member of the commission. – mr president, almost a year ago, in may 2016, high representative/vice—president federica mogherini was here in this plenary discussing the worrying situation in venezuela with you. since then the political, social and economic situation in the country has not improved. the political polarisation and institutional confrontation has further escalated, the economic situation is dire, the shortage of food and medicines has increased, there are reports of alarming child malnutrition, and the insecurity is only getting worse. i would therefore like to thank the parliament for the continuous attention you have been paying to the situation in venezuela. today’s discussion is timely as the dialogue between the government and the opposition has stalled and the country urgently needs to find a peaceful and democratic solution to this crisis. important efforts by the vatican and unasur facilitators to establish a dialogue between government and opposition have been taking place since may 2016. unfortunately, although the first two sessions of the dialogue in october and november had encouraging results, the commitments were not respected. the establishment of an electoral calendar, respect for the national assembly’s access to external assistance to address the most urgent needs of the population, and the release of political prisoners, remain key issues on which there has been little or no progress. the eu has not been observing the situation passively. we have been providing political and diplomatic support with a view to a meaningful and effective dialogue that can bring lasting and democratic solutions within the constitutional framework and in full respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. to this end, we continue our constant contacts with countries in the region and beyond, and with international and regional organisations from the united nations to the oas and unasur, to share views and coordinate actions wherever and whenever appropriate. the eu has repeatedly been calling for respect for the constitution, democratic principles, the rule of law and the separation and independence of powers which are crucial for the country to achieve a peaceful outcome to the current difficult situation. that is why we reacted immediately to the recent rulings of the venezuelan supreme court suppressing the competences of the national assembly and the immunity of parliamentarians, calling for full respect of the constitutional role of the national assembly and for the immunity of its members. for the democratic order to be guaranteed venezuela needs to establish an electoral calendar, as foreseen in the constitution, and to organise elections that are free, fair and inclusive. in 2017 the election of governors should be a priority. the eu remains ready to reinforce its support to help address the most urgent needs of the population, thus contributing to dealing with current humanitarian challenges. for the moment, our assistance remains limited due to difficulties of access to the country and it focuses on the distribution of food and medicines to the most vulnerable population, but other possibilities of support are also being explored.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, thank you to commissioner jourová. once again, the european parliament must deal with venezuela. it is an inexcusable obligation and while we are doing so, ladies and gentlemen, the venezuelan people with the opposition leaders at the forefront are being gassed in a brutal repression by the bolivarian regime. that the supreme court strips the legislature of its powers and takes over its functions faithfully depicts the totalitarian behavior that characterizes a dictatorship. what happened next was pathetic if not the most palmar proof of the absence of a separation of powers. the attorney general denounces the breakdown of the constitutional order and restores the previous situation. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the same hand is shaking the cradle. how long, mr president maduro, will you abuse the patience of a people who own a rich country, who are suffering from hunger and misery because of the actions of a satrap who will again accuse the european parliament of interference? it is time to say loud and clear, in the words of the secretary general of the oas, that the defense of democracy is not interventionist; and, furthermore, that "a parody of democracy is not democracy". the next step is to denounce the failure of the mediators who tried in good faith to take the path of dialogue. it is time to demand from the maduro regime the immediate release of all political prisoners, the establishment of a channel to preserve humanitarian assistance, the return to constitutional order, with full respect for the national assembly and its decisions. finally, it is also the inexcusable time for the european union and the high representative to make diplomatic means compatible with a more firm position in which the venezuelan people feel encouraged by the european union and regain the hope of freedom. and furthermore, madam commissioner, there should be no elections for governors, but for the president of the republic, which is what the people of venezuela are demanding.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, thank you, commissioner jourová, for bringing us the message from mrs mogherini. hugo chavez came to power with a left-wing populist speech, promising little less than paradise. today, venezuela is a political prison and a social catastrophe. we learned our lesson. populism is the road to dictatorship: institutions have been assaulted and subjugated; crime has taken over the streets and offices. the corruption of chavismo is total: there is no independent justice, no trace of the rule of law. democracy has finally been blown to smithereens. the european union must unwaveringly support the organization of american states in its demand that constitutional order be restored in venezuela. the dialogue process has failed. mrs mogherini, who refuses to recognize that leopoldo lópez is a political prisoner disqualifies himself as a mediator, and i'm talking about josé luis rodríguez zapatero. europe must send an unmistakable message to the maduro regime: all political prisoners must be released, elections must be held now and humanitarian aid must reach the people who need it. the self-styled european left, podemos and the united left, tried to prevent this debate. they don't want us to remind them of their linkage and collusion with chavismo. they denounce the narco-corruption of the venezuelan regime, they acknowledge the humanitarian crisis that is ravaging the country, they demand an end to brutal political repression, or they dare not give us a single lesson in democracy again.
mr president, while in mexico they were murdering the enésimo journalist and another mass grave was being dug, while in paraguay there were violent demonstrations against the president, parliament was being burned and opponents were being murdered, the oas, that ministry of colonies, was looking the other way and continuing the destabilizing obsession of its biggest arsonist, mr almagro. in the face of dialogue, confrontation; in the face of constitutional mechanisms, interference; in the face of truth, lies, accompanied by violent protests. why doesn't the oas denounce the contempt of the national assembly, which incorporates deputies who bought votes, which without constitutional competencies tries to remove an elected president and which disobeys judicial judgments? in view of this repeated disregard for the constitutional order, a conflict arose between the public authorities which was resolved constitutionally by peaceful means and through dialogue. instead of celebrating and supporting the dialogue, the oas convened the permanent council, unaware that the presidency of bolivia suspended the call because it had not been informed. even so, in violation of their own rules, they got the majority to carry out their plan against an elected power. we must stop meddling, because destabilizing venezuela is destabilizing latin america. the eu must not support violent options: it must accompany the dialogue between unasur and the vatican. it is up to venezuela to solve its problems, and the european union to respect sovereignty and international law. the opposite is a great hypocrisy.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, one more debate on venezuela. i think that the decision of the supreme court to take over the powers of the house was a very serious mistake, and i think we should be glad that this very serious mistake has been corrected. it would be necessary and more appropriate if normal functioning of the house could be restored, also by resolving the dispute over these three members who are, at the moment, a clear source of concern. at the moment there is - and our group shares it - a concern about the spiral of confrontation that may come, about the political confrontation that is being felt and that may degrade the situation in the country. that is why it is necessary, at this time - and we want to appeal to remain calm - to seek and help as much as possible to have the necessary detention mechanisms. the dynamics of entrenchment between institutions do not help to find a solution and we need to be able to help to find normal constitutional mechanisms of functioning that are mutually accepted by everyone. we therefore believe that it is time to redouble the international diplomatic efforts for mediation, especially by the latin american organizations, especially by the work that unasur can do and also by the work - which i believe and believe that the three former presidents - mr zapatero, mr trujillo and mr fernández - are doing very well - in order to find a negotiated and agreed solution and to ease the situation a little. and i would invite you - although these appeals from my group are usually ignored - to try to table a resolution in april which will help dialogue and relaxation, and not a resolution which, on the contrary, will further inflamed the situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the president of germany made a truly admirable speech in this very chamber. he said that anyone who undermines the action of parliaments undermines democracy. the government of venezuela no longer has any legitimacy, suspended from mercosur, condemned by the oas, it is really a government that violates the constitution, imprisons dissidents, closes the media such as the ntn24 channel and has brought a very rich country to economic ruin. commissioner, you speak of a peaceful solution. the face-off yesterday of opposition mps juan requesens, maría corina machado and others is a metaphor for what is happening today with democracy in venezuela: beaten, mistreated and bloodied, it is kept standing thanks to courageous men and women who in prison, on the street and in parliament are peacefully fighting for their freedom and for their dignity and for having a very basic thing that is free elections in venezuela.
mr president, it is clear that in the face of the serious crisis in venezuela, we must condemn the abuses of power, without any doubt. but i don't think we can just sit on that. if we want to help the dear venezuelan people, i think we have to do something more. it is also clear that by curtailing the independence of the national assembly, a new wound has been inflicted on venezuelan democracy, which is what we have to rescue. the backtracking also justifies - i think - a vote of confidence in the mediation efforts that are under way. i believe that the european union should continue to support efforts to find a solution to the venezuelan conflict based on law, based on dialogue and based on reconciliation. precisely because of the high level of confrontation that exists at the moment, we tell the government, we tell the institutions that they have to comply with the constitution, that the constitution is for that, to comply with it, and that democracy is what has to be made to work. democracy for what? democracy to strengthen institutions, democracy for the free exercise of politics and democracy also for reconciliation. for all that, the venezuelan government must take steps; for all that, we need, from the european union, to strengthen the efforts that exist so that mediation leads to a real reconciliation, because i do not know what the other solution is. the other solution is confrontation in the streets, probably, and then we can do very little. today we still have to call for an attempt at dialogue and reconciliation.
mr. president, i share with many of you that democracy is in danger in venezuela. i share that; i could even add to almost all the condemnations that are being made. but pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, because what is also in danger is the peace of the citizens in venezuela; pay attention, because there are two legitimate powers - beyond the fact that the government has been delegitimized in the exercise of power - two legitimate powers of origin, confronted. two peoples who are beginning to confront each other dangerously and two political projects that are hating each other. what is at stake is the future of that country and, as we want venezuela and we want peace in venezuela, what we have to establish is exactly our role. and, ladies and gentlemen, i dare not give up on dialogue. i know it can be very bad, but those who give up dialogue, what do you offer me? what do we europeans have to offer venezuela? what do we give them? because condemning the government, we've already done; supporting the opposition, we've already done. but what else do we do, ladies and gentlemen? only a political, democratic and international community-supported agreement between these two powers will provide a solution to venezuela's future. only a democratic but peaceful process that can be agreed upon and supported by the international community. why have the vatican, the united states and the european union itself not stopped supporting the dialogue? because it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen! let's work on that.
mr president, ibero-america has suffered the tragedy of passing from kleptocratic oligarchies to copopulist kleptocracies disguised as revolutionaries. venezuela has been impoverished by chavomadurism. to the country perhaps with the highest income in south america, a country that swims in abundance because of its oil income. and a country that impoverishes its people is deeply reactionary. but we are also talking about a reactionary and dictatorial power. because to speak of confrontation between the executive and the legislature is an aberration, in principle, given that the legislature has its own attributions, but in venezuela the judicial power is a scarecrow in the hands of the government, the legislative power is castrated and the only thing that reigns is the executive power. there is also talk of avoiding confrontation. we do not like confrontation, but it already exists and exists in the form not only of repression, but of armed militias: the bolivarian militias, the chavista militias. we need this house to take decisions that mean free elections, the release of prisoners and humanitarian aid.
mr. president, within the constitutional framework, the armed forces of venezuela must defend and protect their people or they will be held accountable before justice and history. venezuela needs our political commitment, our solidarity and our help more than ever. the chavista dictatorship in its most harsh and cruel version, which oppresses its people and has impoverished its noble people, no longer has the speech or resources to sustain a corrupt and liberticidal narcotrafficking regime. europe, the oas, the united nations and all the free governments of the world are crying out against the oppressors. we're talking about a maniacal legislature, a domesticated and show-off judiciary, a dependent and partial electoral power, and an executive that jails the best. they must now peacefully exile themselves to a nearby paradise and let venezuelans reclaim their democratic destiny. yes, exile for the chavista leadership in the hope of international justice, and peace and quiet for venezuela. democracy, bread, medicine and security. the citizens must not suffer any more.
mr president, the deterioration process in venezuela has become profoundly acute. deterioration of the institutional political climate, especially deterioration of the situation in the national assembly, which has been subject to permanent harassment since december 2015 and, as we have seen this weekend, the subject of a disparate decision of the supreme court, then corrected also in a surprising way. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. and more than a hundred political prisoners remain at large. my message, commissioner, to mrs mogherini is that the european union and the european union itself must be more involved in finding a solution to this serious situation. i do not understand your extreme restraint and the maintenance of a line that has borne no fruit. it contrasts sharply with the much more active position of the oas and mercosur itself. there are many principles that unite europeans with american peoples. the venezuelan people are asking for the same thing we have: respect for the rule of law and democracy and respect for fundamental rights. we cannot be silent or inactive. mrs. mogherini has to be more active.
in writing. a few days ago, the supreme court of venezuela annulled the powers of the national assembly where the opposition is in the majority and removed the parliamentary immunity of its deputies. we must not forget that parliament represents the people, it is the centre of democracy par excellence. these sentences represent an attack on democracy, which we can say does not exist in a country where it is clear that the separation of powers is not respected. the judiciary is in the hands of those who are loyal to the president, who has shown that he is capable of anything to hold on to power. unfortunately, it is the venezuelan citizens who suffer the consequences of their actions, who have to live in a country steeped in chaos, uncertainty and poverty. i am also concerned about the enormous influence that totalitarian states in the region, such as cuba, have over venezuela. maduro allows the extension of cuban tentacles in his public notaries and civil registries, ministries, social programs, the state oil company and the army. cuban advisors run the venezuelan government and any similarity in venezuela to the way it is repressed in cuba is no coincidence.
in writing. democracy is in danger in venezuela. we must denounce this situation, but we must go further, because peace is in danger. in venezuela there are two powers, the executive and the legislative, both with legitimate origins, which represent contradictory political projects, and whose radical confrontation puts the future of the country at risk. we in europe must not fan the flames by condemning the situation without offering a solution. we must not give up on dialogue, because only a democratic process leading to a political agreement agreed by the parties will provide a peaceful solution for the venezuelan people and hope for the future. that is why the vatican, the un and the high representative, mrs mogherini, continue to support dialogue, and that is why the european parliament must do the same.
in writing. democracy is in danger in venezuela. we must denounce this situation, but we must go further, because peace is in danger. in venezuela there are two powers, the executive and the legislative, both with legitimate origins, which represent contradictory political projects, and whose radical confrontation puts the future of the country at risk. we in europe must not fan the flames by condemning the situation without offering a solution. we must not give up on dialogue, because only a democratic process leading to a political agreement agreed by the parties will provide a peaceful solution for the venezuelan people and hope for the future. that is why the vatican, the un and the high representative, mrs mogherini, continue to support dialogue, and that is why the european parliament must do the same.
gue/ngl group. madam president, gelem, gelem, which means anduve, anduve: this is how the gypsy anthem begins, a few verses that draw from the nomadic history of the gypsy people and are full of meaning because they are inspired by the memory of the gypsies and gypsy women victims of the nazi holocaust. in 1971 8 april was declared the international day of the roma people, to defend their rights, and today we are here to commemorate that day - and it is very positive that it is the subject of debate in this european parliament - but above all to speak up and denounce the increase in hate crimes against the roma community and to make clear all the work that remains to be done in social and labour policy in this regard. it is good to have a day marked on the calendar; it gives visibility and sensitivity to the population, but the roma people have suffered discrimination, segregation and levels of poverty and social exclusion for decades, well above the european and national averages, especially when we talk about women and children. we must work with the whole of society to end negative stereotypes towards the roma people, and the best way is to promote real and effective integration, socio-labour insertion and access to decent housing and to eliminate special schools, which in some countries still segregate roma girls and boys and put at risk the individual and collective development of young people. and it is essential in this sense to fight against institutionalized anti-gypsyism, which we have cases of all over europe, in all the countries of europe. i would like to end by mentioning only two: the roma camps in italy and the 2,582 roma who were evicted by the security forces in france. we have a lot of work to do in the institutions too.
madam president, anti-gypsyism is a major problem in the european union. roma women and men are the largest minority on the continent, and there are authorities and institutions that have systematic discrimination policies towards them. today, there are eu countries such as hungary which, under a european people's party government, segregate roma pupils in separate schools. in the european union there are cases of discrimination and segregation in other sectors, such as healthcare or access to housing. the european union's people are being forced to accept austerity measures. the principle of equality, which is enshrined in all the union's treaties, is ignored, and the states discriminate without the european union doing anything at all. the reason is that this is a systematic discrimination which means that in spain only 15% of roma men and women complete compulsory education, that their unemployment rate is almost ten points higher than the average, or that one in ten live in housing without the minimum living conditions. this is a direct consequence of the poverty and stigma associated with a population that is constantly ignored and invisible. what is not named does not exist, and that is why the comprehensive recognition of roma identity and history is fundamental. we have worked towards the creation of this european day of remembrance of the gypsy holocaust. but we are afraid that it will again be a cosmetic matter: when we hear members of the same parties that segregate children in hungary or slovakia say that they support these initiatives, the truth is that they are quite empty of any claim.
madam president, roma women and men are full citizens of the european union, possess their own cultural traits and share a common identity, which does not detract from their citizenship, but rather the opposite: it is a wealth for our society. and we have made progress in the social sphere, in access to education, in the labour market, but there is still much to be done, and the speeches we have heard here today clearly convey that message. we must fight against stereotypes, against those stereotypes which attribute certain behaviours to a part of the population. it is unacceptable, it is shameful to hear meps say that the roma population is the one who is stealing, the one who is creating conflict. ask yourself and ask the citizens who they think are the real thieves of their country. i think it is unacceptable, that we have to fight against stereotypes, that we have to move forward together, work together for social inclusion and fight against hate messages like the ones we have had to hear this morning in this parliament.
madam president, europe has much to remember and to acknowledge in order to fully reconcile itself with its largest persecuted minority, the jewish minority, the roma minority, which was also a victim of the holocaust, but above all a victim of the hate speech, full of prejudice, which we have had to hear here, to the shame of this house, from meps of the extreme right-wing populist camp. this parliament is the temple of the word and cannot be sullied by these infamous words which seek to stigmatise an entire community which is part of the cultural and ethnic diversity which enriches the complexity and diversity factory that is the european union. on 15 april 2015, this parliament adopted a resolution calling on the commission to seek to involve the member states in the good practices for the integration of the roma community in the european union, for example in my country, spain. but what is essential is that we finally turn those words into deeds and make the roma community an example not only of self-criticism but of lifelong learning of europe's commitment to the promise of the european union.
in writing. all europeans are born with equal rights and therefore we must fight against all forms of discrimination, including on grounds of ethnic origin. the roma community suffers from an employment exclusion rate of over 75%, which makes it absolutely necessary to properly implement the employment equality directive, as well as to strengthen the role of specialised ngos in encouraging their participation in the labour market, providing information on their rights and improving the collection of data on discrimination, as in many cases lack of trust leads to no complaints being lodged. however, in my view, the priority must be education and training. ensuring that children are in school, firstly, and preventing school drop-out, secondly, are basic requirements, as they not only improve employment prospects, but also contribute to greater participation in society, which ultimately reduces poverty and social exclusion. finally, in order to achieve greater integration of the roma community in society and thus contribute to ending discrimination, we must support access to decent housing.
mr president, belarus continues to be at odds with the fundamental principles governing the european union, such as freedom of expression for citizens, respect for human rights and freedom of the media. lukashenko presides over belarus from a pseudo-dictatorial position, and let us not forget that the death penalty is in force in that country and that there are dozens of political prisoners in its prisons. the european union must therefore be firm and forceful, forceful in the face of this belarusian government, which is a satellite of the russian government of putin. that is why the resolution is directed against the repression of the belarusian citizens and also to the release of political prisoners, and it will have the full support of my group in this parliament.
author. mr. president, bangladesh has passed a legal reform allowing child marriage under certain circumstances, but these certain circumstances leave the door open to legalize a practice that is already very common. according to unicef, bangladesh has the second highest rate of child marriage in the world and the highest in asia. more than half of girls - it has already been said here - are married before the age of eighteen and the number is very high before the age of fifteen. this legislative reform is a step backwards in the field of human rights, and especially in the field of the rights of women and girls. we must not forget that child marriage is often the result of poverty and inequality, that is to say, it is combated by effective social policies, especially in education and health, including, of course, respect for the health and sexual and reproductive rights of girls because, many times, unwanted pregnancies are what lead to child marriage. we must not forget the serious situation in this country with regard to workers' rights, social freedoms, freedom of expression and opinion. the reports of arbitrary arrests, extortion and torture of trade unionists, opposition figures and human rights defenders are both very common and very alarming. the commission should therefore initiate an investigation into compliance with international conventions on human and labour rights as soon as possible. we cannot continue to offer a system of generalized preferences to a country in which human rights violations are becoming more serious every day, especially against women.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, we only hear about bangladesh when there is an accident in a textile factory that works for western companies and dozens of unprotected workers die. but in bangladesh, one of the poorest countries in the world, there are more things that deserve our attention, even if they don't affect our business interests. in more than half of all marriages in bangladesh, a country of 150 million people, the bride is a girl, a minor. until a few months ago, the law expressly forbade a girl under eighteen to marry. but they just reformed it by introducing an exceptional loophole to the norm. what's the point? so that girls who get pregnant can marry their future father, that is, their abuser. this was confirmed to me recently at the united nations by the minister for women and children, mrs meher afroz chumki. there can be no exception to allow child marriage. girls in bangladesh need legal protection and comprehensive sexual and reproductive education. the european union has committed new aid of almost 700 million under its multiannual indicative programme for bangladesh. mrs mogherini, mr mimica, i ask you to be strict here. freeze those funds immediately. we don't fund a government that opens back doors to child marriages.
madam president, prime minister orbán, if hungary comes again and again to the attention of this parliament, it is not because its great country is a victim of the imaginary tanks of the delusional european soviet union. i'm not sure. this parliament represents ten million hungarians too. and this parliament is the parliament of the european union, which your country joined in 2004, and of the treaty of lisbon, whose values are threatened by the harassment of the opposition, the restriction of information pluralism and freedom of information, the attack on judicial independence and, of course, the restriction of the fundamental rights of all people, including foreigners and immigrants whom you so despise. the commission must activate article 7 to defend the principles, without fear or calculation, because many of us here will support with our vote the action against the 'putinization' of the hungarian government.
in writing. the hungarian government's decision to close the respected central european university is the latest in a long series of violations of eu values. this parliament represents ten million hungarians too. and this parliament is the parliament of the european union, which your country joined in 2004, and of the treaty of lisbon, whose values are threatened by the harassment of the opposition, the restriction of information pluralism and freedom of information, the attack on judicial independence and, of course, the restriction of the fundamental rights of all people, including foreigners and immigrants whom you so despise. the commission must activate article 7 to defend the principles, without fear or calculation, because many of us here will support with our vote action against the illiberal and anti-democratic drift of the hungarian government.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the decision adopted on the european pillar of social rights and the initiative on work-life balance [2016/3020 (rsp) ].
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, the eu is not a market or a currency, those are instruments. it is not just about consumers who consume, it is about citizens, real people, who are trying to make a living, getting their kids through school, struggling for a better future. europe has a role in protecting and strengthening the rights of all our people, and we are not a day too late in doing so. in the wake of the white paper on the future of europe, the first reflection paper on the social dimension has now been published, setting out scenarios on what choices we could make together. we are also here today to speak about the pillar of social rights and the principles that we believe are important to help member states to reform and together converge upwards. valdis dombrovskis will give a detailed presentation on both the reflection paper and the pillar, and marianne thyssen will conclude the debate on behalf of the commission. for now, let me focus on one of the initiatives we are bringing forward to put the principles of the pillar into action. it is a joint proposal by marianne thyssen and věra jourová that i wish to attach great importance to and of which i am frankly very proud. the commission today adopted an ambitious new initiative to support the work-life balance of parents and carers. with this package of legislative and non-legislative action, we want to increase women’s participation and representation in the labour market and ensure they are not obliged anymore to choose between a family or a professional career. and this is not just about women, it is about men as well. existing policies have not brought equal opportunities that allow fathers and mothers to work in care together for the welfare of their children, elders and society at large. today, the employment gap between men and women is more than 11%, and in full-time equivalent it goes above 18%, because part-time workers are mainly women. when families have young children, the gap widens hugely. women also spend five times more time than men on care and household activities. this explains partly the pay gap of 16% and the pension gap of 40%, which increases women’s exposure to poverty and economic dependence. the main drivers of the problem relate to parenthood, the unequal share of care responsibilities, the shortage of childcare and long-term care facilities and financial disincentives in tax benefit systems for the second earner. the economic loss due to the gender employment gap is estimated to be around eur 370 billion per year. in the context of demographic aging, we cannot afford to leave this huge talent untapped. this is a social and an economic imperative and of course, above all, a moral imperative. our proposal, once adopted, will repeal the parental leave directive to replace it by a directive on work-life balance for parents and carers. we propose maintaining the existing four months’ parental leave entitlement for each parent, but paid at sick pay level and non-transferable. we introduce a paternity leave of 10 days and care leave of five days per year and per dependent relative, also paid at sick pay level, and we also extend and modernise the use of flexible work arrangements. at the same time, we will promote the provision of affordable and quality formal care services across the union, including by optimising the use of available eu financial support. we will ensure better implementation and effective enforcement of the protection against dismissal, provide guidance to member states and monitor the development of their work-life balance policies. honourable members, we must stop wasting all that female talent and give fathers a real chance to be with their children as well. we are in times when we see around us a so-called cultural counter-revolution emerging, throwing us back into the past, often to the detriment of women. i am more than convinced that we need this package now. i do not want my daughters to be in the same situation as my grandmothers were. europe is not telling anyone how to live. there is not one right balance, but i do not accept that our daughters have to fight again the battle that their grandmothers won. work-life balance is about a real choice for fathers and mothers on how to organise their lives. this is our message: it is great to be a mum, it is cool to be a dad, and it is fantastic to be able to combine both roles with a carer.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today the commission adopted its first reflection paper as part of five contributions announced in the commission’s white paper on the broader debate on the future of europe. it is fitting that the first reflection paper covers the social dimension as that is something that is close to the heart of every citizen. since the adoption of the treaty of rome, the european social dimension has been the founding principle of european integration. it should bring social progress and real benefits for people and has been the cornerstone of the european union’s success. our aim today is no different. we have come a long way in 60 years. we should be proud that our social model is a success. europe is home to the most equal societies in the world. the reflection paper provides an overview of the social realities in europe and the challenges awaiting us. digitalisation, globalisation and demographic transformation are already making their impact felt and will only deepen with time. new working patterns, often based on freelance or self—employment, increasingly also in the collaborative economy and online platforms, all add to the need to revisit our social acquis. the rome declaration emphasises the need for a social europe, based on sustainable growth which promotes economic and social progress, as well as cohesion and convergence. it is time to look ahead at what kind of social europe we want, what kind of future we want for ourselves, for our children and, more importantly, how we want to achieve this. who will be taking what responsibility? we propose to look at three options: limiting the social dimension to free movement only, progress in the field of the coalition of the willing member states – which could be the euro area, but also another grouping of countries – and deepening the social dimension of europe together with all 27 member states. all these options are feasible within current treaties and of course mix-and-match is possible. the scope of the reflection paper is to present a wide approach to social issues. it does not reflect the commission’s preferred option at this point. we look forward to continuing this debate with you and other stakeholders in the coming months. but today’s package is not only about reflection. today we have presented a european pillar of social rights. this proves that social europe is not a purely theoretical principle, but an evolving reality on the ground. by delivering on the promise to reinforce the social dimension of the european union, we are making a difference in the lives of our citizens. the essence of our proposal is the following: investing in people is investing in their future as well as in our economy. the social dimension is needed to create a resilient economy and sustainable growth, and to strengthen our competitiveness. with our initial european pillar of social rights we set out to do just that. more than a year ago we presented the first outline of the european pillar of social rights and, in the course of far—reaching consultations, we listened and took on board the suggestions expressed by governments, national parliaments, stakeholders, social partners and citizens across europe. all in all, we had more than 16 000 replies. in particular, i would like to thank you for your far—reaching report last january. today these contributions are crystallised in our proposal with 20 principles and rights. the central objective remains that the pillar should be a reference framework to drive the process of reforms at national level. more specifically, it will serve as a compass for a new renewal process of both economic and social upward convergence. as was announced from the start, the pillar is primarily conceived for the euro area, but is open to all eu member states. indeed we are proposing to adopt it through a joint proclamation with the parliament and the council as eu institutions and we hope that all member states will be part of it. the pillar is essentially a joint endeavour. those of you with long memories will remember that the charter of fundamental rights of the eu was adopted in 2000 via an interinstitutional proclamation by the parliament, council and commission. we aim to reach a political endorsement at the highest level of this proclamation in the second half of this year. the first vice-president has already elaborated on one of the specific initiatives accompanying the social pillar, but we are bringing forward three other accompanying initiatives to put the principle into action. the commission is responding to your request for a framework directive on decent working conditions in all forms of employment by consulting social partners on two possible initiatives. firstly, on ways to better align our social security system with the new forms of work. we want to ensure that as many people as possible, including the self-employed and gig economy workers, are covered and can build up rights against their social contributions. secondly, by modernising eu rules on what needs to be spelt out in a job contract through the revision of the written statement directive. more specifically, we want to ensure clarity for workers and employers on their contractual relationship irrespective of the type of contract. for both initiatives we would like to give social partners the possibility to look for mutually acceptable solutions before considering any legislative steps. lastly, we are issuing guidelines to help provide national legislators and employers with a clearer picture on what counts as working time, what happens to untaken paid annual leave with the interpretative communication of the working time directive. we are also responding to your request to ensure better monitoring by issuing a social scoreboard. this will expand the existing scoreboard of key economic and social indicators used in the european semester to better take into account social considerations. it will also help us show progress towards a triple-a social europe. our proposals pave the way for a balanced project that allows all of us –citizens, politicians, entrepreneurs and businesses – to reap the benefits of today’s modern reality. let me be clear, however: our aim is not to legislate on every aspect of the pillar. the red thread running through the pillar is subsidiarity. eu institutions, social partners and all levels of government have joint competence and joint responsibility to make sure competitiveness and social progress go hand in hand. i count on your support to make the european pillar of social rights a reality.
on behalf of the alde group. mr. president, i hope you won't take advantage of the fact that we are compatriots to cut me off before the others. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i will continue in the language of cervantes. it is a joy that the starting point for building a greater and better europe has been chosen to be social europe. if you're telling me this is a coincidence, then it better be a coincidence. it is very important that we now understand that we must once again have a critical mass of citizens who believe in the european project as a project that will serve the citizens - because we are in a time of crisis, no one escapes - and obviously work on social issues: europeanization of social issues is fundamental. and that is why we are here, to study together the creation of a pillar of social rights. in other words, it is essential to know what it means to be european in terms of social rights, with those 20 questions which the commission is putting on the table when we are working towards an interinstitutional agreement. let us define a key aspect of european citizenship. then other things are said, such as respect for subsidiarity. this will of course be the case when the rights are put into practice, which will be universal and above states, regions and whatever. which is why we're building a partnership. solidarity must also be called for. they say very rightly here: all this costs money. yeah, and have a common defense, too. and have a common currency, too. and by the same token, solidarity, the distribution of short-term funds or not, will be necessary to build a social europe and to ensure that everyone enjoys what is the minimum required for one of the most prosperous areas of the world; and for this i must propose, from the point of view of the alde group, three more objectives, and that is all. let us not forget to be effective immediately against poverty. that it is intolerable that it exists in europe. all the great poverty. secondly, let us always support mobility as a fundamental right of workers. and thirdly, social policy is much more than employment, since in my country, for example, employment is so important. social policy is about being able to have a decent education, a decent housing. and all that, which costs money, is done much better when we are all united, and that is why we will work with the commission on the most integrated of the three scenarios.
in view of the fact that we are a little late, we will be able to accept only one 'blue card' question per speaker. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. therefore, it will not be accepted.
mr president, there is no doubt that the social dimension must be on the same level as the economic or monetary dimension. the future of the union is at stake and that is why we must ethically strengthen citizenship. this community framework for social and employment policy is of the utmost importance in creating a strong european project targeting the vulnerable sectors. the principle of equality, the principle of non-discrimination, equality between men and women, the integration of disabled people into all sectors of society, active support for employment for disabled people and support for their families must be upheld. as i said, we must fight against discrimination against all groups that suffer exclusion, such as lgbt people and others. we must also negotiate fair working conditions, with social protection and fair pensions. there is no one-size-fits-all model, but there are principles that bind all member states together. the principle of the union is at stake and that is why i support the commissioner and the commissioners in their efforts to regulate this social and political framework, this european social pillar. it's a need, it's an opportunity.
interventions under the incidental request procedure for the use of the word 'catch the eye' there are many requests for the floor, so we will limit ourselves to one speech by each of the political groups. in addition, there are those who have also requested to take part in this round, but who have already done so through the 'blue card', which is why a limitation based on this criterion will have to be imposed.
i think it is good news, mr president, that the commission is committed to including the initiative on work-life balance in the social pillar. mr timmermans has spoken about the proposal for equal paternity and maternity leave, four months for each parent, and that could be great news. however, he did not mention what i consider to be the key point in this matter: are we talking about individual licences, that is, non-transferable, compulsory and remunerated licences? or are we talking about maintaining transferability and non-mandatory permits? because it is precisely the transferability between parents that causes more than 90% of leave to be taken by women with a double perverse effect: to perpetuate the burden of care falling on women. perpetuate discrimination in the labour market. the outdated maternity and parental leave directives need to be reformed and merged into one. but let's keep in mind the key here: permissions have to be individual so that we don't keep making the mistake that got us into this situation.
mr president, commissioner, i have to tell you that we are disappointed with the proposal for a social pillar. it was not what we expected, and i think there is too great a gap between the ambition they put into communicating it and the reality, afterwards, of what they have presented. there is very little ambition in social protection, virtually nothing in wages or working conditions. i don't think this is the social agenda we were hoping for. i must also say that i have the impression that you are already giving in to the council before you have even tabled the proposal. this proposal stirs up fear that the council will leave, that the council will not approve. and you're self-limiting before you even have a debate. i'm not sure. make an ambitious proposal and put the responsibility on the council to say no. it's what we would expect, and if they did that, they'd have us on their side. and also, as regards the specific proposal on maternity and paternity leave, i have to say that in some respects we are satisfied with the proposal, but in others it falls far short. for example, if we take paternity leave, practically what they propose already exists in most member states. so it's not a significant breakthrough. be more ambitious - i think that's what people are asking you to do - and don't be afraid to take the fight to the council. if they do, we'll be on their side.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. strengthening social europe is the best tool we have to prevent populism and euroscepticism. but the package of measures to create a european pillar of social rights presented today by the commission is not ambitious enough. we spanish socialists are deeply disappointed by this declaration of good intentions without binding objectives which will not help to end precariousness, raise wages or improve social protection in the member states. of all the measures presented today, the only binding ones have been those relating to the reconciliation of family and professional life, something which we very positively value, since we have been calling for them for two years. the proposal includes, among other things, a paid leave of at least four months for fathers and mothers to care for their children, as well as facilities for the care of sick relatives or dependent persons. we will work hard to ensure that these measures are carried out, but also that president juncker keeps his promise and presents real binding proposals such as a fair working conditions directive, a directive on a european minimum wage framework or a determined plan to combat child poverty.
in writing. its social pillar is a document of good intentions that does not go beyond existing european legislation. this parliament called for the ratification of the revised european social charter by the member states and the possible accession of the eu itself, as a means of establishing a social pillar worthy of the name. on the contrary, its proposal merely puts a make-up on the troika's policies in the euro area and its frontal attack on social rights and collective bargaining. it does not even include any firm proposal on social dumping, a proposal for a minimum income directive, a boost to european social dialogue, eu accession to the echr (despite being provided for in the treaties...). in the end, the only legislative proposal announced today is the extension of parental leave, something we are of course defending against the european employers, without forgetting that it was the commission itself which eliminated the proposal to extend maternity leave. but europeans have voiced, vote after vote, their strong criticism of the neoliberalism that permeates european policies. it is time for a change of course that cannot be delayed any longer.
madam president, turkey is in a worrying situation: a polarized and divided society, the extension of the state of emergency following the attempted coup d'état and also, madam president, a seizure of power, as the commissioner has reminded us, which is very worrying from the point of view of the venice commission as well. i think that in this context the high representative and the european union have reacted in a balanced way by taking note of the results and, as mr kamall said, we have to combine this situation with the fact that we have a major migration agreement worth eur 6 billion and with the fact that turkey is a member of the atlantic alliance and of course also an important player for regional security. i believe, madam president, that we have witnessed a very rapid deterioration in relations with turkey and therefore, commissioner, we must follow very closely the developments in the situation in the country and the president's intentions to review relations with us, as well as the announced consultation on the reintroduction of the death penalty.
madam president, i actually belong to a political group, the socialist group, which has always offered turkey a path to accession to the european union. we have been strong advocates of a turkey within europe. and that is why it is more difficult for me to express, at this moment, the sorrow and indignation that erdogan is insisting on closing this door between turkey and europe. for many years in this house, the right has opposed turkey's accession to the european union in various ways and we have defended its accession. but erdogan has gone too far, no doubt. and now it's very difficult to defend the same thing we used to defend. however, i resist closing the door completely. because, as my colleagues have said, there are 49% of turks and turkish women who, despite the difficulties and an almost impossible campaign, have said 'no' to erdogan, to a constitutional change which is not a constitutional change, it is practically a change of political paradigm in the country. so i want to keep both doors open. on the one hand, the clear message to erdogan that he cannot continue down this path. and on the other hand, to the 49% of the turkish people who have said no to erdogan, because we are here to continue to offer them a possibility in the future of accession to the european union.
madam president, what we are facing, what we are valuing, is not just constitutional reform in turkey: it is the transformation of the country's own identity, of the nature of the state. and to do so through a very small majority -- very small -- of 51 percent, in a polarized country and after an unbalanced campaign. we must make it clear to the turkish government that this path, the path it is taking, is taking it away from accession to the european union. and it is not only driving them away, but it is making it impossible for them to go the way they want to go, because democratic standards are far from those demanded by the european union. what can we do about it? we must continue the political dialogue in whatever form it takes, if not through the accession process, through other political dialogue tables, and use the great tool we have, which is the renewal of the customs union, to be able to talk politically with turkey and bring it closer to our standards while supporting the turkish people.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased to be here today ahead of the vote on the structural reform support programme. it will allow for providing technical support to member states, upon their request, for the implementation of reforms. these reforms – to modernise economies, strengthen competitiveness, encourage investment, generate jobs and raise living standards – are crucial for cohesion and upward convergence. such reforms work. we have seen how the countries that embarked on an ambitious reform path, such as ireland, spain, the baltic countries and portugal, have been able to catch up remarkably ever since and return to growth and job creation. this means less poverty and less social exclusion. yet, in general, the implementation of structural reforms is not satisfactory. our assessment shows that member states have made only between ‘limited’ and ‘some’ progress on last year’s country-specific recommendations. the overall record since the inception of the european semester in 2011 points to differences in the pace and depth of reforms. we all know that reforms demand political courage. they may impinge on powerful vested interests. their technical complexity is often a barrier, while others may imply budgetary costs. some countries face challenges in terms of institutional and administrative capacity. it is not enough to legislate, the reforms need to be implemented in a timely and efficient manner. this is where the structural reform support programme can make a real difference. in 2016, technical support provided by the commission’s structural reform support service was requested by six member states: bulgaria, croatia, the czech republic, romania, slovakia and slovenia. we have been able to assist governments with their public finance management, implementation of administrative, judiciary and health-care reforms, development of capital markets and access to finance. in parallel, the structural reform support service has continued to coordinate comprehensive support for the greek administration. for example, with the help of technical assistance, in february greece started to roll out the guaranteed minimum income scheme nationally. this represents a fundamental change of the social welfare system to provide protection to those who have been left outside any safety net. based on feedback received and numerous expressions of interest, such support is clearly deemed useful, even necessary. but this support cannot and will not replace the role of the authorities, which remain responsible for the reforms, their design and successful implementation. i am happy that thanks to very constructive interinstitutional cooperation, we have succeeded rapidly in accommodating our concerns. i wish to thank the european parliament, in particular the committee on regional development (regi) and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and all other committees involved for their valuable contributions. i would also like to thank the co-rapporteurs, mr van nistelrooij and ms krehl, for their dedicated work, and the regi chair, ms mihaylova, for her constructive and open approach during the trilogues. together with the outstanding work done by the dutch, the slovak and the maltese presidencies, we have an improved text that awaits your vote. the key features of the programme are as follows. it will have a budget of eur 142.8 million for years 2017-2020. the scope of its actions is broad in order to enable to support whatever needs are pertinent in member states. but at the same time, cohesion policy elements are clearly emphasised. the support is to be provided on the request of the member state. it is to be tailor-made and adapted to the country-specific needs and effected in full cooperation with the government involved. we support the involvement of the social partners and civil society in the preparation and implementation of reforms. their support is a key success factor. such involvement should take place in accordance with the legal set-up of each member state and in compliance with their institutional framework. while underlining the spirit of cooperation and partnership, the administrative procedures remain light, so as to enable delivery of support as swiftly as possible, but always in full respect of the financial regulation. we are fully committed to ensuring proper monitoring and evaluation. transparency is crucial to all of us. therefore, we will transmit to parliament without delay the cooperation and support plans agreed with the member states, and in line with the conditions set out in the regulation. we will also provide information on the annual work programme, annual monitoring report and independent interim and ex-post evaluation reports. i am confident that the programme will be a positive instrument to make our economies more resilient. i also believe that the support provided under the new programme would substantially contribute to the cohesion of the european regions, as strongly advocated by the european parliament. i count on your support – both now and throughout the implementation of the programme – to make it a success.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the challenge of this legislature is to bring europe closer to the citizen and to achieve this, it is key to regionalise european policy, to listen more to those who live in our towns and cities. and as we move in the right direction, we see that this report certainly fits that. the definition of national authority involves the municipalities and regions in the european process, because municipalities and regions are the points of access to the resources that the european union makes available to citizens. and we have taken another successful step by making even clearer what the mission of structural programmes is and should always be. this mission is to make economic, social and territorial cohesion a reality, and it is also to bridge gaps, build bridges and bring wills together. in rome we are committed to the european social pillar. a pillar that needs a real european social agenda, an agenda that translates into more and better jobs for all citizens and more and better growth for all regions; an agenda, in short, that reflects that europe which it protects and which is none other than our european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. what i have said, and i still say, is that european policy must be regionalised. and to regionalise european policy, there are no better actors than the governments of the regions and the governments of the municipalities, of the town halls. this is the idea, because they know better than anyone else perfectly how to optimize those resources, where to spend that money, when to spend it and how to do it. and this is coming from someone who has been president of a region, that of murcia, for 20 years.
mr president, commissioner, the european cultural heritage is one of our greatest assets, ranging from museums to customs and traditions to natural landscapes. but cultural heritage is not just monuments and works of art; it is also intangible and intangible goods. among them is europe's gastronomic heritage. of a wealth without equal. a legacy that has been passed down through generations of families. sadly, the hustle and bustle of modern life can put it at risk; and it should be the school that takes over. our gastronomy is a source of cultural, artistic, tourist and economic wealth and represents more than 300 000 direct jobs and 7 million indirect jobs. i would not like to forget another essential element of our intangible heritage: traditional european sports. many of them do not belong to the federal sphere. they don't earn medals for their practice, but they are part of our cultural richness. we must know them and support them so that they are not lost in the next generations.
in writing. cultural heritage, in addition to being a symbol of identity and of the historical heritage of the different european peoples, is an element that contributes both directly and indirectly to the economic growth and social development of the various european localities and regions. the conservation and restoration of the material cultural heritage, especially in rural and sparsely populated areas, will help to promote sustainable tourism, create jobs and prevent the deterioration and neglect of not only these historic assets, but also the towns and regions in which they are located. to ensure the success of the process, attention must be paid to training and specialisation of workers and to the recognition at national and european level of the various restoration and conservation techniques, which must be adapted to the specific characteristics of the work in question, from the type of materials used to the reasons for its deterioration.
the rapporteur. mr president yes, i too would like to welcome commissioner oettinger, who will be attending his first discharge procedure, and i would like to thank in particular the president of the court of auditors, mr lehne, for his presence. i also want to thank mr lazarou, the 'guardian' of the das, and of course also mr borg, the maltese presidency. first, it is not new to highlight the significant influence that european agencies have both in policy-making and decision-making and in programme implementation. and that, more and more. they are important for issues as important to citizens and institutions as health, the environment, human and social rights, migration and refugees, innovation, financial supervision, security and protection. so much diversity and, at the same time, so much responsibility. and, in fact, because of this impact on daily life, it is also appropriate to demand their autonomy and independence, precisely to protect their judgment and the credibility of all of them. all of them receive funding of different types, since there are many - more than thirty, hence their diversity. we have seen that in the last year there has been a slight increase - or a more significant increase, depending on the point of view - but that this increase, and above all, as regards their employees, is reflected above all in the agencies dealing with migration and the prevention of serious crime and terrorism, which were especially priorities of the union in 2015. and we also find that, according to the court's summary of all its audits, all of them have passed without any reservations, except in the case of frontex and the european institute of innovation and technology, but that later, in the fruitful dialogue with the court of auditors, the commission and the agencies, we were able to resolve all the doubts and problems, so that at this moment we can be in a position to clearly propose the approval of the management of all of them. i believe that in this dialogue the fundamental role of the network of agencies, which was created as an autonomous element and is increasingly being strengthened, must be emphasized. we should now - and i think this is a legitimate demand - beef up their staff, because it is precisely the activity of this coordination - a coordinating, moreover, accredited and strengthened - of the agencies that has also produced very good results and some products and instruments of bilateral and network cooperation that have greatly facilitated our work and solved many of the problems. there are also some issues that need to be improved, of course. and there remains my request, also, both to commissioner oettinger and to mr lehne, as regards the solution we should give to the continuous extensions of commitment appropriations that are taking place, which even in 2015 have increased somewhat, and which are increasingly, and i believe that, with the help of the court of auditors - mr lehne tells me that yes, and i thank him very much - we could come to a solution, so that they do not all appear the same, but those that are planned, in an easier way, and those that are not, then yes, absolutely, audit. on the other hand, we also have the problem of audits. mr lehne, i am prepared to increase the resources of the court of auditors to the extent necessary to ensure that these audits remain public and that the court of auditors remains the guarantor of them. i think that would be progress. we also have some problems with renewed or doubled staff reductions - 5% + 5% - which could undermine the need for the agencies to get to the bottom of their mandates and their actions, so we are rather cautious there. and we have also carried out a first indication in relation to the impact of brexit on some of the agencies that are precisely in the uk and that we need to be able to clarify. and finally, there is a grouping proposal - i thank my colleagues who have supported me so far - which i would like to see developed more successfully in the future.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to end by referring to the paragraphs that were adopted in the committee on budgetary control in the vote on parliament's management by 15 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. that is to say, 15 members were in favour and 14 had either some reservations or were certainly against. i would also like to mention the unfortunate fact that the motivation is purely political, when historically and traditionally the committee on budgetary control has a tendency to have institutional respect for the electoral procedures of the member states. in fact, we do not travel, we do not go on missions, precisely in scrupulous respect of that situation. despite this, in 2014, despite the fact that president martin schulz had been in office for two years, precisely that year, in which he became spitzenkandidat of the socialists, he was attacked for the first time. not before. that year. and by whom, exactly? by his german colleagues from the epp. last year we went back to the drawing board. but last year we were finally able to negotiate, precisely after both the president, martin schulz, and the secretary-general, on behalf of the administration, had given us answers to all the questions that had been raised in the previous questionnaire. and i regret that in paragraph 38 of this text of the resolution the democratic procedure, which was won by 480 votes in favour and 190 against, is deplored. i think that democracy, of course, must be recognized and, if possible, put back together as it was, the truth. and this year it is painful to see that, once again, and in this case we are talking about a completely legitimate procedure in a country such as germany, a candidate for german chancellor is being attacked from this house with half-truths or rather half-lies to the point that we have the national front supporting him more and more. i would certainly be concerned if i were the author of such texts or the author of such texts, because it has even gone so far that in some cases it has been intended that some majority group should support these texts of the national front attacking president schulz, we all know for what reasons. it is of course very sad for me that this house is being used for such reasons.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this report on the regime for the fishing fleet in the outermost regions is one of those extraordinary occasions to go from words to deeds and to call for coherence, empathy and understanding from the organisations which traditionally and wrongly associate any fishing activity with the attack on marine ecosystems. i believe that the first to be concerned about the sustainability of fishing activities are the fishermen themselves. i have seen this in the canary islands, for example, when i listened to the leaders of the associations and the professionals who spoke with love and respect for the sea and its life. i therefore wholeheartedly support their right to receive intensive european aid to renew their fleets. we are talking about improving their safety and working conditions in an environment that needs more and better employment. we are talking about operating more energy-efficient, less polluting and more modern ships, which will certainly make it easier to control their activity. we do not therefore intend to increase fishing capacity. fleet upgrading is not done at the expense of the balance between extractive activity and conservation. finally, i would like to stress and encourage a serious study of the impact of recreational fishing in these areas, a persistent demand of the sector, especially where tourism is growing the most. the fishermen want and have a right to more information and control over these recreational activities which, because of their current size and growth, put pressure on fish stocks.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the overseas fishing fleet is ageing; the average age of the boats is between 30 and 40 years. therefore, for safety reasons, these vessels fish near the coast, where the resource is decreasing, while offshore it is literally being plundered by illegal fishing, which is exploding, particularly in french overseas. it is therefore time for the european union to agree to finance, through the european maritime and fisheries fund and through the member states, the renewal of the small-scale fishing fleet, which it has not allowed since the 1990s in order not to increase fishing capacity. the report by mrs rodust acknowledges, but does not call into question, this prohibition. that is why i will support with my group the amendment allowing this funding. i would remind you that overseas, the unemployment rate for young people is sometimes above 50%, particularly in guyana, and fishing can create many jobs. it is therefore essential to take sensible measures to develop economic activity in these neglected areas, while promoting sustainable fishing.
mr president, commissioners, you can imagine that it is a pleasure for me as a canarian to be debating the report on the management of the fishing fleets in the ors. in it we call for a single instrument dedicated to supporting fisheries in these regions: a posei programme for fisheries. i would also like to see better exploitation of the potential of aquaculture in these regions and, of course, better incentives to encourage young people to work in the fisheries sector and, of course, always taking into account the specific characteristics of the ors. but we are missing something: the possibility of allowing, under very strict conditions, really strict conditions, and in line with the objective of sustainable fishing, financing for the renewal of the artisanal and traditional fishing vessels of the ors. it's not true what's being said. there is no longer any fishing. it is about fishermen from the outermost regions being able to go fishing where others go, who also fish the seas. it's not about protecting the hundred miles for the local fleet. how can the local fleet go 100 miles with obsolete ships over 20 years old, without safety conditions, without hygienic conditions, without insurance because the insurance companies themselves do not insure that fleet? it doesn't make any sense. we are not talking about opening the field to giving more money to renew fleets without any kind of limit. we are talking about renewing, with all the limitations, the artisanal fleets of the outermost regions, which will also land in those regions. i advise you to read the amendment, to stop making demagoguery, to stop using the organizations as you are using them to go against the fishermen of the outermost regions. please read the amendment and you will see that what you are saying is absolutely untrue.
mr president, i am speaking in support of the work of our rapporteur, ulrike rodust, but also as a canarian, born and resident in an outermost region. because the outermost regions are the only ones mentioned by name in the primary law of the european union, in article 349 tfeu, which allows arbitration of individual exceptions in both primary and secondary law. and this is exactly what needs to be done to protect traditional and artisanal fishing in the canary islands, to enable the commission to allocate special aid for the renewal of an obsolete fleet, to improve its conditions not only in terms of hygiene and safety but also in terms of environmental efficiency, to do without more polluting fuels and thus to give a future opportunity to a fishery which will not increase fishing capacity, much less the loss of species, but which will, on the contrary, give a future horizon to a fishery made with great dedication, made with great passion, by people of flesh and blood, making a better europe where it is needed most: in the less favoured regions, in the most remote regions, in the outermost regions.
the rapporteur. mr president, this week marks the fourth anniversary of one of the greatest industrial crimes in history: the collapse of the rana plaza building in bangladesh, where clothing for european firms was being produced in bulk. it claimed the lives of over 1,100 people and injured over 2,500. the difficulty of establishing legal liability for this crime has made it clear that production chains as complex as the textile industry require control rules to be in accordance with it. but it also raised awareness about the origin of the clothes we wear: people don't want to continue to wear clothes at the expense of enslaving others. and what is being done by the european union to ensure the dignity of women workers in the textile sector? it is true that initiatives have been launched by public and private actors to try to respond to public pressure; but they are all voluntary, many of them are simple image washings that have not prevented exploitation from continuing in the factories. in addition, many of these initiatives overlap and do not cover the entire supply chain. so the problem remains, and that is deregulation. in 2015, the european commission promised an initiative on the sustainability of the sector at global level, which it also called a 'flagship'. two years later, you can say that they have done practically nothing, because the working document, which they just happen to present this week, is not going to stop the abuses. seventy-five million people live their particular rana plaza every day around the world: it is urgent that we step up. this report seeks to put an end to this situation, which is invisible in the western world but which consumers unwittingly exploit every time they dress. the most important aspects of the report are, firstly, the working conditions and social standards under which our clothes are produced, because they are all too often abusive, exploitative, without collective rights or even using child labour. endless working hours, sometimes as long as 24 hours; unattainable production targets, such as sewing a t-shirt a minute; constant sexual harassment as a weapon against female workers; facilities that would scare us with their hygiene and safety conditions, and a long etcetera that forces us to get down to work. the second dimension relates to transparency and traceability. the textile chain is especially complex, as demonstrated by the impossibility of establishing legal responsibilities after the rana plaza. we can find a shirt made of cotton collected by children in uzbekistan, dyed in morocco, made in sri lanka and with buttons sewn by exploited women in honduras. this industrial model makes traceability of each garment especially complicated. clear and specific criteria are therefore needed to ensure effective transparency. we have a right to know what we're wearing. finally, there is the regulatory dimension. if we have learned anything in recent years, it is that voluntary initiatives do not work. our societies are based on a social contract. a universal and unwaivable contract by which we organize and regulate our relations with our fellow men. voluntarism is legitimate when it comes to choosing our friends or cutting our hair, but it is not legitimate when it comes to the fundamental rights of people and their dignity. so it's imperative that we renew the basis of our contract, that of our companies, with the people who make our clothes. tomorrow, with the adoption of this report, this parliament will be giving a firm and clear mandate to the commission. we demand that he propose binding legislation on due diligence obligations, which protects the human rights of those working in the entire chain of this sector. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur-designates from all the groups and, in particular, arne lietz for his work and support in getting this report through. and i don't want to forget to name tamara, kasia, joana, carlos, jorge and jacob, because without them this success would not have been possible.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr commissioner, it has just been four years since the rana plaza building collapsed in bangladesh: more than a thousand people died making the clothes we wear every day. we all like to buy cheap, pretty clothes. the problem is, what's cheap for us costs others their lives. for 20 years voluntary guidelines have been developed to improve the situation in the sector, the clothing sector, and they have not worked. the situation of millions of workers remains undignified. we need binding requirements for all european companies and third countries. only binding, legally binding rules can ensure that all companies multinational companies also guarantee the protection of human rights, in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights. and only mandatory regulation will ensure that those companies that do respect the human rights of their workers do not have a competitive disadvantage over those that do not. our job is to reward companies that behave in accordance with the standards that the european union has committed itself to uphold. i would like to say something to the members of the ppe and tory groups who oppose this report: pope francis compared the working conditions of the victims of bangladesh to slavery. and slavery was not abolished by voluntary measures. it was simply forbidden. let's hear pope francis on this.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her great work on this report. we are talking about a sector, the clothing industry, where millions of women workers - a highly feminized sector - are victims of the greed and exploitation of the multinational textile companies. it is these companies, the big brands that you see in all the tv commercials, that are the real culprits of the terrible degradation of wages and working conditions in developing countries, which are forced to compete with each other to survive in the global chain. the european union must use the legal instruments already at its disposal to oblige - and i say, oblige - producers to ensure compliance with basic labour standards such as the right to freedom of association, collective bargaining, safety at work or the prohibition of child labour. but it must go further and impose legal rules to ensure the traceability and transparency of products and to allow companies to be sanctioned for producing or subcontracting to other companies which themselves infringe labour rights.
the rapporteur. mr president, i will only give mr caspary a historical note, and that is that you may not know how far back in time you have to go to find a tragedy of the same calibre as that of rana plaza, but on european soil. well, it's the year 1906. one hundred and eleven years ago. and do you know what led to that catastrophe? it's called the "courières disaster" in a mine in northern france, very close to here. this led the french government to develop and implement the workers' statute and to create a ministry of labour and workers. these misfortunes, coupled with popular pressure, are what get it legislated. without legislation, slavery is not abolished. and now, i'm going to make my statement. because i was in sri lanka a week ago. there i met many people, but among them i met mahida. mahida is eighteen. he gets up in his village at five in the morning to get to the factory where he spends at least nine hours on his feet, working without rest. she works for a well-known european lingerie brand. he works twenty-seven days a month. he's given 30 minutes a day to eat and go to the bathroom. they made him sign a contract pledging not to join a union. if you try, you'll be fired, with no right to compensation. each day it must reach a production target which, moreover, is constantly increasing. as she is reaching for her waist, her boss threatens to follow her home if she does not achieve those goals. he gets 80 euros a month, which is not even close to the minimum. he's poor and he'll stay poor no matter how hard he works. if you want to collect more, you'll have to spend twelve, fifteen, seventeen hours a day standing, sewing endlessly, and you'll arrive at your locked house at night with broken fingers. no labor inspector will ever go to your factory. i dare not tell you that with two or three garments of the hundreds he produces a day his salary is already paid, because i am ashamed. but i assure you, i assure mahida that in europe, more and more of us are people who care about her and that we are not willing to allow some to dress us, and who also enrich themselves, with the invisible slavery of others, especially women like mahida, who live poorly so that we can go fashion. i think the commission has a very clear message. it must urgently present a legislative initiative on binding due diligence rules, so that cases like mahida's, like rana plaza's, like all the individual rana plaza's that these people live every day, never happen again.
mr president, the hoarding and concentration of agricultural land is a very serious problem in the european union, which makes it difficult for young people and landless people to settle and also prevents the rescaling of smaller farms. the causes are many: speculation, expropriation for large infrastructure projects, mining, forestry, criteria for aid from the cap... in short, we find the commission and the council looking the other way while governments allow these situations and give priority to non-agricultural land uses. i hope that the commission will take note of this important resolution and ensure the protection of agricultural land by measures which preserve and give priority to its social function of producing food and by mechanisms to put an end to hoarding and concentration and to guarantee access to land for young people, women, small farms and anyone who wants to set up in agriculture.
mr president, i regret that this debate on access to land is taking place at midnight, because it is a fundamental issue for european agricultural policy. in my country, spain, we are also suffering from the abandonment of many agricultural parcels which are too small and fragmented to be efficient, while in other regions, mainly in the south, the land is concentrated in the hands of a few landowners who exploit the day labourers and enrich themselves with the cap. that is why i am grateful to the rapporteur for recognising in her report the great importance of public planning policies, including land banks and public credit, and the need to combat the concentration of agricultural property. let us not forget that the land must belong to those who work it and that a living agriculture, a living countryside, requires the maintenance of the fabric of small farmers' property.
mr president, i have to say... we are remembering today the 80th anniversary of the bombing of guernica, and we are demanding the right to truth, justice and reparation for all the victims of that massacre and of the franco dictatorship, because, as the un rapporteur, pablo de greiff, assured us this morning, their suffering is a matter of the present, which stems from the failure to comply with international law, community rules and fundamental rights. this parliament adopted a recipe against oblivion last december: to end impunity and to have the european commission objectively assess the situation of the victims in order to provide them with the reparation they deserve. thousands of europeans are searching in ditches and mass graves for evidence of crimes that are not prescribed by law; evidence that is not investigated by a judicial authority, which is unfamiliar with international practice in this area, an exception in the treatment of historical memory in the european union. the victims of francoism expect answers from our common space of freedom and democracy. that's why we bring here your voice, your plea for empathy. that is why we demand that the commission, in fulfilling the mandate of this house, attend to them.
mr president, according to 2016 figures, eucalyptus covered more than 400 000 hectares in galicia, almost a quarter of the forest area of galicia, and this figure is still growing. this creates serious problems because they degrade the soil, reduce biodiversity, absorb large amounts of water by altering aquifers, and because they are pyrophic plants, they encourage forest fires and bring with them pests and diseases that cause the mass application of plant protection products, including glyphosate, to reduce the burden on the subforest. moreover, their expansion not only causes the disappearance of forest masses of high environmental value, but also invades quality arable agricultural land. it leads to the degradation of the landscape and threatens the integrity and survival of elements of cultural heritage, as demonstrated by the cases of attacks on rock carvings, paleolithic settlements or megalithic monuments. some of these problems have already been denounced by the fao and the council of europe debated a few months ago whether to declare it an invasive species. therefore, we urge the commission to include eucalyptus in the list of invasive alien species of concern under regulation 2016/1141.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, commissioner moscovici, president hoyer, we in the committee on budgets believe that the eib plays a key role in the implementation of an increasing number of financial instruments. it has been shown that the european investment fund is one of our key tools and we hope that the bank, the commission and the member states will continue to work together so that this support can reach all countries and all regions. we also want to stress, as you, president hoyer, and the commissioner have done, the importance of coordinating and complementing all the actions we are undertaking, especially as regards the union's external action: the resilience initiative, the european external investment plan and the review of the eib's external mandate, which we are currently negotiating. but there is one area i would like to stress and that is the need to have a responsible tax policy, which incorporates the requirements of good governance, improves the quality of information for final beneficiaries and excludes transactions with intermediaries with a negative record in transparency, fraud or corruption or who are registered in tax havens. we are convinced that the eib's experience and unique position make it a strategic partner in achieving the union's objectives.
madam president, i have found it difficult to prepare for this debate because parliament's position says one thing and the opposite. they say: "we must avoid the socialization of losses and the privatization of profits". and yet the european investment bank is encouraged to invest in new speculative financial products. they say: 'the european investment bank must respect the charter of fundamental rights in its projects abroad.' and then we want him to strengthen the european migration policy, which aims to turn turkey and libya into prisons for refugees. they say: 'the eib must continue to expand'. but then it turns out that the credit is stagnant and that even the court of auditors doubts that initiatives like the juncker plan have helped to finance any additional investment. i think we are clear about the principles which should govern the eib. however, their reality is different. let us not forget this if we really want to build a public bank that the european union and its citizens need.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr kyrtsos, the rapporteur on the eib report, for his work, because i think he makes two timely recommendations which the eib itself should take into account: to improve the transparency of the institution by asking this parliament to be able to put written questions to the eib itself and, of course, to avoid eib financial activities in tax havens. there is still a lot of ground to cover and it is true that the eib is on the right track, but europe still has a very large investment deficit. and to this very important investment deficit we need a more active, more forceful response from the eib. we need to clearly improve the additionality activities of the juncker plan. we really need a more specific, more direct territorial and sectoral approach, because it is true that projects are being financed in some sectors or in some territories, but we need a somewhat more holistic approach. and we need to make public-private partnerships more efficient. the platforms which allow public sector investment to be deducted within the framework of the stability and growth pact must have greater technical assistance from the eib and, of course, we must take a step forward in this desire to make the eib a genuine development bank concerned primarily, as i say, with activating investment in europe to improve employment, youth employment, and to contribute to all the territories of the union.
madam president, i have to ask you. thank you, mr. hoyer, for being here today. we are all aware of how the levels of investment, both public and private, fell, especially in the peripheral countries during the crisis. you have highlighted it and i reaffirm it as a key element: the financing of smes - 37% of new loans granted - which are also the backbone of our economy. they create 85% of new jobs, and this is therefore essential. in addition, investment in infrastructure, innovative projects, sustainability and, most importantly, employment should also be areas of focus for the eib. and don't forget to promote best practices on tax transparency and effective taxation, ensuring that non-cooperating jurisdictions cannot benefit from the eib investment project. you have referred to the feie. i agree and stress that we must ensure additionality and greater transparency in the selection of projects. i would also like to encourage the eib to work more closely with the national promotional banks.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr. dijsselbloem, look, don't play tricks on us. in your original german you speak of 'northern countries' and 'countries in crisis'. you are pointing south when you make your statements in the original german; and so, look, i tell you one thing: a bad day can happen to anyone, it's okay. but you had it so easy. you were apologizing and that was that. but i don't know if it's because of his arrogance, or, worse, because of political calculation, that he didn't want to do it. and you are unfit, after having said that and not apologising, to continue as president of the eurogroup. but look, that's not my main concern today. i am most interested in the situation in greece, because the worst thing is that you, as president of the eurogroup, have not been able to manage this either. where's the debt renegotiation? we would have expected you to have helped and stood by the european commission when it tried to defend european law in greece against the attack of others and you did not want to do that. nor has he wanted to defend a rational fiscal path. and, look, there's only one conclusion: for your lack of respect for the southern countries and for your terrible management as president of the eurogroup, you only have to resign.
madam president, mr dijsselbloem, we thank you for your opening remarks which were intended to explain your statements in the interview in the german newspaper. we thank them, but it is true that we cannot help but acknowledge that many in this house were deeply disappointed, not only because of the literalness of the words, but because it reflected on that division between north and south, between creditor and debtor countries, which we need to put back together in europe. many of us are working on it, and i know that everyone in this house wants to rebuild the bonds of cohesion between the countries of the european union. and the commission and commissioner moscovici are doing a great job of re-composing and re-directing economic policy with more flexibility, with more room for fiscal policies. we are negotiating this third package with greece, and we need to apply this philosophy of flexibility in the approach to greece. and so, sooner rather than later, the terms of the debt will have to be revised.
madam president, i have to ask you. mr dijsselbloem, thank you for coming to this house after your last unfortunate visit and your even more unfortunate absence from the last sitting. your explanations come late very late and bad very bad. today he says, "that's not what i said". he's lying, and you know it. he did say that, and what he said is unacceptable and disqualifies him for the presidency of the eurogroup. let's talk about greece. the priority of the greek government and the objective of the european union must be that the greek economy regains lost competitiveness and through this growth and job creation. i say publicly that i recommend greece to follow spain's example. that after hard reforms and the efforts of citizens, it has managed to get back on the path of growth and job creation. spain is growing at over 3%, and in the last year it has created over half a million jobs. it is true that spain does not have a populist government like greece. it has a popular government and that's a big difference. mr dijsselbloem, you will now have a new turn to speak. you have another chance, probably your last. apologize to her and announce her resignation.
madam president, i have to ask you. venezuela, gentlemen, is today a tyranny. there's no food, no medicine, but the government is liquidating its last gold reserves, ready to arm half a million militiamen. in pure narcotic style, the chavista regime is executing its own citizens. and yet, the venezuelans are not giving up. you don't give up unarmed women by pushing back armored cars. students don't give up on their fellow shooters. maduro, isolated and branded as a criminal dictator, isolates venezuela by removing it from the organization of american states. maduro belongs to the club of pinochet, videla, fujimori. videla threw his opponents overboard. maduro shoots them in the head. europe, the whole world, we all have to take a stand, because democracy is the only hope left for venezuela. restore constitutional order, release political prisoners and call elections. this is the side that europe takes. gentlemen of podemos and united left: either you are with the unarmed woman who stops the armored car or you are with the one who gives the order to shoot. you choose.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would like to thank mrs pitera for her report, which we again find very interesting. although we have to say that what we are waiting for, and we believe that part of the solution that we are demanding, is going to come from the hand of the european public prosecutor's office. we would like to see, now that 16 member states have proposed enhanced cooperation, whether agreement can be reached as soon as possible on the framework, the legal framework and, above all, the means and capabilities of a european public prosecutor's office as such, which can finally really fight, with all the guarantees but at the same time with all the means, against fraud as such. i would also say that we are in a situation where we are again faced with a multiannual budgetary cycle, with all that the funds' cycles are - including the part of the crisis that has paralysed a large part of that implementation. that is why, as mrs gräßle very well said, the timing, the timing in which the various member states are asserting or announcing, denouncing and warning of their irregularities - whether fraudulent or not fraudulent, which i think the distinction is important to make - has been rather chaotic. and in that sense, i too believe that the commission must make an effort, mrs thyssen, to ensure that the member states' calendars are really harmonized and comparable. on the other hand, we also have a situation in which the principle of name and shame is applied in a contradictory, even a bit schizoid way, because if the figures are very high - as has happened, as has been said - then it follows that we have to criticise the member states because what they have denounced was very high; but if the figures are low, they are also denounced, because they have not denounced. i think it would be very important, mrs thyssen, that at some point the institutions should agree on how to denounce this harmonization and, above all, on who is doing it right or wrong, and not to make a kind of totum revolutum and end up announcing disasters that are not such, because, as you have very well said, progress is being made and what we need is to demonstrate that progress in a credible and clear way. and finally, i would like to ask you something. we are talking here, and it is true, about the irregularities of 80 per cent of the budget, which is the shared budget; but we are also missing evaluations of a part of the budget that is growing exponentially, as is the case with horizon 2020 and even the guarantees of the efsi, and in whose new vericetes we find ourselves with situations of deep concern: for example, the case that has recently resurfaced in spain on the castor project within the scope of the efsi.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and i would like to focus my contributions to this debate on three points, madam commissioner. the first is the need, already expressed by this parliament, for a european anti-corruption code which would make it possible to: create a transparent system of indicators on the extent of corruption in the member states; publish the progress achieved in eradicating it; and present a comparative annual report on the state of the art of this lacra at european level. far from tackling this task, the report complains that the commission has stopped publishing comparative data on this subject. and it has done so not only without informing this house, but without hearing this very specific agreement of the european parliament which is contained in paragraph 148 of the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the union adopted on 8 september 2015. the second is the need to focus the benefits of simplification and the reduction of administrative burdens on users. we know of cases where, after a project has been completed, such as the european employment portal, the project coordinator now sees amounts unduly paid being claimed from one of the consortium partners who, for reasons unrelated to the project, has gone bankrupt. the commission cannot solve its difficulties in interacting with the partner by prejudicing a user and, in this case, the coordinator. finally, it is essential to improve the procedures for exchanging data between member states and to harmonise the criteria for monitoring and reporting possible infringements. the differences between the penetration of corruption in the various states and the irregularities they report are more than enough reason to be sure that there is, in this particular matter, a huge opportunity for improvement.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak to the house on the subject of the european qualifications framework. we are very concerned about this issue for a number of reasons. lifelong learning and the recognition of learning, both formal and informal, are relevant, first, because of the profound changes that are taking place in the labour market, with workers becoming more vulnerable, with more temporary jobs and with very worrying unemployment in some countries of the european union; secondly, because the transformations within the labour market are forcing us to make these changes, especially digitalisation; and thirdly, because we have new risk groups, like people who have come to seek refuge, welcome, to europe, because this is the path that they can take to enter the labour market. it is timely that we should talk about this, it is timely that we should work on it, but there are several issues on the table. firstly, whether we are going to be able to get the member states to comply with the review, because it is true that with the european qualifications framework so far there are several states that have made progress, but not all of them, and not all of them equally. secondly, whether we are going to be able to guarantee access to all groups, including those at risk, in a safe, free and public way. thirdly, whether we will be able to listen to parliament, because there has been no attempt to listen to parliament on this matter so far. and four: if, at the same time, we are going to be, also, aware that it's not all going to be supply policy, about learning, about workers, but also demand policy; and that there are serious, serious macroeconomic problems that also generate unemployment.
the commission's proposal to introduce a european qualifications framework to improve the comparability of training and skills of european workers, especially migrants from another member state or third countries, is a cautious one. this should be a key tool to facilitate the recognition of the skills of workers who are often discriminated against in the labour market, as well as to contribute to the national design of active policies. it is in this context that a new recommendation should be promoted, and not force a standardization of training which is detrimental to national specificities, or which evaluates them solely in terms of their economic potential. in this connection, we call on the commission to focus on strengthening its collaboration with the member states, the social partners and the public employment services.
madam president, madam commissioner, the free movement of persons is one of the rights which our citizens value most and one of the pillars on which the internal market is based. however, the lack of comparability, recognition and validation of qualifications between member states is a major obstacle to many europeans finding work outside their borders. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i think it is important that the european qualifications framework be deepened and fully implemented in line with other instruments such as europass, eures or erasmus. this will help to better match the supply and demand of skills to the labour market and will make it easier for companies to interpret the qualifications and skills of candidates, thereby encouraging the mobility of workers between countries and ultimately helping to create jobs. at present, member states are in the process of adapting their national frameworks to the european one and many of them are still at an early stage. i wonder why there is a need to renew this framework, which has not yet been fully implemented and whose impact has not yet been assessed.
mr president, according to the fao, about a third of the world's food production is wasted. and something, of course, must be done. many member states are already taking action, including my own. there is a strategy called 'more food, less waste', which aims to coordinate the actions of food chain actors and public administrations to reduce food waste. but first we need to define clearly what is meant by food waste and establish a common methodology for all countries, clear and precise, before we try to set binding targets to reduce food waste. this must be borne in mind, since some member states have already begun to act, and probably with different criteria. as i said, it is premature and for this reason, precisely for this reason, it is premature to try to set compliance targets a priori without a clear definition and methodology and without data on the starting point of each member state. on the other hand, there is also a need for awareness-raising, information and education campaigns, particularly on the value of food, the consequences of food waste and ways of reducing it. finally, i would like to point out that both prevention and waste reduction policies require the efforts of all the actors involved in the food chain in order to be more effective. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the environmental impact of the use of these substances.
mr president, when we adopted the circular economy package, we adopted a non-binding target of 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2030, as the rapporteur mentioned, and we included a specific hierarchy for this waste. it is a positive step in the right direction, but i think, frankly, it is not enough. that we need binding objectives, as has already been mentioned in this debate. not just to urge change, but to make it possible, from the farm to the table - as the commissioner illustrated - through distribution. and we will only achieve this by changing the system, by a model of production and consumption that is sustainable and coherent, linked to demand and not to the interests of the markets. we also need to measure losses in the primary sector better, for example in agriculture, but this also requires moving away from the model of liberalizing quotas and quotas, whereby we produce surpluses which are then thrown away.
it is a positive thing, mr president, that the european parliament is discussing food waste today in plenary; it is a positive thing that a report is finally raising the need for a change of model towards a more sustainable model that speaks of waste generation, that speaks of the destruction of nature. we must change the guidelines and this report starts by talking about the measures needed to prevent food waste, in particular the legislation of the 'good samaritan' which serves to encourage, in some way, that surplus food ends up being donated - surpluses from supermarkets, restaurants, etc. i would like to make a couple of points in this connection. it is all right to talk about production limitations, but these production limitations must be associated with the concept of food sovereignty, because what cannot be is that they do the same thing to us as with milk: they do not tell us in spain that we have to produce less milk so that our foreign milk market is invaded, because that does not make us more sustainable, it makes us poorer. and it's all right that we talk about recycling, but we have to talk about a change of economic model. as gandhi said, there are enough resources on earth to meet everyone's needs, but not enough to meet the needs of just a few. so what is needed is a change of production model; we need to change the model, the system of food production and distribution.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs borzan on this ambitious and timely report. and that is, ladies and gentlemen, it is not ethical for one part of the world to throw away what another needs. we need a change in behaviour - as has been said here - involving all the actors in the food chain. because 60% of the waste in our homes is avoidable, which would mean saving 565 euros a year or taking one in five vehicles off the road, and thus reducing pollution. for this we need a consistent labelling of foodstuffs, which avoids the variation between 28 and 35 days in the expiry date of the same foodstuffs in different places or that the expiry time depends on market demand. we need to have food packaging in quantities suitable for consumption, to encourage the reuse of food and to amend the vat directive, which prevents donations from being exempt for food banks. we also need to work on changing quality standards and thus avoid the many food wastes that are produced. these measures are therefore ambitious and appropriate. i therefore consider that this report is not only feasible but also clearly timely. i'm not sure i'm ready to go.
mr president, commissioner, today we could talk about the fact that the circular economy is not limited to recycling targets or to reducing waste that ends up in landfills; today we could talk about the fact that the food waste in the union represents a carbon footprint of close to one tonne per european citizen. but i want to speak today about a point in this report which we could not afford to ignore, and the fact that it has been mentioned by so many is proof of that. quote from the report: whereas, according to 2014 data, 55 million people, i.e. 9.6% of the population of the [still] twenty-eight europe, could not afford a quality meal every other day. i'm calling it a night. mr president, commissioner, it is not possible that on the one hand we waste 173 kilos of food per person per year and on the other hand we live with people who are malnourished because they cannot afford good food. i would therefore like to stress, firstly, the call we are making in this report for the european commission to draw up an action plan against food waste; secondly, the specific measures for the member states to prevent food waste; and thirdly, the tax exemptions for food donations. it is our duty to put the tools in place and to call on those who must develop and implement them to work together - institutions, national governments, civil society, citizens - to start to end malnutrition in europe. and it is my duty to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work.
mr president, it is clear that we must reduce food waste at european level. the figures are outrageous, and they have been repeated here during the debate. and that is why i am in agreement, as it could not be otherwise, to ask for reduction commitments between now and the years 2025 and 2030. but i would have liked it to have been mandatory, and not just a recommendation to the states, which we know what happens. i also think that there are very positive aspects to this report, but like the whole of the commission's proposal on the circular economy, it forgets the state of agricultural and livestock production. we are still in a runaway model which tends to overproduction and the absence of living wages in the european countryside. in the meantime, we are also continuing to feed free trade agreements with falling agricultural prices. the only valid alternative, therefore, is to defend food sovereignty, short distribution channels and organic farming within the european union.
in writing. reducing food waste is a moral obligation of a developed economy such as the european union. food waste occurs throughout the entire food production and supply chain, and all actors have a responsibility to prevent and reduce the problem, starting with agricultural production. short food marketing channels can be an effective way to reduce crop losses, because productions linked to nearby consumption centres are more in line with real demand and crop losses are lower. in addition, these marketing channels are the backbone of the territory, consolidate the population and are an opportunity for job creation in a sector lacking generational relevance. the relocation of large production centres contributes to increased co2 emissions due to over-mechanization, long distances from consumption centres and compulsory packaging, which increases losses when they are discarded. local production at or near zero kilometres is the complement to the food supply chain with the lowest generation of crop waste, and the cap financial mechanisms should widely promote its advantages.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work and on incorporating most of my contributions. the customs union is certainly one of the first achievements of the union, but it is not finished: we are far from achieving adequate harmonization of customs controls. in some sectors, economic operators are looking for european ports with lower inspection and control requirements and penalties, allowing products that do not comply with european environmental and phytosanitary requirements to enter our markets and, of course, allowing counterfeit products and illicit goods to enter. and these divergences are allowing unfair competition not only with our industry but also between european ports, by penalizing those who demand higher requirements and controls, and are causing market distortions, trade diversions and, of course, a negative environmental impact. this situation, i think we can all agree, is unacceptable. it is avoidable and depends on the political will to defend our union. the european commission, the council and the member states must do everything necessary to achieve a genuine customs union with perfect harmonization. and so does the european parliament. that is why we are here, bringing this magnificent resolution, introducing concrete measures to help solve this problem. the european union needs to harmonize the criteria for inspection and the number of checks at customs; it needs to establish indicators for assessing customs practices. i would also like to say that we must have a european control body which really guarantees harmonized treatment at ports of entry into the union. it cannot be such a complicated process that we have to go on living in the present situation. it is also necessary to improve coordination between customs authorities, olaf and euipo, and to harmonise sanctions and strengthen cooperation to ensure the protection of intellectual property rights. illicit trade - as we have already said - also contributes to the financing of criminal organisations involved in terrorism, money laundering, drug trafficking and arms trafficking. in conclusion, the european union needs harmonized controls, inspections and sanctions.
madam president, last winter i denounced to the european commission the abusive prices of the spanish electricity sector and, in particular, how during the cold wave they had broken records in spain. this is causing a huge social alarm in my country, arising from the importance of the price of energy in the shopping basket and the serious problems of energy poverty, which have caused fatal accidents in recent months. well, commissioner vestager very kindly told me that she would be following the case very closely. this past week we learned that an anti-corruption prosecutor has formally charged iberdrola, a large spanish electric company, with price manipulation during the winter of the cold wave, 2013. so i would ask the competition department to take action in this matter, to investigate the spanish electricity sector and the possible manipulation of its prices for years in an abusive way, especially during the winters, when citizens have more needs.
madam president, the spanish state is continuing its judicial persecution of the catalan democratic institutions, which are committed to the referendum on selfdetermination. last week, the president of the parliament of catalonia and other members of the table had to testify before the judge for having allowed, in the plenary, a debate and a vote on the road to the referendum, and the next episode of this obsessive persecution seems to be to ban the purchase of ballot boxes the government of catalonia has announced that it will buy ballot boxes, which is the instrument that we democrats use to decide. well, mr rajoy, who must think that this thing about the ballot box is very subversive, has already put the prosecutor's office to work to prevent it. it is serious that the president of a parliament has to explain to a judge why she does not prevent a debate and a vote in parliament; it is serious that buying ballot boxes is a crime; it is serious that democracy and its institutions are being restricted in the name of the law. it is serious that all this is happening here in europe. it's very serious, but they won't stop us because they won't stop democracy.
madam president, today i will refer again - i did so in 2014 - to the fraud, the danger and the offence that the failed castor gas storage project in spain has represented, which directly affects the vinaròs area and the ebro delta. at the time, the budget was tripled incomprehensibly. after dozens of earthquakes, mr. florentino pérez received 3.15 billion euros, because he had contractually shielded his failure. now, to maintain these useless and dangerous installations costs us more than 15 million euros every year, which is charged, like all the other expenses, to the receipt of the spanish light for the next 30 years. this is a waste of enormous proportions, a fraudulent and criminal waste. we'll never tire of denouncing him. is the european commission prepared to do something for the spanish people? because i do not believe that fraud and aggression against the environment are part of the european project.
madam president, ladio veron, leader of the guarani-kaiowá people, will visit the european parliament at the end of may. it will do so six months after this house adopted an emergency resolution addressed to the high representative for foreign affairs, the brazilian authorities and the united nations. six months in which nothing has been done and in which the situation of this town has worsened. in march, army helicopters flew over the villages of the guarani kaiowás, from which armed men were dropped to intimidate and threaten the population, a practice they are accustomed to. multinational companies like shell are also continuing to pollute the aquifers in their territories with monocultures for biofuels, another issue on which this parliament has already called for greater control and protection of human rights. the universal right to life, land and water should lead us to do more from the european union: to demand more forcefully the demarcation of ancestral lands and to punish those multinationals who murder this people. we don't receive ladio with empty hands, but with commitments.
madam president, the council has excused its presence, because it does not want to hear us. they know that the european parliament is going to affect their attitude to the refugee crisis. they committed to take in 160 000 people by september 2017 and the overall figure is less than 11% by the deadline. only finland takes in unaccompanied minors. the vast majority of countries, including my own - i regret to say this - are lagging behind while tens of thousands of human beings suffer a thousand barbarities every day or thousands die trying to reach europe. hungary has gone further, and it dares to say that it does not want to spend and that its sovereignty is in danger if it accepts a quota system. in 1948, after surviving the buchenwald concentration camp, léon blum expressed with terrible lucidity that the view that the sovereignty of states was indisputable and irrevocable led to war; that in the name of this dogma the league of nations was deprived of all executive power. the dogma of competition and unlimited national sovereignty is still today destroying ethics, destroying the authority of the european institutions and destroying us. they're not words. there must be sanctions for those who do not comply.
madam president, we have already said that the quota system was not going to work and that it was unfair and insufficient. but we are seeing that it is not only unfair and insufficient: it is not even being complied with by the member states. we are seeing that almost no member state has complied with something that unhcr itself said was no longer sufficient. in fact, it is said that this year we should take in a million refugees in the world -- and europe is not doing it, and that failure is the clearest sign of the political crisis of the european project. spain, i think, is a paradigmatic example: of the almost 19 000 people - 19 000 refugees - we should have taken in, we have taken in barely 5%. this cannot be allowed and measures must be taken. and i think we have to be clear about that. here in these european institutions we have been told that austerity is mandatory and that those who do not comply with it are punished. we say why not change that rule, why not say that austerity is optional and respect for human rights is mandatory, and that those who do not comply with it should be punished. that could start to change things.
madam president, commissioner, it is a shame that the council is not here, but it is a much greater shame that every time the council has acted too little, too late and in the wrong direction, meeting until the wee hours of the morning to take decisions, we have said here, in all the official languages of the union: 'what's the matter, if you do not want to implement them? ' they take decisions and then they blatantly fail to implement them. there's a moral issue. italy, left to its own devices. thousands of deaths at sea, 180 000 people in camps in the first countries of reception, with a dublin regulation that must be reformed. there's a political problem. it is not a technical matter, it is a lack of political will on the part of the member states to comply with european law. a legal problem, the lack of legal channels to enter the european union without being abandoned to the mafia that traffics in people, the lack of humanitarian visas. but also the absence of sanctions against non-compliant countries. i'm sorry to say. spain, a country with the capacity to host, is blatantly failing to meet the figures agreed in the council itself, decisions which have been repeatedly refuted by the council. so there can only be one answer. and it has to be legal, on the part of the commission: sanctions. sanctions, at once, on the countries that fail to comply. not infringement proceedings that last two years, of purely moral content - a reprimand, a warning. i'm not sure. economic sanctions on non-compliant countries, which cannot benefit from european aid as long as they do not understand that the solidarity mandate is not a good wish; it is a binding legal mandate. it is in the treaty of lisbon and the states have to comply with it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. - mr jurek, i'm not sure. how many times and in how many official languages have we had to explain that the countries that joined the european union, ratified the treaty of lisbon and committed themselves to its entry into force, were accepting a binding commitment of solidarity in the management of the union's external borders and in ensuring free movement within the union. solidarity is not a good wish, no; solidarity is a binding mandate. and this means that when there are migrants coming across a border and they are in reception camps, in reception camps, a european response is needed, led by the commission and compulsorily complied with by all member states. and for the non-compliant states, sanctions.
madam president, commissioner, last week the basque leader, when he visited the president of the european commission, recalled the willingness of the government he presides over and the society he represents to work together to build the european project. he made proposals to strengthen social policy, including one on humanitarian corridors for refugees, which completes the plan adopted in his day in the basque country to welcome people who are suffering and need help, but who do not arrive because, in this case, spain does not host those who should, while cities and regions -who really provide services to these groups- have plans and disposition. i therefore ask the commissioner how this knowledge and attitude is integrated into policy planning, decision-making and the implementation of programmes relating to these matters, because the attitude of many citizens and the institutions closest to them has very little to do with the lack of solidarity with which the states, from above, face this challenge. that's why the council isn't here. and that is why the states which do not comply with the agreements deserve sanctions.
madam president, it pains me to see how the council, the commission and even ourselves talk about numbers which are 'absolutely ridiculous, in any case, in view of the real scale of what is happening', when we should be talking about people. who are we to deny a future to saled or denis, whom i met on friday in the camp of mineo? the council adopted a system knowing that it would not be enforced, a system that actually seeks to expel, not to receive. and in the meantime, all the people who arrived after march 20 are condemned to limbo, at least the ones who manage to survive the hell of the crossing, because there are many more people dying than we thought. ladies and gentlemen, it is our past, and who knows if it might not one day be our future again. but do we really need to suffer ourselves in order to feel the suffering of these people? ladies and gentlemen, these are not numbers, these are people.
madam president, to have had the debate today without the council is quite frankly a real shame, because, on top of not fulfilling its commitments, it does not even show its face. look, we have a very serious problem with the implementation of the mechanism. of the 160 000 people who had to be relocated, only 12 000 from greece and 5 000 from italy have been relocated. and, on top of that, the number of arrivals keeps increasing. i would remind you that in italy, in 2016, arrivals increased by 18% compared to 2015. and the option of starting to make deals at the border and disagreeing about what happens to our refugees is not a viable option. you have to meet those quotas. and i say to the european commission: in the face of the flagrant failure of member states, such as spain, for example, which has only fulfilled 5.5% of what it had committed itself to, you have two options: to accept your failure and continue with the indignation of many people who do not understand this situation, or to really stand up, be courageous and start applying - as our resolution will say - infringement procedures and sanctions to those states which do not comply.
mr president, globalisation brings opportunities but, we are sure, it also brings challenges. it is a reality that has brought progress for all, but also difficulties for many, difficulties that populism exploits: it takes advantage of those who ask what is the use of having an iphone if they cannot have a job. europe, on the other hand, gives them answers. i am talking about the adaptation fund, which helps those who lose their jobs; i am talking about cohesion policy, which works to ensure that no one is left behind. but that's not enough. cohesion policy must remain the glue of europe because it is the solidarity of europe, and the other tools used must have added value. we must reconfigure globalisation on the basis of social policies, as was stated in the rome declaration last march. let us get on with it without wasting a single second. i therefore believe that the commission is right to reflect on this, because globalisation cannot be used only to have an iphone; it must also be used to create jobs in our regions.
mr. president, we are faced with the challenge of saving globalization from itself. the wave of nativism protectionism with authoritarian overtones that has swept the west over the last year and a half is directly related to the discomforts of globalisation. international trade has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty - that's undeniable - but it also deepens inequalities that are tearing us apart and generating a lot of losers: the losers of globalization. if we want to continue to enjoy open societies, we need: one, to impose clear, sustainable and demanding rules on globalization, while restoring the compensation mechanisms to share its benefits. to protect the liberal political dimension of the enlightenment, which is in check today, the only way is to restore our social model.
mr president, i think that no one questions the benefits of globalisation, but to combat the malaise that is occurring in our societies i suggest three things that i think are important. firstly, i think that we need a system to protect the economic sectors most vulnerable to global competition; i think that our trade agreements have not done enough to date. secondly, i believe it is essential to protect the lowest-skilled workforce, which is the one that suffers the most from social dumping, from globalised competition. unskilled work needs legal protection minimum wages, minimum income. this is a measure that must be incorporated into european policies. and thirdly, i believe that europe must be at the forefront of international movements to extend human rights, as a minimum ground for expansion to productive globalisation; that all countries in the world should have a minimum ground for production with minimum labour rights.
mr president, i am glad that the commission has taken the step of presenting this document and putting this debate on the table, because obviously globalisation is a reality, protectionism is not the solution and what is an option is how we want it to be. and of course, if globalization is not fair, if it is not inclusive, if it does not deliver equal opportunities, if it does not deliver benefits for all and leaves some behind, what it will be is the end of a future for the many millions of people who see their situation threatened, because they don't see the job potential in that future. and globalization, as its name suggests, requires global policies. i agree with the commission's view that a position of the european union is not enough. all national, regional and local governments must be involved, but so must all the commission's policies. if industrial policy, innovation policy and social policy do not work together to provide employment opportunities and protection for people, i fear we will not win this battle.
mr president, i have to say... i thank you for the study, because you are addressing the distinctive element of the 21st century, which is globalization. they point to the need for multilateral rules with executive force. but which ones? how did you do that? because, indeed, we must act on the social side and we must act on human rights on a global level. but there is another issue: not to lose the european rules with executive force. the council did not come today because it has failed to reach its own agreements on relocation. and it seems to me that there is a section missing from the study that is very, very important: democracy and geostrategy in a globalized world; a map, also, historical on democratic regimes, and a qualitative one on caudillism or how democratic regimes formally accepted as such are degenerating. and there's another issue that i think is also missing: the multinationals in the digital revolution and their tension over the power of executives in small countries, and about taxation and tax evasion. we need all these things to be able to evaluate better what you are pointing out, which is a little naive.
in writing. as socialists, we have long insisted on the need for the union to make a more courageous and ambitious management of globalisation one of its main priorities, so that the benefits of this phenomenon are shared by all and not just a minority. we therefore welcome the presentation of the commission document which serves to open a period of reflection and which, as an essential step towards a solution, recognises the negative impacts that globalisation has on our societies. however, in its analysis, the commission places too much emphasis on markets and not enough on people. the union can and must protect european workers from unfair competition and social dumping. there must be no victims of globalisation, neither in europe nor in the rest of the world. to do that, we must ensure that our values, principles, rules and standards shape globalization and not the other way around. only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
in writing. as socialists, we have long insisted on the need for the union to make a more courageous and ambitious management of globalisation one of its main priorities, so that the benefits of this phenomenon are shared by all and not just a minority. we therefore welcome the presentation of the commission document which serves to open a period of reflection and which, as an essential step towards a solution, recognises the negative impacts that globalisation has on our societies. however, in its analysis, the commission places too much emphasis on markets and not enough on people. the union can and must protect european workers from unfair competition and social dumping. there must be no victims of globalisation, neither in europe nor in the rest of the world. to do that, we must ensure that our values, principles, rules and standards shape globalization and not the other way around. only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
in writing. as socialists, we have long insisted on the need for the union to make a more courageous and ambitious management of globalisation one of its main priorities, so that the benefits of this phenomenon are shared by all and not just a minority. we therefore welcome the presentation of the commission document which serves to open a period of reflection and which, as an essential step towards a solution, recognises the negative impacts that globalisation has on our societies. however, in its analysis, the commission places too much emphasis on markets and not enough on people. the union can and must protect european workers from unfair competition and social dumping. there must be no victims of globalisation, neither in europe nor in the rest of the world. to do that, we must ensure that our values, principles, rules and standards shape globalization and not the other way around. only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
in writing. for some time now, we socialists have been insisting that the union should make a more courageous and ambitious management of globalisation one of its main priorities, so that the benefits of this phenomenon are shared by all and not just a minority. there must be no victims of globalisation, neither in europe nor in the rest of the world. we must ensure that our values, principles, rules and standards shape globalization and not the other way around. only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs, and promoting sustainable global growth. we therefore welcome the presentation of the commission document which serves to open a period of reflection and which, as an essential step towards a solution, recognises the negative impacts that globalisation has on our societies. however, in its analysis, the commission places too much emphasis on markets and not enough on people. the union can and must protect european workers from unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. as socialists, we have long insisted on the need for the union to make a more courageous and ambitious management of globalisation one of its main priorities, so that the benefits of this phenomenon are shared by all and not just a minority. we therefore welcome the presentation of the commission document which serves to open a period of reflection and which, as an essential step towards a solution, recognises the negative impacts that globalisation has on our societies. however, in its analysis, the commission places too much emphasis on markets and not enough on people. the union can and must protect european workers from unfair competition and social dumping. there must be no victims of globalisation, neither in europe nor in the rest of the world. to do that, we must ensure that our values, principles, rules and standards shape globalization and not the other way around. only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
in writing. as socialists, we have long insisted on the need for the union to make a more courageous and ambitious management of globalisation one of its main priorities, so that the benefits of this phenomenon are shared by all and not just a minority. we therefore welcome the presentation of the commission document which serves to open a period of reflection and which, as an essential step towards a solution, recognises the negative impacts that globalisation has on our societies. however, in its analysis, the commission places too much emphasis on markets and not enough on people. the union can and must protect european workers from unfair competition and social dumping. there must be no victims of globalisation, neither in europe nor in the rest of the world. to do that, we must ensure that our values, principles, rules and standards shape globalization and not the other way around. only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
in writing. as socialists, we have long insisted on the need for the union to make a more courageous and ambitious management of globalisation one of its main priorities, so that the benefits of this phenomenon are shared by all and not just a minority. we therefore welcome the presentation of the commission document which serves to open a period of reflection and which, as an essential step towards a solution, recognises the negative impacts that globalisation has on our societies. however, in its analysis, the commission places too much emphasis on markets and not enough on people. the union can and must protect european workers from unfair competition and social dumping. there must be no victims of globalisation, neither in europe nor in the rest of the world. to do that, we must ensure that our values, principles, rules and standards shape globalization and not the other way around. only a strong union will enable us to navigate and take advantage of globalisation, reaping the benefits of closer links between countries and continents, while protecting our citizens and their jobs and promoting sustainable global growth.
mr president, i voted against this initiative because it will not reduce food waste. on the contrary, it will further boost the profits of the food distribution and food industry which will continue to have much more food at their fingertips than they need and at low prices, with the certainty that they will have an outlet in the donation and animal feed business. it also opens the door to future tax incentives for donations and to public funding for the collection, transport, storage and distribution of donations. in the meantime, direct and indirect unemployment will continue to increase as small and mediumsized farming disappears, and so will poverty, social exclusion and energy waste. hunger is not fought with charity, it is fought with policies that guarantee a decent income and wage for the entire population. reducing production, regulating production in relation to markets, balancing supply and demand, finding local markets, selling fresh and bulk products and adopting expiry dates, reducing long-life packaging, are some of the steps in the right direction.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the union strategy on syria [2017/2654 ((rsp) ].
i ask mr voigt to be more concise in his question to mr tannock.
mr president, i would like to address two very specific demands on syria to ms mogherini. first, when trying to reach a long-lasting political solution to that bloody conflict, the eu should never forget that it all started when the assad regime brutally oppressed peaceful demonstrations of common people just claiming democracy and freedom for their country. then of course it all went more complex, with many factions from the inside and from the outside trying to take advantage of the chaos and the war. but in the beginning, what ignited this terrible conflict was the criminal reaction of the assad regime. never forget that, and always stay by the side of those who want to honour the wishes of freedom of the ones who were repressed back in 2011 and thereafter. and second, the eu should make sure that the many crimes against humanity committed by the assad regime and its allies and by other non-state armed groups will not go unpunished. the creation of a syrian war crimes tribunal will be needed in order to make justice but also in order to boost universal justice.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, in the devastating conflict in syria i think it is important to distinguish effects from causes. and in effect, it has been said that the european union is a selfish union. the european union has made the greatest contribution - first at the london conference and now at the brussels conference - and has been supporting the countries of the region: lebanon, iraq, egypt, turkey, and so on. the european union cannot be described as a selfish union, with a few exceptions. now, of course, we have to go to the causes of the conflict, and it is clear that the european union has a role to play in a peace in syria that is stable and that is just. some colleagues have referred to the astana agreement, which is an agreement between russia, turkey and iran and, as far as i know, madam high representative, is an agreement which does not have the consent of the parties. i believe that the only way forward is the one indicated by the high representative: to support the efforts of the un secretary-general, to end the conflict, to put in place a real coalition government, to make a constitutional amendment, to put an end to the islamic state and to set out a road map for an electoral process. now, the important question, mr. president, and i'll end with this, is to determine whether, as it appeared after president trump's arrival in the united states, is al-assad going to be kept in power with the support of russia, its vetoes in the security council, its interests in the area of iran, or not. i sincerely believe, mr president, that the continuation of mr al-assad as president of the republic would prevent, as the high representative has told us, a democratic, united and strong syria.
mr president, federica mogherini, the truth is that the war in syria is the greatest failure of the international community in recent decades, a war that is disheartening and shameful for the entire international community. the european union has been providing cover and assistance to all the multilateral negotiations which have been conducted under the auspices of the united nations in recent years. today in geneva, we must continue to do so, because political negotiation is the only way out, with a triple objective: national reconciliation, democratic transition, inclusive governance; and, at the same time, justice, and to try the war crimes that have been committed by different actors in syria. for that, what's our biggest lever? the high representative has already said that being the largest donor in the region is our greatest strength to influence and to remember that behind the scenes we have a middle east with a geopolitical struggle between different forces and that we must be able to have sufficient strength also in the field of security and defence to stabilise and pacify this region which is currently on fire.
mr president, after years of war, the syrian conflict seems to be in a state of chaos and the complexity on the ground is such that any initiative is faced with major obstacles from the outset. the agreement reached in astana earlier this month and the so-called 'de-escalation zones' have already been mentioned, but we need to know the details of this agreement, in which the western countries, so to speak, have had no role whatsoever. it is true that, in view of the experience of recent years, there are logical doubts about the viability of this agreement and the political will of the parties to implement it. there is even concern that these so-called "safe zones" could be used to alter the balance of power or the demographic balance, or even to break the syrian territorial unity. i would like to see a little more light shed on this astana initiative during the new round of negotiations this week in geneva, and i would like you to tell us a little bit about it. in any case, as mr de mistura also points out, we must seize the moment and redouble our efforts to move towards a ceasefire. the central strategic objective is of course to end the war, but until that is achieved - and it does not seem to be close - we have a moral obligation to continue to respond to the humanitarian needs of the population. i therefore welcome the work being done by the union and the member states in this humanitarian field, and i also welcome the commitments made at the brussels conference last april.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, more than 200 million people are persecuted for their religious faith - christians - throughout the world. last year - 2016 - was a disastrous year in which 90,000 christians were killed. it is clear that with the self-proclamation of the caliphate and the islamic state this regrettable fact has become much more visible and the images of twenty-one coptic christians on the beaches of libya, in the year 2015, went around the world. in december 2016, there was another bombing in cairo, where twenty-five people were killed and more than forty-one were injured. the high representative reminded us of the attacks on palm sunday. and it is true that there is a dramatic decline in the presence of christians in the region. in 2003, there were one million christians in iraq; today, there are only 300,000. in the middle east as a whole - as some of the people who have spoken have reminded me, who have preceded me in using the word - the population in the middle east of christians was 9 percent; today, it is less than 2.9 percent. we must therefore react to this situation and, as the high representative has said, we must keep this issue at the top of the agenda. and of course we have to mobilise all the resources - which are many, as the high representative has told us - to try to guarantee the rights of ethnic and religious minorities. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that we must also support projects such as that of the bishop of kirkuk, who has set up a university of all religious confessions where all the refugees from mosul are.
madam president, five months ago we awarded the sakharov prize to nadia murad to draw attention to the religious minority of the yazidis, which has been the subject of a genocidal campaign by daesh militants, but the senseless and heartless brutality of daesh continues. the slaughter of christians in egypt, which we are debating today, once again disfigures the face of humanity, as pope francis correctly warned this week. ms mogherini, i thank you for the strong comments you made today. i support you and hope your actions will be successful. respect for fundamental and human rights is the core value of the european union. any violation of these rights, whether within or outside the eu, affects the democratic principles upon which our society is founded. all minorities, religious, ethnic or sexual, deserve our unstinting protection.
madam president, madam high representative, today we want not only to denounce but to underline the institutionalized discrimination and persecution which christian minorities are suffering in many countries of the middle east. but we would also like to remind you that this is also happening to some of our supposedly close allies. in egypt, the coptic minority has been complaining that they are not getting security, they are not being provided with enough security. as we know, there have been terrible attacks on your churches over the past few months. in the gulf countries, in several major gulf countries, the visibility of christianity is prohibited. strictly forbidden. and many christians today in the gulf are migrant workers, especially vulnerable migrant workers. we must use all our tools - including diplomatic ones - to protect these communities, but remembering that there are many, many discriminated minorities: yazidis, shiites in some countries, kurds, turkmen. there are many, and some sunni groups. tolerance is for everyone.
mr president, at the moment christians and other minorities are being particularly persecuted in some parts of the middle east and africa. the activities of daesh are particularly serious, and i recall that our resolution of february 2016 called the acts perpetrated by daesh against these minorities genocide and requested that the international community put in place the necessary mechanisms so that the international criminal court could clear up the corresponding criminal responsibilities. today, i have not heard you speak about the qualification of this as genocide, mrs mogherini. at the same time, we must continue to help these persecuted minorities, which in many cases may mean welcoming them into our territories, and in others - where circumstances permit - we must support initiatives which make it easier for these displaced or persecuted people to return to their places of origin, as many of them wish. i welcome the announcement yesterday by the spanish foreign minister that the second international conference on victims of ethnic and religious violence in the middle east will be held in madrid at the end of this month, where some of these issues will be addressed. i have not heard you mention this point either, mrs mogherini. violence against religious minorities - and christians in particular - makes no sense from any point of view, nor from any religion. and i will also quote pope francis, recently in cairo: 'god only likes faith professed with life, because the only extremism that believers are allowed is charity.' and that's the end of it. christian thought is closely linked to this european union. so what we cannot afford at the moment is for the european union to fail christians.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i have to congratulate you on your continued commitment to such desperate causes as dadaab. the european union is contributing 'economically, of course' to the minimum support for somali refugees, although it is clear that nothing is enough and the call of the un secretary-general proves it. money, we are able to donate. we can make diplomatic intervention; we can promote, as my colleague said, a regional solution; we can give the african union a role. the european union is not in a good position to lecture kenya, which has shown enormous generosity to refugees, despite the difficulties it faces. and it is also true that the horn of africa is in a very dangerous situation, arising not only from the risks of terrorism but also from famine and drought. how can we be more effective in helping these human beings? because even if the camp is closed, people are not going to dissolve: people multiply. how can we be more effective? it's the element we have to find. probably more involvement in the bottom-up solutions for somalia, and more concrete support for the kenyan authorities to be able to do that relocation which, for the moment, looks like straight hell. for the refugees, voluntary return to somalia... it almost seems like a joke to talk about voluntary return to a place where nothing but despair awaits them. in any case, i think it is very positive that the european parliament is taking a stand on this issue and that dadaab is in our debates, and i encourage you to continue to insist on the line you are developing, commissioner stylianides.
mr president, the dadaab camp in kenya, where almost 250 000 somalis are trying to survive; the 50 000 refugees from the war in mali in mauritania; the 250 000 people from sudan in the camps of chad; or the saharawi people who have been in the camps of algeria for 40 years - these are just a few examples of the hundreds of camps in africa. but the european union has misused cooperation funds and made them conditional on the governments of the recipient countries complying with the demands of a 'stronger europe'. the cooperation funds are now being used, for example, to build detention centres in niger or to finance the armies of certain african countries to enforce the migration policies set out by brussels, policies which allow those who flee war, poverty or exploitation to remain in those camps without dignified conditions or to remain in their countries suffering barbarism. policies to keep people from getting to europe. africa hosts four and a half million people with refugee status. here, however, they have not wanted to meet the absolutely insufficient target of relocating 160 000 people in the various countries of the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. you wanted to be unconscious so they'd leave you alone, but no. they electrocuted you for 20 or 30 seconds, you fainted, they stopped. you'd recover and start over. after days of open wounds, people began to smell of rotting flesh. this is the terrifying testimony of a young chechen who managed to escape from one of the concentration camps for gays in chechnya. being gay in chechnya, as elsewhere in the world, by the way, means, at worst, your death, and at best, living in fear, hiding and persecuted. what can you expect from a chechen government that says there are no problems with homosexuality in chechnya, because there are no homosexuals in chechnya? formally, chechnya is part of the russian federation, but the kremlin looks the other way and lets it go. formally, russia is a party to the european convention on human rights, which prohibits torture and discrimination on any grounds. formally, and morally, the european union must be active in defending and protecting lgbti rights in its relations with third countries. defending these people, commissioner, must be on the table in our relations with russia. we cannot afford to look the other way, because these people, these people who are persecuted, have nothing but our voice, in many cases, to defend.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, putin's anti-gay propaganda law of 2013 has led to kadirov's hunt for gay men today. mr stylianides, we agree that it is not enough to adopt another resolution condemning the abuses and violations of human rights in russia. on the eve of the international day against homophobia, i ask you to support the recent lawsuit filed by lgbti organizations at the international criminal court. let this court try the president of chechnya for genocide against homosexuals. there can be no impunity for those who persecute and torture human beings, nor for their accomplices, however powerful they may be. on july 1st in madrid, at the world pride, we will be millions who will call for effective equality and decriminalization of homosexuality in the world. you're all invited to come.
in writing. the report to be adopted is an own-initiative report (ini) by the juri committee to assess the report launched by the european commission on the application of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality in 2014. the report shows that in 2014 the commission recorded a significant decrease in the number of opinions. however, this reduction should be seen in the context of a decline in the total number of proposals submitted by the commission at the end of its mandate and not as an indication of a declining interest of national parliaments in subsidiarity. the report adopted by the juri committee is a good agreement. it is a balanced text which stresses the importance of ensuring the proper application of these principles, which are fundamental to the proper functioning of the eu and should be the starting point for european policy-making. both principles are enshrined in article 5 of the treaty on european union and are considered to be essential principles in the european decision-making process. these principles are an instrument which makes it possible to give democratic legitimacy and efficiency to the actions undertaken by the eu.
madam president, we cannot talk about brexit as if those who have been in government for years have no responsibility, when brexit is a direct consequence of the policies of mr cameron, but also of mrs merkel or mr juncker. in short, the grand coalition that rules europe. his austerity policies translated, in the uk, into labour reforms, higher university fees or more privatisation of healthcare. they bet on institutional racism, pointing to the migrant as the cause of all evil. and now that the negotiations are on how to get out, what they're most concerned about is how brexit will affect business. for us, the red lines are different and very clear. firstly, to guarantee the rights of those who are in the uk working, spanish and from many other countries, and vice versa, also of people from the uk who are living in other countries. and secondly, to guarantee the rights of crossborder workers and the future of the whole population of the gibraltar area.
madam president, not everything is brexit: on 4 december last year, the europeans beat the extremists in austria; on 15 march in the netherlands; on 7 may we did it again in france. it does not matter whose political colour won, what matters is who we win: we win those who call europeans from other countries foreigners; we win those who want to rebuild walls and close borders; we win those who campaign on fear, hatred and rancor. the political battle in europe is not between left and right, christian democracy, social democracy, liberals, progressives or conservatives. the political battle waged by europe is populism against representative democracy, it is europe against 'anti-europe'. this year and next there will be elections again in germany, in austria, in the czech republic, in italy, at least. we must therefore learn the lesson: we must change the europe of institutions to a europe of science, education, welfare, security, the rule of law, legal immigration, plurality... we have too often confused europe with its institutions. europe is not its institutions, it is much more. the time of institutional inertia has passed with brexit.
madam president, i have to ask you. mr tusk, mr juncker, there is no point in lamenting brexit if we are not able to draw the lessons and point out those responsible. it is no use celebrating the fact that there was no nexit or frexit in the netherlands and france, because on both occasions, as in the united kingdom, the far right, charged with hatred of europe, grew dramatically. the european parliament has been a very important instrument in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and it is a very important instrument in the fight against racism and xenophobia. the reason is simple, and it is because the european union has turned its back on citizenship, and we still have time to give an answer to those millions of european citizens who reside in the united kingdom and want their rights protected and, in return, to british citizens who reside in the rest of europe, many of them in spain. i am thinking of young people, of those young people, many of them spanish, who are working in the united kingdom and want the european union to protect their rights. because otherwise the threat is a growing disconnect between the youth and the european citizenship, which will leave the european union without a future.
in writing. finally, on 29 april the 27 unanimously adopted the eu's overall principles for the next brexit negotiations and on 22 may the opening of negotiations will be authorised, although officially the negotiations will start after the british elections on 8 june. i am pleased that the guidelines adopted by the european council reflect the position of the european parliament and, in particular, the priorities of the socialists in relation to a negotiation in stages, in which priority is given in the first stage to providing the greatest possible clarity and legal certainty to citizens, businesses, stakeholders and international partners about the immediate effects of the withdrawal of the united kingdom. i also welcome the fact that it is also of paramount importance to the council to ensure reciprocity for the rights deriving from eu law, at the date of withdrawal, of eu and uk citizens and their families affected by the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union.
in writing. finally, on 29 april the 27 unanimously adopted the eu's overall principles for the next brexit negotiations and on 22 may the opening of negotiations will be authorised, although officially the negotiations will start after the british elections on 8 june. i am pleased that the guidelines adopted by the european council reflect the position of the european parliament and, in particular, the priorities of the socialists in relation to a negotiation in stages, in which priority is given in the first stage to providing the greatest possible clarity and legal certainty to citizens, businesses, stakeholders and international partners about the immediate effects of the withdrawal of the united kingdom. i also welcome the fact that it is also of paramount importance to the council to ensure reciprocity for the rights deriving from eu law, at the date of withdrawal, of eu and uk citizens and their families affected by the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union.
in writing. finally, on 29 april the 27 unanimously adopted the eu's overall principles for the next brexit negotiations and on 22 may the opening of negotiations will be authorised, although officially the negotiations will start after the british elections on 8 june. i am pleased that the guidelines adopted by the european council reflect the position of the european parliament and, in particular, the priorities of the socialists in relation to a negotiation in stages, in which priority is given in the first stage to providing the greatest possible clarity and legal certainty to citizens, businesses, stakeholders and international partners about the immediate effects of the withdrawal of the united kingdom. i also welcome the fact that it is also of paramount importance to the council to ensure reciprocity for the rights deriving from eu law, at the date of withdrawal, of eu and uk citizens and their families affected by the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union.
madam president, if a progressive, a socialist, reads the bari declaration adopted last week by the ministers of economy and the governors of the central banks, he will agree with the most important measures proposed for the g-7: fiscal policies to increase growth, fight against inequality, efficient fiscal systems, fight against tax evasion and avoidance, end the gender gap, end competitive devaluation between countries. if we agree, then two questions: why have we been repeating the same thing since 2014 without ever taking effective action, conclusive decisions? and the second question is: why is it that if four of the seven countries that make up the g7 are members of the european union, and they are the most important members, we are not able to implement these policies in the european union? is it a problem of cynicism or is it a problem of inefficiency?
mr president, i have to say... look, i have a lot of questions about democratic control of the bank: about the letters that were sent, about the operation of the emergency liquidity line, about how the bond purchase program works... but look, on the issues you raise, on the legal question, both the court of justice of the european union and even the court of karlsruhe have issued judgments saying that what the european central bank has done is within the legal framework of the treaties. you've already lost that debate, the legal debate. the one with the arguments, too. but the legal one, too. and if we go into the debate on the mandate, i have to tell you that the measures were indeed within the mandate, because what the european central bank prevented was deflation and it was that some member states went bankrupt. and that, of course, was part of the mandate. we can then, of course, talk about the questions raised by the troika - on which, for example, the court has also delivered an opinion - and also about how the extraordinary measures are being applied, but i will end with that. the debate on whether the european central bank's measures are in line with the treaties has already been lost by you.
mr president, i really appreciate this debate because it is a good opportunity to show that this parliament does indeed have a scrutiny of the work of the ecb; that, alongside these debates, the regular follow-up in the commission - the annual reports - accompany the work of the ecb with a critical analysis. in any case, mr starbatty, you cannot tell us that the ecb is not complying with the treaty and its objectives. we have been in a situation where the inflation target has been consistently missed for five years; we have been at serious risk of deflation; inflation has not reached 2% for, as i said, a good five years. therefore, everything we have done basically since 2012, everything the ecb has done has helped to pursue that objective. it is true that it could have done so earlier, as the federal reserve did in the united states, and saved us a lot of costs and a lot of suffering in this crisis, but for that we would have needed a fiscal pillar in the eurozone. something we're going to have to build in the future. it is true, in any case, that monetary policy can create some distortions, as we are seeing in the current account surpluses in some countries: in germany, in the netherlands; but to correct these problems, we need an investment policy in those countries. to correct these imbalances there is fiscal policy which is still national, in many cases, and so the problems with current surpluses we have to correct with fiscal policy in the member states. we can also talk about reforms of the treaties, and my group will be there to support growth, to see whether this inflation target - as mr langen said - can be subject to budgetary control, and of course so that the profits of the ecb, which belong to all europeans, contribute to the budget of the euro area.
in writing. i do not share the discourse of those who argue that the euro was badly designed - at least not from the perspective of those who created it. the independence of the ecb means that national financial systems and debt markets are at the mercy of international capital, which has complete freedom to decide which policies and investments are financed and which are not, giving it ultimate control over the economies and budgets of the member states. in this sense, adding new levels of governance or strengthening the powers of the central bank seems to me to be just an attempt to formalize and legitimize the functioning of the ecb during the crisis: that it blackmails greece and spain to implement labour reforms that it goes to private auctions of large multinationals to finance at zero cost. i don't think this is the way. the ecb must be subordinated to the public authorities, both national and european, and must resort to the public debt markets when financial capital loses its predatory appetite for them. only in this way will it generate the stability needed to finance the social policies and public investment that europe needs.
in writing. the ecb is taking policy decisions that are not its responsibility, with little or no control by the european parliament. their actions in greece and in spain are examples of how their decisions are not neutral or independent, and serve to favour the big bank bosses and the speculative markets to the detriment of the popular classes. the european ombudsman has accused him of giving insider information to financial sector actors and transparency international of going too far in making 'political' decisions. that is why we feel it is urgent to put an end to the business of debt. the ecb should leave the troika and not act on behalf of financial actors or the interests of the stronger economies, forcing the southern states of the union to make social cuts to maintain the liquidity of their banking. end the revolving doors. to enable the european parliament to exercise real and comprehensive scrutiny of the ecb. that the ecb really guarantees an end to the financial scandals of the bank and that under no circumstances will the losses of this sector end up compromising public services, pensions, natural resources or public goods.
mr president, this regulation on crossborder portability is a good thing, because it brings concrete benefits to europeans. my first words of thanks to mr cavada and to the whole team who have made it possible for this regulation to come into being. those who have legally subscribed to music, cultural, sports, series and other services in their country of residence, when they move temporarily to another member state of the union, may carry all this content. this is in line with the free movement of services and also with the free movement, which is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, so that online content will travel anywhere in europe with whoever has legally contracted it. it was, without a doubt, an imperative. one in three europeans wanted this regulated. in fact, the population wants to take advantage of all digital technologies to be able to enjoy cultural content. and it's a success story, because there's been a clever balance between the interests of the authors -- who have a whole series of rights and who demanded the principle of territoriality, and also demanded temporality -- and the interests of the users, who see today the culmination of the interest that they had. the digital single market is therefore progressing and, as i said, the free movement of goods and services is progressing.
madam president, i would like to analyse not just the specific proposal but the general philosophy we are looking at. i think that no one can be against more security for european citizens, but security is not just - or is much more than - border controls. we are increasingly faced with proposals for regulations which systematically link security, border control, immigration and terrorism. this is not only a fallacy, but above all it is irresponsible. it's political fuel for the far-right's electoral boom. but let's be honest here. a lot of times, when we talk about security, we really mean business. i don't know if you know who the european security organization is. it's the premier lobbying group for the military and security industry. its objective is the development of a harmonised european security market. to do this, they condition policies, as the report of the transnational institute on border wars revealed, not to protect european citizens but to protect their own interests and their huge business. unfortunately, the fight against poverty in the european union has often been replaced by the fight against the poor. that's the security philosophy that should be fought.
madam president, commissioner, in february 2016, after terrorist attacks that certainly shocked europe but were not perpetrated by foreign fighters or immigrants, let alone refugees, but by europeans living among us, the council adopted the initiative for a new regulation revising the schengen borders code. many of us objected at the time, not because we were not concerned about security, which of course we are, but because we wanted proportionality and necessity in the measures, and because we wanted to avoid the chaos at the border, which has become apparent not only between slovenia and croatia. because the measures adopted - the new system of identification at borders, the exhaustive identity checks - and not the checks previously in force, are not working. fortunately, it is the police forces themselves who are adopting some reasonableness in the management of the new system, but they have revealed vices in the way it is legislated. because when legislation is passed in a hurry, in a way that is not sufficiently thoughtful or proportionate, without observing the principle of necessity in measures restricting the free movement of persons, we run the risk of the legislation failing to work. the european union is talking about better regulation. i couldn't agree more. of course we need to legislate better, but we agree with the european parliament. many of us raised objections that should have been considered. legislate with the european parliament on the external borders of the union, the management of the external borders of the union and the free movement of persons and the schengen code. with the european parliament, not just the council.
madam president, we have rarely seen such a frontal attack on workers' rights as the one the commission is proposing in road transport. to go from 45 hours of rest a week to 24 hours is slavery. going from ninety-two hours a week to one hundred and sixty-eight hours every three weeks is slavery. allowing him to sleep for three and four weeks in the cabin is slavery. and we tell them as the european unions have told them. we don't want you to legalize this exploitation. what we want is for them to check the legislation in force: with modern tachographs, with inspections, with controls and with a decent rest for the drivers. nor can it be tolerated that they seek to prevent transport workers from receiving at least the minimum wage of the country in which they operate and that false journeys and cabotage operations continue unchecked. the workers, mr. hogan, come before the profits. we therefore support this sector which is fighting for its life and dignity.
mr president, the road transport sector is critical to road safety and the competitiveness of the economy and is also a source of employment. overcoming the challenges it faces requires professionals and businesses to integrate technological innovations associated with autonomous, hyperconnected and low-carbon vehicles aided by public and private investments and new skills that will enrich professional performance and improve services. the evaluation studies on the current framework point out the dysfunctions that we need to correct. these include social dumping, the fraudulent use of letterbox companies in states with lower standards of social protection, the covert protectionism behind the widely varying interpretations of the scope of cabotage legislation, or issues relating to the eurovignette or télétolling. the commission has also proposed that the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens should be amended to include the possibility of a reduction in the number of carcinogens in the blood of pregnant women. that is why, commissioner hogan, i wish commissioner bulc well in presenting her proposals, and i thank her for the effort which i know she has devoted to the subject for some time, and i assure her of my full support, after listening to the sector, for european solutions. because unilateral actions between states only add distortion, confusion and more administrative burdens to a sector which has enough of the problems described.
mr president, for a long time now the road transport sector has been neglected. it is true that we have dealt with railways, aviation, maritime transport. but it is no less true that road transport demands and draws attention to its important role in the symbiosis of comfort. we must take this package very seriously, whether we look at it from the modern perspective of the digitalisation of the sector or from the familiar perspective of social or environmental issues. we must not forget that the road is one of the union's backbone instruments. vital to our economy. with more cargo and more passengers than all other modes combined, it is also a key driver of job creation and growth, with more than ten million citizens involved. we need a strong and competitive road transport sector to meet the needs of the european market and the social and environmental requirements of the european union, which are an inexcusable requirement at this time. in any case, updating of its own paper is needed in addition to other modes of transport. the commission is calling for us to tackle the issue from four pillars: the internal market; fair competition and workers' rights; decarbonisation; digitalisation. the european parliament, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, accepts the challenge and we are getting down to work.
mr president, welcome the road package, because without clear and updated european rules, governments were already creating a jungle of national rules, which were more imaginative, fragmenting and protectionist. we hope that by the time we have to deal with the new proposal for the eurovignette, the vexed dispute over the german toll will have been settled. the news we're getting is still confusing. we are also looking forward with great interest to the solution or counterpart that the commission will give to the additional cost of peripherality. the package has certain reservations about the possible modification of driving and rest times, because we had a hard time agreeing to it and, although there are no elements to improve its effectiveness, any simplification that reopens the whole of the regulation may make it unworkable, or worse, less guaranteed and balanced. the tachograph, you say, mr hogan, and quite rightly, is used to check for irregularities. but what really controls them are the inspectors who control the tachograph, just as with illegal cabotage. that is why we need more and better inspectors and why we are totally in favour of a european agency that will strengthen and coordinate social standards, but also road safety, which is once again becoming fragile. i also hope that the debate on the package, instead of continuing to place the blame on the truck drivers, will open up the possibility of putting in place a blacklist of companies which do not comply, so that they lose their honour.
mr president, not so long ago the commission came here to tell us that its new free trade agreements would ensure that our social model, the european social model, would also apply to our trading partners. there is no more tangible proof of this deception than the fact that after the free trade agreement south korea still does not ratify the fundamental conventions of the ilo and massively persecutes trade unionists who oppose the dismantling of collective bargaining and trade union membership rights. five days of vacation a year. twelve hours of daily work schedule. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i ask why, under these conditions, we are still collaborating with the dismantling of labour rights, with the situation that is taking place in south korea. how can we believe that other social declarations such as those which have been added to ceta are nothing but wet paper? the south korean experience makes it clear that free trade is synonymous with social dumping. the agreements in force should be suspended until the fundamental rights are respected.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president well, actually, four years ago, the rana plaza was four. and women workers in bangladesh, especially those in the textile sector, continue to live in a dramatic situation, although many try to paint another picture. freedom of association, freedom of expression and freedom of opinion are now non-existent in bangladesh, and there are numerous cases of arbitrary arrests, extortion and torture of trade unionists, opposition members and human rights defenders. the commission cannot continue to be negligent, and i am very pleased with the words of the commissioner, but it should immediately launch an investigation into the violation of international conventions on human and labour rights. we are also concerned that voluntary initiatives to promote the sustainability of the textile sector are not working, are unable to put an end to abuses. that is why, just a few weeks ago, over 500 members of this house called on the commission to propose binding legislation on due diligence in the textile chains. please get moving now.
mr president, commissioner, today the european parliament is once again hosting a momentous debate to try to do more for europe, with solutions to improve the very important cohesion policy, to achieve the results that the citizens are asking for. because cohesion policy is the ultimate expression of european solidarity; it is that invisible tool that achieves visible benefits. the cohesion policy is the rehabilitation of the centre of malaga, the outer port of ferrol, the zeneta-san javier motorway, to name a few examples. cohesion policy is also and fundamentally the policy that works to ensure that no one is left behind. it has demonstrated this by creating over half a million jobs in the midst of the crisis and helping to mitigate its effects in the most vulnerable regions. that is why i say that cohesion policy is indispensable and irreplaceable. what we have to ensure is that each programme does its part and that there is no duplication. not a single euro must be lost to red tape. it is not a question of looking for substitutes for cohesion, because european defence is important, because it is very important to negotiate brexit well, but it is more important to ensure that public hospitals continue to function, that water continues to arrive and that children continue to have good schools, because it is our duty to combat inequality and to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens, whether they live in paris, the canary islands or berlin, and we can only do that with more cohesion.
mr president, i think we are taking too much of the focus away from the debate on whether grants or financial instruments are best to be used and in what percentages they have the greatest effect, or what level of technical assistance is needed, a debate which is certainly necessary, but we should focus on another priority first. we still have a europe that is sharply divided between first-class and second-class regions: some are very well equipped to manage investments and to ask for funds and know perfectly well which instruments are best suited to their interests; and others, secondly, have neither the knowledge nor the technical financial capacity to even ask for funds, let alone to manage them. and, even worse, they are second-class regions that cannot access much of this funding, because we are imposing austerity measures on them from the european union itself, which are burdening the pockets of ordinary people and which are terribly limiting the local administration, which is the closest to the citizens. i therefore believe that we must pay more attention to reducing the disparities between the various regions and the backwardness of the less-favoured regions, which is what the cohesion funds are for.
mr president, in view of the current situation in the country we would like to call on the government and the opposition to engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue to overcome the current political tensions and to focus on resolving the serious socioeconomic problems affecting the zambian people. just a few facts: the rural poverty rate in zambia in 2015 was 76.6%, which is three times the urban poverty rate, and there has been almost no decrease between 2010 and 2015. malnutrition is estimated to be an underlying factor in 54% of child deaths. a large number of people do not have access to safe drinking water or adequate sanitation. and hiv and aids are pandemic in the country. that is why we also call on the government to respect, protect and promote the civil and political rights of its citizens; to ensure a fair trial for hakainde hichilema in accordance with the african charter and other international and regional human rights instruments, as well as to put an end to repressive and discriminatory practices against lgbti people.
author. – mr president, ethiopia is a key partner and a hope for economic improvement and political stability in a troubled region, but the truth is also that the country’s regime is authoritarian, cracking down mercilessly on those who voice dissent. economic growth and enforced political stability are prioritised at the expense of human rights and civil liberties, and especially the fundamental rights of the country’s unrepresented groups are being violated on a daily basis. most of these groups are systematically marginalised by the central government. those living in the ogaden and oromia regions are most vulnerable to the persecution, as the case of dr gudina and others show. there is a need for greater ethnically-diverse democratic participation and more equal access to political, economic, social and cultural opportunities among the different groups. being aware of the importance of ethiopia for the economic and political stability of the region should not relieve us from the moral obligation of addressing and denouncing the severe human rights violations still taking place there.
author. – mr president, the situation in south sudan is a nightmare. civil war, appalling human rights violations and under-development have caused huge suffering to the population and have forced millions of its citizens to flee. famine has been declared in some regions, and particularly worrying is the situation for the children. they make up 62% of the refugees and 17 000 have been used as child soldiers. arms trafficking is fuelling the tragedy, and the un report gives details about arms trafficking networks within the european union. this is a clear violation of the eu common position on exports of arms and dual use goods. this is outrageous, and i appeal to the member states concerned to fully take their responsibilities. the eu is a major humanitarian and aid contribution to south sudan, but the laxness of at least one of our member states when it comes to arms exports counteracts all these efforts.
mr president, since 2013 south sudan has plunged into an ethnic civil war, and according to the un, the conflict has generated three and a half million displaced people, of whom two million are children. in addition, the worst drought in the country's history has left two out of every three sudanese in grave danger of starvation. but the terrible scenario of repression, ethnic violence and curtailed freedoms, as well as the effects of climate change, is man-made. it is unacceptable that our external action is only contributing to the problem. it is shameful that our aid policy is only responding to our misguided geostrategic interests, completely ignoring the needs of the sudanese and reinforcing the legitimacy of a criminal government. the khartoum process is an example of this, because it allocates development aid to outsource border control, embellishing it with a nice human rights rhetoric. the role of the european union should therefore be to establish channels of aid guided by criteria of effectiveness and not by conditionality linked to collaboration on migration policy, such as the control of border flows.
author. mr president, one is bored enough with the condemnation rhetoric that we all agree on to come to nothing but to appease our own conscience, sometimes our own hypocrisy. sudan is a tragedy that is made by men. it is an ethnocide created by the human race, specifically by the two leaders (the nuer and the dinka) who are salva kiir and riek machar. we have to establish a ceasefire first. secondly, the presence of real troops to intervene. active troops, not the monusco scandal in the congo, that is, "tourist soldiers". we are truly forces of intervention in the face of the tragedy of the congolese people. thirdly, it will allow humanitarian aid to arrive. and finally, to establish a criminal court that brings to that court the criminals, the ethnocides, who are the leaders of south sudan. the ruling leader and the opposition. and, of course, freeze their assets abroad - in european banks! - which are the result of corruption.
madam president, mr vice-president, madam commissioner, a strong transport sector is necessary to support the economy of the european union as a whole, to increase the competitiveness of our industry and our global presence. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the transport of goods by road is an economic activity. the road initiative for the transport sector is fundamental to its good functioning, competitiveness, fairness, cleanliness and innovation. in the european union, efficient transport links have facilitated the creation and deepening of the internal market. investments in transport infrastructure drive economic growth, create wealth, improve trade, geographical accessibility and people's mobility. demand for road transport has been increasing because of its competitiveness, its ability to improve accessibility and to adjust to customer demand. it is therefore our job and duty to achieve goals that are in line with the new times. parliament is committed to working on all these reports, whether they are regulations or directives. it will be a long road, ladies and gentlemen, and sometimes even arduous, because this package is loaded with sensitive issues, whether social, environmental or innovation. but we must ensure that the result reflects a land transport policy that promotes fair, efficient, safe and environmentally friendly mobility, and that is also sustainable. america has one path; we will follow another that we believe is fairer.
madam president, the message of this package cannot be perceived as being against the european road transport sector in the face of other sectors that are less clean, less competitive and even less connected. and even less can it be a message against professional road users. i therefore thank the commission and the commissioners present for their offer of full cooperation. the eurovignette is coming up. firstly, we hope that the dispute with germany over the non-discriminatory application of the toll will be settled as soon as possible. we also call for clear and sufficient attention to be paid to compensation for peripheral countries, whose products have less added value, since they are poorer, and hence the added burden is unbearable. we are also concerned about opening pandora's box in terms of driving and resting hours, because the agreement has cost us a lot and we hope that we will not make it worse. as for mobile workers, we hope to improve their situation too, but above all to preserve their jobs and return home. and fighting as we do against social dumping, we would prefer to attack the guilty companies via blacklisting, but without putting the burden of proof on the workers, on the truck drivers. finally, one thing i regret missing: road safety. commissioner, how long will the infrastructure and the fines be in place?
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her initiative and the effort she is making, and i thank her for the clarity of her intervention in order to be able to deal with a problem which is fragmenting the internal market. they can count on our cooperation to put an end to social dumping, to ensure that working conditions for professionals are dignified, that home-based rest is encouraged for professionals and that uncertainties affecting cabotage are resolved. we are simplifying procedures, reducing administrative burdens, supporting the decarbonisation of the sector with concrete programmes and helping it to take advantage of all the opportunities offered by digitalisation. and of course we are all going to work together on this regulation with the sector concerned, which provides a lot of jobs and is fundamental to european competitiveness. i call on the member states to stop their unilateral initiatives and to think, for once, that a good union is good for all its members.
madam president, we would have liked more time to study the commission's proposal on road transport. in any case, the transport unions were asking for something very simple for drivers: their right to a minimum wage, their right to rest, and to fight against fraud on the road. and yet, none of this has been picked up. the new regulation expressly allows short breaks to be taken in the cabins and long breaks to take place only every four weeks. travel for up to three days and cabotage for up to five days will also be allowed without receiving even the minimum wage. but above all, we fear that the rules will still not be applied properly to the workers. simplifying the rules, facilitating digitisation, etc. is good. but what we must do is to oblige the states and the companies to comply with the law and to guarantee labour rights. we expected a more decisive action and we are sincerely disappointed.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the new consensus opens the door to using official development aid to control migration flows or, what is the same thing, to outsourcing control of european borders to third countries, to countries in need. in other words, aid is made conditional on countries acting as a buffer state to prevent forced migrants from reaching europe, rather than using it to tackle the root causes that force people to migrate. this is just one example of parliament's position being ignored during the negotiations. other issues include the 0.7% target, the securitisation of aid and the gender issue. in short, we consider that parliament's position has been ignored; we consider that the text represents a huge step backwards from the previous consensus and, for all that, we will table an alternative resolution which underlines all these positions.
madam president, i think we should welcome this tripartite declaration on this new consensus on development in the world, and i think the title of the communication is a very suggestive one: 'our world, our dignity, our future'. i think that in view of the figures - the european union is the main donor of development aid, the main donor of humanitarian aid - no one can say that we are a selfish europe, although it is also true, commissioner, that every euro invested outside our borders is a euro also invested in europe. i think that this framework is certainly a suitable framework which must be developed later on and which places the problem, both in the internal dimension of the european union and the member states and in the external dimension, within the scope of the united nations' sustainable development objectives. he's very good at distinguishing between the short and the long term. and in this context, commissioner, i would like to express my concern about the situation in the middle-income countries. i hope, commissioner, that, as you announced in your communication, other criteria can be found besides the per capita income criterion, because there are also large pockets of poverty in these countries.
mr president, development policy may disappear from the international agenda. it would not be impossible, given what has just happened with president trump's decision and his commitment to break the climate change agreements. it could disappear, and the truth is, it's probably still more necessary than ever. it is perhaps the last chance to really change the order of things, which is causing half of humanity to live in extreme poverty. this is a consensus. it is certainly not the consensus that the socialist group would have made. it is far from what we would have liked, but this is the consensus that has been built up, taking into account, moreover, the council we have at the moment, which is not an easy council for this policy. so, turning necessity into virtue, our group will support this consensus. we believe that we are at the key defining moment between those who want to end development policy and those who want to turn development policy into anything but development policy. and that is why my group will support this consensus, even if it is not the consensus i would have wished for.
mr president, a lot has happened in the world since we adopted the current european consensus on development more than a decade ago. we have changed the development goals: we have made them more global and more ambitious. we have seen long-running humanitarian crises and conflicts associated with climate change. we have seen that we lack the resources to finance development cooperation. it is therefore time to review that consensus and to make a leap forward with a new consensus. in this new consensus we must apply daily policies that go beyond the consensus to preserve that development policy is directed at fighting poverty, to ensure that we reach 0.7%, and to continue working so that no security conditionality can put at risk the aid to those countries that need it, to those populations that are in a situation of dependence.
author. mr president, commissioner, mr representative of the council, the european union already has on its balance sheet a wide catalogue of initiatives in favour of providing resilience in various parts of the world: at the beginning of this decade reacting to food crises and, shortly afterwards, adopting a resilience action plan, targeting those countries with recurrent crises for the period 2013-2020. the council, parliament and the commission have worked together in preparing meetings, resolutions and decisions and in making commitments at various world summits: starting with the sendai summit on the prevention of risks in natural disasters; followed by the new york summit, changing the dimension and ambition of development objectives; drawing attention at the addis ababa summit to the lack of development funding; supporting at the istanbul summit a greater commitment to responding to the humanitarian crises that are plaguing the world, and finally in paris, where a great responsible president took a leap forward for the prevention of risks to humanity - because with climate change we are not only risking our world, but even whether our world will exist. and now, a small president has taken a leap backwards that puts the resilience of the entire world at risk. in this resolution, we welcome the recognition of the importance of resilience in the framework of the global strategy as a priority element for the union's external action. we reaffirm the need for the member states of the union to meet their commitments in the field of development aid, in particular by reaching 0.7% of that gross domestic product. we emphasise the multisectoral nature of resilience, which of course affects the economic dimension, the environmental dimension, the social dimension, the political dimension and the security dimension, but whose centre and focus is the human being in the midst of all these very multidimensional characters. we urge the commission to incorporate resilience into its policy dialogue with other global actors and underline the special position of humanitarian aid, which must be delivered with the utmost respect for the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality, independence and protection of human rights. respect for these principles is an essential condition for subsequently demanding access to populations in need and for guaranteeing the protection of humanitarian workers. we stress the importance of disaster risk reduction and call on the union to ensure that the new communication, which will be published in the coming days, is in line with the commitments made in the sendai framework and the action plan for developing the sendai framework. we also call for the formulation of inclusive local and national disaster risk reduction strategies. we ask that special emphasis be placed on the protection of the most vulnerable groups, the poorest populations, minorities, families, women, children, migrants, people affected by aids, lgbt people, people with disabilities. we call for gender-sensitive programming, and we also stress the need to extend the convention on the status of refugees and the kampala convention to protect displaced persons. we underline that resilience is based on respect for human rights, the strength of democracy, the rule of law, good governance and trust in institutions. all these are objectives which must be promoted in the implementation of the european union's global strategy, and we ask that it cover not only the territorial framework closest to us, where the crises are developing and whose effects are closest to us, but also the global geographical framework. we want to serve all parts of the world, with a special focus on the most fragile countries. and finally, we understand that providing education to children in humanitarian crisis is not just about giving them a right that belongs to them, but preventing further conflict and restoring peace where it has been definitively broken.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we have heard our fill of how uncertainty reinforces the need to promote new governance models that strengthen resilience. numerous studies have shown that resilient democracies enjoy lower levels of social violence and higher well-being rates. we are therefore deeply concerned about how the union will promote the alignment of this new initiative with many of our international commitments such as the 2030 agenda, the paris agreement or the world humanitarian summit. building resilience must go beyond narrow visions based on, for example, security. this is a question that is closely linked to the whole of a political and social system. so, beyond the cheeses, we care about the commos. decentralisation of the energy model, food production, the promotion of open knowledge or the advancement of democratic participation processes are crucial issues for the fulfillment of our international commitments and also indispensable elements for the construction of truly resilient societies.
on behalf of the s&d group, madam president, commissioner jourová, as a constitutionalist, professor of constitutional law and academic, as a socialist and as a representative of the people, i have always worked for fundamental rights and against any form of discrimination against persons or minorities on the grounds of their sexual orientation, their membership of an ethnic community, the roma population, and their membership of a cultural and religious identity, such as the jewish population in europe, in the member states of the european union. that is why i am promoting this resolution and i have signed it in the full conviction that it sends a signal of solidarity with the victims of the wave of attacks and the growing aggression and offensiveness against jews in europe, as witnessed by the events in toulouse, brussels, paris, copenhagen, which resulted in a large number of deaths and, above all, the spectacular increase reported by the european union agency for fundamental rights in its annual reports - from 40% to 48% in recent years in france, belgium, hungary, the united kingdom and austria. this deserves a message of solidarity, and this is what this resolution is doing, by committing itself to a working definition, a working definition, which is not legally binding, but which is endorsed by the international holocaust remembrance alliance, which is an intergovernmental organisation with diplomatic representatives from the vast majority of the member states of the european union, on what anti-semitism is as inciting hatred of jews for being jews and violence, and therefore to attack jews for being jews in europe. it also advocated the strengthening of the security of jewish communities in europe and the establishment of parliamentary action mechanisms, special envoys and specific commitments by parliamentary groups against anti-semitism. this definition of work does not come from any jewish lobby: it comes from cooperation between the member states of the european union and has been endorsed by the commission, by the commissioner for fundamental rights and justice, commissioner jourová herself, and by the action of the commission's coordinator against anti-semitic actions in europe, mrs schnurbein. and my final message is that this has nothing to do, of course, with the sensitivity that legitimate criticism and the right to criticise the settlements and the violations of the fundamental rights of the palestinian population arouses. because it is not fair to link the settlement of the conflict in the middle east, which has lasted for 70 years, and the occupation of the occupied territories, which has lasted for 50 years, with the condemnation that every attack on jews in europe deserves and the message of solidarity and commitment to their fundamental rights that this parliament deserves. that is why i call for a vote in favour of this resolution.
mr president, anti-semitism is no longer the heritage of the right. in spain, 70 municipalities governed by the left have joined the boycott, divestment and sanctions operation, and some have declared themselves "zones free of israeli apartheid". apartheid in israel? israelis and palestinians even live in the same neighborhoods. hamas and the pa, on the other hand, proclaim their intention to expel all israelis. anti-semitism is today disguised as a demand for the rights of the palestinians. i too want rights for the palestinians, which is why i call on hamas and the palestinian authority to hold democratic elections and to guarantee the rights of women and all minorities. i would like to ask my podemos colleagues, if they were here, to explain to me whether it is okay to accept money from the iranian and venezuelan tyrannies, but not to trade with the only democracy in the middle east.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you all for this very important debate. the eu is already today sri lanka’s biggest trading partner, taking 30% of the country’s exports. therefore, the potential to boost exports in clothing, fisheries, tea, spices, machinery and other products, as well as to attract investment, is of course considerable. this would bring clear benefits to the people and the local communities in sri lanka. granting gsp+ to the country gives a clear political signal to sri lanka that we, the european union, want to engage, to invest in its sustainable development, to support a government which has as its prime priority to re-engage with the eu and the united nations system, and to rebuild and reconcile the country after so many years of terrible civil war. nobody denies that there are still problems in sri lanka. it takes time to reform a country like this. we will engage with the government as we have done and we will deepen that engagement. we will be watching to ensure that they respect the 27 international conventions that they have signed up to. we will be watching the anti-torture legislation and the terrorist legislation. we will be watching the labour laws. we will be watching the situation for lgtbi persons. we are concerned about the criminalisation of homosexuality, for instance. experience shows that a positive engagement with a gsp+ country contributes to economic development and creates platforms and possibilities for dialogue on all these issues with the government, of course, as well as with business, trade unions and civil society organisations. this in turn builds the building blocks for improvement. we will be dedicated to the monitoring and we will be looking forward to informing you on this process. as i said, we are already sending a mission in september this year, and i will be happy to report back when that mission has written its report. so thank you very much for your support on this. thank you for this debate, and i am looking forward to working with you on sri lanka in the future as well.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, in particular in investigating cases of missing persons, protecting witnesses and victims, combating child labour and restoring the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions. it should also put an end to the use of torture by the security forces and related impunity and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
in writing. in recent years, sri lanka has taken important steps to improve governance and respect for human rights, especially with regard to the investigation of missing persons cases, to provide better protection for witnesses and victims, to combat child labour, and to re-establish the independence of key institutions such as the national human rights commission. however, much progress still needs to be made. in particular, sri lanka should ensure that its anti-terrorism legislation is fully in line with international human rights conventions, end the use of torture by security forces and related impunity, and adopt policies and legislative processes to improve the rights of women, children and the tamil population. the granting of the special eu generalised system of preferences (gsp+) regime to sri lanka provides an incentive to improve trade access to the eu market, subject to ratification and progress in the implementation of 27 international conventions on human rights, labour conditions, environmental protection and good governance, by establishing mechanisms to monitor the effective implementation of these conventions.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the european institutions are not the closest to the citizens, and that is why there is a great deal of ignorance about how they work. on the one hand we have legislative reports, which then become directives, regulations, which are binding, and on the other hand we have non-legislative reports, declarations, recommendations, which are not useless, but rather useless. in fact, they are often used to whitewash the european union or to make certain political groups in this house appear to be progressive. today, for example, we have here the recommendation on the multiannual framework for the eu agency for fundamental rights. of course, he is of the second type, 'second class', and that is why he speaks of promoting equality, non-discrimination, integration for migrants, fighting xenophobia and fighting gypsyophobia. and these are the same people who a few weeks ago voted in favour of a report - yes, legislative - to deport migrants. the multiannual framework for the fundamental rights agency will be great. and i'm glad to hear it. but what's the use? what good is it if they continue to build fences on the borders, if they continue to force trans people to be sterilized or if they continue to segregate roma boys and girls in schools? it's really not going to do any good. it will, in any case, serve to make it appear that some people in this house are concerned about human rights.
in writing. i am pleased to see the broad parliamentary consensus to support the work of the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). like the rapporteur, i regret that the eu council has left out of the new multiannual framework issues such as police and judicial cooperation, which had been recommended by the fra management board, but i have no doubt that the agency will be able to orient its activity within the broader framework of the eu charter of fundamental rights. i'll take the example of the work done by the fra in their 2015 study on severe labour exploitation. focusing on the situation of migrant workers who suffer disproportionately from the most serious forms of exploitation (slavery, prostitution, etc.) , the work broadened the focus to realities such as those in the domestic, agricultural, hotel or construction sectors, where many forms of severe labour exploitation are generally unnoticed. the conclusions, such as the use of article 83 (2) tfeu to establish european minimum standards for criminal sanctions for breaches of social policy, represent a concrete example of an innovative proposal that recognises labour rights as an integral part of the fundamental rights that the eu must protect.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, un ocean goal 14 sets out to prevent and reduce marine pollution, of which fishermen are the main victims and on whom the entire responsibility for the conservation of fishery resources should not be placed. in this context, we want to emphasize once again the need for regenerating elements in the lagoons and the halting of works which cause changes in currents and impacts on the environment. in the field of prevention, we want to draw attention to the impacts of blue growth and encourage this parliament and the commission to take on the need to prevent any activity that endangers fisheries. we are expressly calling for a ban on seabed mining, for the seabed mining concession in papua new guinea to be cancelled and for oil exploration to be stopped. i would like the eu to defend this issue too, commissioner.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the question i have put focuses on helping third countries to combat illegal fishing, highlighting the role of the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. but above all it calls for better coordination between the fight against illegal fishing and trade policies. we are the world's largest importer of seafood and it is imperative that we close our market to products from illegal fishing. this is far from the case today. the commission does not prohibit imports from countries which do not fight illegal fishing sufficiently. it issues red cards, yellow cards, sparingly, to these countries, while it is much tougher on european fishermen who do not respect the rules. finally, ngos published a report last march highlighting the weakness of border controls and checks on catch certificates. i am pleased that there is a renewed interest in border controls and i also expect that these controls will be improved.
madam president, i welcome the forthcoming united nations high level conference on sustainable development goal 14. oceans are key to addressing challenges like climate change and hunger. i now turn to fisheries to emphasize that the european fleet is one of the most regulated and most respectful of the oceans and their resources. other countries should also ensure better control of their fleets to increase the number of stocks exploited in a sustainable way. it is also logical that decisions on access to resources need to be based on rigorous scientific studies. ladies and gentlemen, one of the objectives is to end illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing by 2020. the fight against iuu fishing is a priority to which flag states, coastal states, port states, through the fao agreement, and marketing states must contribute. i also welcome the fact that another objective is to guarantee access to resources and markets for small-scale fishermen. i would remind you that there are fishing areas and regions which are highly dependent on this type of fishing. according to united nations data, for more than 3 billion people, the oceans are their main source of protein. sustainability of resources is therefore essential. but i also regret that in europe, every year, quotas of species which are at safe levels of exploitation are being wasted. i therefore stress once again the need to look for mechanisms to redistribute unused quotas within the union among the other member states.
in writing. when we talk about the planet, we forget that three quarters of it is seas and that global warming is extremely affecting the oceans. sea currents are the planet's thermal regulator and can change the climate abruptly. the increase in temperature, acidification, sea level rise and the accumulation of waste and pollutants on the seabed and on the surface of the sea are irreversibly affecting our way of life, putting the livelihoods of millions of people at risk. the lack of jurisdiction aggravates the problem of over-exploitation of resources, illegal fishing and the dumping of all kinds of waste and pollutants, and the international authorities do not have sufficient legal instruments to punish these actions. technological advances, which allow us to know the state of the seas at close range, are key to ocean governance and will need to be deployed as a means of monitoring and control. the urgent convening of the un high level conference, focusing on the need for action at the global level to mitigate the impact of human activities on the oceans, should be a clear signal for policy makers to become aware of the serious state of the marine environment.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, very high-capacity internet connectivity, fixed and mobile, is essential to unleash the next wave of the european union competitiveness opportunities and innovation potential and to allow europe’s businesses and citizens to harvest the full benefits of the digital single market. the communications on a european gigabit society and the 5g action plan for europe identify the tools needed to bring this about. the commission has recently reported on the status of the initiatives presented in these communications as part of its mid-term review of the progress of the digital single market. the effectiveness of the proposed actions depends largely on the engagement of member states and of the european institutions, in close cooperation with all relevant stakeholders, to provide the policy, regulatory and financial support that is required. i also want to underline that, for achieving our vision of connectivity, we need to change the regulatory framework. the commission proposed ambitious reform of electronic communication rules, which is essential for deployment of 5g and broadband, without better coordination of spectrum, we would not be able to achieve connectivity that is needed for tomorrow. your report also stresses the importance of mobilising the necessary financial resources, as well as the use of eu financial support to leverage public and private investments. we have to combine structural funds, national, regional and private funding. this report and the endorsement by the european parliament of the new 2025 strategic objectives for internet connectivity in the digital single market will be an important step. we look forward to working with the european parliament and the council on the key elements of the proposed strategy, in line with your resolution, as well as on the related legislative proposals, including the necessary investment-stimulating reforms in the european electronic communications code. all these steps are essential to make the european gigabit society a reality. when it comes to digitising industry, the report by mr bütikofer very much highlights how to make the digital transformation a successful revolution, from developing digital infrastructure supporting businesses to helping workers acquire the right skills. we presented our strategy to digitise european industry one year ago. since then we have made substantial progress. as vice-president ansip has already informed you, €3.5 billion over the next 3 years will be allocated under the horizon 2020 programme for investment in key technologies and their integration along the value chain, as well as for digital innovation hubs. at the digital day held in the rome in march, we launched an eu-wide forum to coordinate national plans to digitise industry - the european platform of national initiatives on digitising industry. in rome we also reached a very important agreement on high-performance computing. today, scientists, researchers and engineers need access to world-class hpc to process vast amounts of data. it could be to simulate a complete airplane, for climate modelling, for genome sequencing or for understanding the human brain. several eu governments committed to supporting the next generation of computers and we expect more member states to join the initiative. your report rightly identifies that the big challenge ahead is the mobilisation of the necessary financial resources and the use of eu financial support to leverage public and private investments. we have to mobilise and pool structural funds, national, regional and private funding to achieve our objectives. i welcome your suggestion to study future sources of investments for industrial digitisation. the report also highlights two important issues which are at the heart of the digital single market review - data and cyber security. at present, data flows and access to data are often held up in the eu by localisation rules or other technical and legal barriers. restrictions on localisation prevent the scaling-up up of smes providing cloud computing or data hosting services. as announced in the dsm midterm review, the commission will present a proposal on the free flow of data in autumn. regarding cyber security, as we saw less than three weeks ago, cyber attacks are a constantly evolving global threat. later this year we will review the eu's 2013 cyber security strategy, present certification and labelling measures to make iot devices more cyber-ready and review the role of the eu's agency for network and information security to make certain it can help eu countries respond adequately. the european commission is working on making sure european businesses and citizens can fully benefit from the digital transformation. we need to develop an inclusive digital society whilst boosting european competitiveness.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive is a very good one. i would like to stress that we are calling for: an explicit 5g roll-out timetable that includes a technology-neutral approach to bridge the digital divide; a forward-looking, pro-investment, pro-innovation regulatory environment to foster competition; predictable long-term solutions that can build confidence in investors; a coherent european spectrum strategy with better coordination in spectrum allocation and accelerated efforts to standardise 5g technology; and, with a view to creating more jobs - which is also what we really care about - the development and enhancement of digital skills, providing the labour market with quality. finally, i want to say that the internet has made travel shorter, faster and cheaper. but we must learn from our previous experiences, adapt to the new era and wholeheartedly embrace the new 5g technologies.
excuse me, but i have here written down a minute nothing more.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. we have moved from large, compact industrial centres, where all workers belonged to one company under one agreement, to a situation where industry uses new technologies to outsource and subcontract increasingly decentralised and also more precarious tasks, including through platforms of pseudo-self-employed, while high value-added technology cores are increasingly concentrated in a few countries, or even regions, of the global economy. the public sector cannot therefore stand by and regulate the technological changes that are taking place, ensuring that labour law continues to apply to dependent workers and subcontracting chains on equal terms, otherwise we will generate a new source of inequality. in the face of the fragmentation of the world of work and the emergence of new figures, a legal framework must be established and strengthened to protect collective bargaining and the right to strike; in short, to guarantee rights. to do this, we need to have the unions in an ambitious industrial development strategy, which ensures that technological transformations go hand in hand with the creation of quality jobs and the improvement of our production model. only then can we meet the technological challenges ahead.
mrs lópez bermejo, forgive me for giving you a certain amount of attention, since you had - it is true - a minute and a half.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the meps for their contribution. the european parliament’s report on the gigabyte society and 5g action plan communications is an important step to make a reality of the strategy and of the concrete actions proposed. with regard to the 5g action plan, we are sure that it will encourage engagement by all stakeholders, including the member states, in this ambitious work, which is more of a voluntary nature than of a regulatory nature. we also look forward to your support in the important ongoing regulatory procedures – in particular, concerning the better coordination of spectrum – that are essential to support the gigabyte society strategy, as well as in forthcoming financial discussions. the european parliament report on digitising european industry is also very encouraging. it shows that we share a common vision on creating the right infrastructures, as well as the right regulatory and innovation-friendly conditions, for the successful appropriation of digital innovations by any industry in any sector of the economy across the eu. of equal importance is that we share similar views on the skills, social and work dimensions of digital transformation. a critical mass of investments is required to achieve greater competitiveness for european industry through its digitalisation, in particular for smarter products, services, processes and business models, and this at all levels – eu, national, regional and from industry itself. this includes investments in, and coordination of, efforts on the development of the broad skills-set which is needed to master the digitalisation. to that end, we count on your continued support for significant investments in this financial framework and the next one.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. i would like to express my concern here about the impact of digitalisation on the relocation of production, on employment and the quality of employment, on workers' rights and on the isolation and depopulation of rural areas. i believe that equal access to the rural environment must be guaranteed and that measures must be taken to protect employment. i wonder what studies the rapporteur is basing his claim on, that up to 2.3 million jobs could be created when 5g technology is fully deployed. i would also like to know whether these jobs are net; whether this calculation discounted the jobs that will be destroyed and how the distribution is in the eu; or whether the use of 'false selfemployed', a method currently used by some companies to make employment precarious, will be controlled. employment in rural areas and that generated by local trade must be protected. otherwise, we will be using technological advances to, through greater speed, further deepen the aspect of mere consumers, promoting the exclusive profits of large corporations over our social and labour rights.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
mr president, parla is a town of 125 000 inhabitants with one of the lowest incomes in the community of madrid: 15 000 people in extreme poverty, 17% unemployment, 240 households at risk of eviction. a town punished by the crisis and the years of neglect of the various administrations. in response, neighbors, trade unions and social movements grouped on the urge parla platform have drawn up a plan of guarantees and rights that includes employment plans, housing and social dining, investments, public services, etc. a plan to which the european union can and must contribute through its policies and resources against poverty and social exclusion. from here, all our support to the struggle of parla for employment and for a decent public services for this municipality.
this closes this spot.
mr president, we are dealing here with the protection of vulnerable adults, that is to say, all adults over the age of eighteen who, temporarily or permanently, are unable to manage themselves because of disability or are unable to manage their assets. there is no doubt that the member states, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, already have their own set of rules, their own rules, their own legal framework to ensure this protection. but there is a legal vacuum - and that is why we are here today debating this issue - when a vulnerable adult goes from one member state to another, moves from one member state to another or has assets distributed in different member states. a legal vacuum is created to guarantee the freedom of movement of this vulnerable adult and also to guarantee his assets. we therefore propose to use, create a european mechanism which can protect these disabled people, these people in difficulty, these vulnerable adults, so that they can move around and so that the protection which a member state has provided to that person, to that vulnerable adult, can be recognised and enforced in another member state, so that that recognition can be guaranteed. we also propose to strengthen coordination, cooperation and communication between member states in order to ensure this protection. there is a need, therefore, to protect and to fill that gap, even if there is only one vulnerable person. the european parliament and all the european institutions do not create rights, but they do have to guarantee them, and that is why it is necessary to ensure that not a single vulnerable person is left without the protection of his or her rights. the hague convention is undoubtedly the 'flag' instrument of private international law, but it has only been signed by nine member states and ratified by seven. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities should also serve us. i have seen that the commissioner has a lot of goodwill. i ask you, commissioner, to fill all the legal gaps to guarantee the rights of all people, and especially vulnerable adults.
mr president, the freedom of movement of an adult with a disability or illness should be guaranteed in the european union. it would also be a consolidated right for a legal representative of such a person to be able to receive a certificate from the authorities of his country within a reasonable period of time. these are just a few examples of what we intend to pass here today. we want the european commission, through a simple regulation, to force member states to fulfil their international commitments on crossborder cooperation for vulnerable older people. mrs jourová, i think you should not oppose this proposal which we are sending to the commission from parliament. unfortunately, as coordinator in the committee on petitions, i have heard on countless occasions that the european commission has no competence in these matters. however, under the principle of subsidiarity - article 5 (3) of the treaty on european union - when states fail to fulfil their obligations, the european commission must take action. so i ask you, for once, not to throw balls out and to guarantee non-discrimination and free movement for these people.
madam president, the time has come to take action to protect our oceans. we agree, the bad thing is that this statement is made in the middle of a toast to the sun and just a few days before the world celebration of the day of the oceans. we need to develop networks of marine protected areas, reduce waste and develop effective measures for climate change adaptation and mitigation, both in oceans and coastal ecosystems. that requires an iron political will, to stop the corporations that continue to hog our seas and market our resources. in this connection, we are particularly concerned about the situation of the tellurium mine in the canary islands. i would like this commission and this parliament, when the time comes, to spare no effort in the inquiries that need to be made to find out what is to be done, what is the spanish government of the popular party to do with this site, because it does not give any information. what we have to do, if we want to protect the sea, is precisely to close the door to those who destroy our oceans and the life of the planet, because the sea is a legacy and it is a treasure and we have to protect it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear rapporteur sofia sakorafa, i am delighted to be in the european parliament today on the eve of the vote on prima. our modern concept of northern and southern mediterranean is an artificial distinction. proximity to this sea creates a shared heritage, and with that comes shared challenges; and science and innovation must be the tools to tackle those challenges. prima is recognisably the greatest achievement to date in euro-med collaboration in research and innovation. it is also an excellent example of successful cooperation between the european institutions. this cooperation would not have been possible without the personal commitment of ms sakorafa, and the tireless efforts of the maltese presidency and the hard work of the negotiation teams are a testament of this cooperation. so i want to seize this opportunity, as ms sakorafa just did, to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, ms sofia sakorafa, but also everyone involved in this work and this amazing team that put all the institutions working together. today, during this debate, we need to keep in mind three things about prima: the what, the why and the how. first, the what. prima will seek to ensure two of people’s most basic needs today: food and water. why is this an issue for us? it is an issue because it is the biggest issue that we have in front of us as people, as human beings. without food and water we cannot make it. but if you look at the mediterranean region, with 180 million people that are considered ‘water-stressed’, this water stress was brought on by changing climate patterns, but also by unsustainable resource management and demographic changes. water availability, and thus agricultural production, is of strategic importance for the whole mediterranean sea. it means the livelihoods of rural and urban populations, and it means territorial development. water shortages have a negative impact on crop yields, so access also means the health and well-being of the population. we have to acknowledge that these issues are the root causes of migration, both within and beyond borders. how do we solve these issues? i think that part of that answer is exactly prima. these challenges are border blind and are often too big to be addressed by a single country. so no effort can be spared to identify novel approaches to ensure water availability. right now there is an insufficient level of research and innovation and investment in the region. this means a lack of innovative solutions that are adapted to the mediterranean region’s geographical needs and that are easily transferable. but we have to put in the means, we have to put in the resources. so prima will fill this critical gap. it will bundle know-how and resources to encourage long-term research and innovation cooperation between the mediterranean countries, from the north to the south. ladies and gentlemen, i am personally invested in seeing this unique initiative succeed. i count on you, honourable members of parliament, to seize this historic opportunity, and to help shape the future of the mediterranean basin by adopting the prima initiative in tomorrow’s vote. the mediterranean region has a shared history. as the great croatian writer predrag matvejević once said, and i quote: ‘being mediterranean entails more than history or geography, tradition or memory, birth right or belief. the mediterranean is a destiny’. let us then help the mediterranean countries to take charge of their shared destiny by embracing cooperation and by uniting against their common challenges.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs sakorafa, on the great work she has done, and also the other alternative rapporteurs, and to express my gratitude to the council for facilitating the reaching of an agreement at first reading. i would like to congratulate the commission on presenting this proposal for a decision on the prima partnership for the mediterranean region, in which several member states are participating. prima is of great importance not only because of its scientific and technological interest but also because it can become an essential instrument in trying to solve two of the most serious problems facing the mediterranean basin. one is water, and the other, consequently, food production. it is also worth noting that countries on both sides of the mediterranean will be involved financially and technologically, and this means that there will be links that go beyond the purely technological. it is also important to bear in mind that it has a european added value, since it contributes to the joint and coordinated implementation of many bilateral or unilateral actions in this field. in my view, the agreement adopted is both ambitious and coherent, as prima will support research and innovation activities at different levels, ensuring the right balance between large and small projects. negotiation with the council and the commission has substantially improved the proposal in such respects as, for example, that the initiative be open to as many countries as possible, but always on equal terms with member states which have already made an effort to participate financially. it will clearly delimit the northern and southern shores of the mediterranean, so that there are no countries that can be eligible on either side. finally, on the subject of guarantees, it was very positive that the commission agreed to make a statement clarifying that the guarantees provided by the participating states must be sufficient to cover the funds provided by the european union, while avoiding excessive amounts. the purpose is simply to encourage participation, and i therefore call for a vote in favour of this agreement tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the commissioner and especially parliament - and in particular his rapporteur - for having made it possible for this initiative to finally see the light of day after five years of work. an initiative that focuses progress, stability and prosperity on r & d cooperation, clearly important and innovative, in particular in water and agri-food, resources which more than 180 million people in the mediterranean lack, and a source, as has been said here, of new conflicts. an initiative that recognises the value of science as an instrument for dialogue, exchange and cooperation. the social challenges facing southern europe and the mediterranean are due, in large part, to the enormous inequalities, because these are the areas with the greatest income gaps between them. scientific diplomacy is necessary and appropriate to work for peace, development and knowledge. so, my welcome and congratulations on this great initiative.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, i should like to begin by thanking the work of the alternative rapporteurs, as well as the rapporteur-general and the commissioner. prima is an opportunity to deepen the construction of research and development diplomacy between the two shores of the mediterranean, which are among the most exposed to the effects of climate change and which must deepen the exchange of experience and knowledge in the development of mechanisms for the optimization of the use of such scarce resources as water and thus also guarantee food security. water poverty, defined as the condition of not having access to enough or adequate quality water to meet basic personal needs, affects approximately 180 million people in the mediterranean area. therefore, this association, which brings together eleven union countries and eight third countries, which emerged from the research and innovation conference held in barcelona in april 2012, should be set up without delay. the debate we have today is the conclusion of parliament's work on prima and shows us the interest and urgency in taking this initiative forward. we must remember that in many areas and watersheds the pressure on water resources has only increased both because of the demand of the population and the increase in irrigation areas, putting at risk some local artisanal economies as well as areas of special environmental protection. the development of prima must therefore be approached in a holistic way, covering both the efficiency of irrigated crop areas and urban sewerage systems and the protection of natural areas, wetlands and special protection areas, always in accordance with european legislation, and in particular with the adequacy and compliance of the water framework directive. we must therefore have a rapid procedure so that the partnership can be put into operation as quickly as possible.
in writing. in december 2014, the parliament and the council supported the proposal to establish prima, the partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean region, and asked the commission to prepare an implementation proposal under article 185 tfeu focusing on two strategic socioeconomic issues for the region: agri-food systems and water management. i believe that this initiative has added value and undoubted scientific and technological interest, as it contributes to the implementation of existing bilateral actions between countries in sectors such as water and food. the interest is even more evident from the point of view of 'scientific diplomacy' which promotes dialogue, cooperation and conflict prevention, promoting mutual understanding between countries. since the barcelona process in 1995 and the cairo declaration in 2007, we have embarked on an ambitious path of collaboration between the two sides of the mediterranean in which research and innovation are key to creating a common space of peace, social stability and economic prosperity. today we have agreed on a financial instrument which can achieve these objectives in a concrete way.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission, commissioner moedas and, in particular, the rapporteurs for the report. i would like to thank the atmosphere of collaboration between all the political groups, because the importance of this report requires consensus, especially with a view to the next ninth framework programme. first of all, you must know - as you know - that horizon 2020 is the largest publicly funded research programme in the world, whose challenge is to respond to the social and economic challenges of society, so its evaluation can only begin by recognising its success and its opportunity. a programme that was born under the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, especially conditioned by the situation of economic crisis and deindustrialization in europe, which gave an important role to innovation, improving competitiveness, strengthening smes. all this from the excellence as a priority, which has allowed a leverage effect of one euro over eleven. however, the rapid and profound changes facing european society - such as populism, xenophobia, terrorism, migration flows, socio-health, technological challenges, etc. - provide a new paradigm to respond to and which we must include. science should serve to achieve a knowledge society serving the interest of citizens, a sustainable and inclusive society in which the scientific community and industry are means to achieve the ultimate goal of a science for and by society. in short, to respond to these social challenges. however - and this is the first point to be made - it is necessary to strengthen the commitment of all actors in the european union to research and innovation. the european union invested an average of 2.03% of its gdp in r&d in 2015, ranging from 0.48% to 3.26%, far from the 3% target set in the europe 2020 strategy and far from the 4% target already surpassed by some of the most competitive countries in the world in research and technology. these data highlight this disparity and the need - and this is the first call - for member states and regions to make a greater effort in r & d. secondly, there must be an adequate budget for the programme. we need at least €120 billion to respond to and accommodate all the excellence that has not been accommodated in just 14% of projects that have received funding from the programme. excellence, of course, must remain the focus of evaluation. but we need more excellent centres. a more excellent europe also needs excellent centres, and therefore the under-represented regions must be given a greater say. the social sciences and the humanities also have to be taken into account and, of course, the impact criterion needs to be better defined. to address the gaps between regions, in addition to budget, we have, among other measures, to improve and make synergies a reality. this requires strengthening the role of r & d, but also reviewing the rules on state aid, harmonising the rules of the structural funds with horizon 2020 itself and ensuring that member states comply with the principle of additionality between funds. social challenges: we continue to argue that parliament must have a special voice in defining and guiding them in the next framework programme. we need the social sciences and the humanities to be better integrated and to have adequate financial resources. we need the recognition and introduction of research and entrepreneurial capacities from the earliest stages, with a reinforced role for young researchers, a fair return from the public, as well as greater effort in open science, the separation of defence from the research programme and a greater effort from industry... - i conclude, mr president - greater investment from industry, involvement in open access and, above all, added value from their projects. and finally, greater participation in gender issues to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in horizon 2020 itself.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the horizon 2020 programme is essential for europe. its almost €100 billion enables it to promote research and innovation for researchers, businesses, technology centres and public bodies across the continent. and to make this program even more efficient and fair, we need to continue to empower women. because today women still face obstacles to pursue a scientific career. some less visible, such as gender bias, that condition young women to choose their career. and other more visible ones, like the pay gap or family care, which is mostly done by women. that is why it is so important to pass the maternity leave directive, which was adopted in 2010 and which the european commission has withdrawn. when we talk about women and science, we also talk about inequality. marie curie could have done much more if she had had the support of the french institutions. it is true that the commission has taken positive steps with good results. however, the target of 50% female participation has only been exceeded in the advisory groups. their participation among project coordinators and in evaluation panels remains below targets, as does the gender dimension in research content. we therefore call on the commission to be more ambitious and to maintain separate funding for gender equality initiatives in research and innovation and for gender structural change projects. financing these lines is quite simple. let's stop spending more and more money on defense and military spending and use it on projects that bet on equality and efficiency. this is how we build a better and fairer society and a continent at peace.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to end by highlighting some of the ideas that have been expressed here. the balance between all the parties and all the interests is the key and the challenge which i think we have succeeded in getting across in this report. consensus as the basis for the credibility and confidence needed by the scientific community and, subsequently, as a consequence, the progress of european society. research as a driver of economic and social development, as excellence, but also as cohesion. adequate budget for projects with high european added value for society: let's ensure a fair return on investment so that science reaches every european citizen. gender and youth: this issue will need to be strengthened in the next framework programme. if we want a great europe, we need all its great regions, all its young people, and for this we need to start the culture of entrepreneurship and research from the earliest age and to have all the potential and all the intelligence. women must therefore be better reflected in the horizon 2020 research programme. we propose as a criterion for the outcome a study to identify the barriers that prevent this and, above all, to promote a framework in the member states which will allow the whole network of women researchers with high-quality projects to emerge. but i want to end as i began, recognizing the potential and the importance of this programme, a hugely positive programme and key to the future of europe. so i think the message we have to have and the message we have to end with is reinforcement and recognition of their success. i would of course like to thank the alternative rapporteurs again for the collaboration and the good atmosphere which have enabled this work to take place and, of course, offer the commissioner our cooperation in continuing to work along the same lines.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and his understanding, which has enabled us to reach many agreements. i would also like to recall, first of all, the particular situation in the mediterranean. its waters are home to more than 17 000 marine species and its coastline is shared by 19 countries, which means that it must continue to receive differentiated treatment from the other sea basins under the common fisheries policy, as third countries play a key role in the state of its resources. but it must be admitted that the situation of the populations is far from the best. this is due to a number of factors, including overfishing, pollution and climate change. this situation requires action, but it must be backed up by tangible and reliable scientific data, which unfortunately does not exist at the moment. as for quotas, they must remain exceptional measures and be respected by all countries. socio-economic aspects are other factors to be considered, including those relating to recreational fishing. small-scale fishing accounts for 80% of the fishing fleet and 60% of jobs, so any measure that is assessed must take into account its impact, as well as the possible repercussions on many coastal stocks dependent on small-scale fishing, as a bad decision can have reversible effects. therefore, in order to strike a balance between the sustainability of resources and socioeconomic aspects, the views and experience of fishermen must be taken into account. finally, i would like to conclude by stressing the need to strengthen cooperation with third countries in the mediterranean basin. no measure we propose, whether it be spatial and temporal restrictions on fishing, the fight against illegal fishing or the inclusion of protected areas, can succeed if third countries are excluded.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr affronte on his report. the prerequisite for any action is awareness, and in the mediterranean there is an urgent need to become aware of the state of a sea which is in poor health and suffering from the effects of great human pressure. but the mediterranean is also a sea of diversity with very varied types of fisheries, dominated by small family businesses and artisanal fishing, and where third countries also play a major role in the state of resources. any initiative to end overfishing must take account of the uniqueness and diversity of the fishing activity in this sea, as well as the fact that the sector has accumulated years of difficulties, due to rising production costs, deterioration of stocks, reduction of catches and a steady decline in revenues. innovative co-management models adapted to the specific characteristics of fisheries in each area and involving administrations, fishermen, the scientific community and other actors in the sustainable management of resources are certainly a good way to restore balance in the mediterranean.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conservation of fishery resources in the mediterranean is a good one, but it is not enough to ensure that the resources are used in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the common fisheries policy. we also think it is very appropriate to stress that the protection and safeguarding of fisheries and marine resources should not be the exclusive responsibility of fishermen, and we consider it essential that measures be taken, including the prohibition of those activities in the blue economy which endanger the future of the oceans and fisheries, such as oil and gas extraction, mining, industrial aquaculture, etc. it is urgent and essential to tackle the cleaning and regeneration of rivers and prevent tons of garbage and plastics from ending up in the sea every year. it is also urgent to establish the necessary preventive measures to detect, eradicate and prevent invasive species. another positive aspect of this report is the support for the need for fishing opportunities to be allocated on the basis of objective and transparent criteria, taking into account social, economic and environmental aspects, and for the allocation to be made in a way that does not discriminate against small-scale fishing and small-scale fishing, both because of the level of jobs they generate and because of their lower impact on the environment.
mr. president, i want to thank mr. affronte. the mediterranean has for many years been the great forgotten part of the common fisheries policy and i am therefore particularly pleased today that in recent times many encouraging initiatives have been taken to address the problems and challenges of this basin. as veronica lope said earlier, the mediterranean is an extraordinary resource which the coastal countries have the opportunity to share, but those same countries have the obligation to preserve this resource. any measure taken on one side of the mediterranean is doomed to failure if there are no similar measures on the other side. on the contrary, measures will be doubly effective if fishermen feel that they are not discriminated against, if they feel that there is a level playing field for everyone. a multiannual approach with adapted technical measures and adopted with the full participation of the sector is the right approach. in my report on technical measures which is now being drawn up, i am advocating real regionalisation. the socioeconomic fabric of the mediterranean is very fragile, composed mainly of artisanal and traditional fishermen who are also very respectful of the marine environment. these arts and techniques must be preserved as part of the region's cultural integrity and heritage and deserve special consideration and incentives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing industry is not affected by the current crisis. the mediterranean deserves our full attention. let's not ignore our responsibility.
mr president, we are in the middle of an important debate. it is an own-initiative report on the mediterranean sea, and that has led us to an important reflection. i am from spain, and one of the seas we have for our fishing industry is the mediterranean. but i would like to mention here - a colleague has already mentioned this - that the situation in the mediterranean is not only affected by overfishing or the fishing sector. the increase in maritime transport also interferes; the urban situation of the coastline and the over-exploitation of mining also interfere. i am referring to the fact that there are many activities, not just fishing, involved in the mediterranean and in the serious situation. i agree that action must be taken in the mediterranean, but we must take everything into account. we've talked about small-scale fishing, but you know, mr. moedas, what's the problem? the problem is that when it comes to applying a differential to small-scale fishing, the member states do not do so. and when it comes to applying a quota system, they make a standard system and give more to industrial fishing than to artisanal fishing, hence the concern about the quota system. if they have to be applied in the mediterranean, then let them be applied. but we have to take into account the sectors that have the greatest sustainability and of course talk to this sector.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would also like to thank my colleague, mrs dlabajová, for the good cooperation we have had in this report, which was precisely intended to anticipate possible problems in the evaluation of horizon 2020 and in the preparation of the ninth framework programme for research and development. because we saw with great concern, from the committee on budgetary control, that there was a recurrent and, moreover, worryingly high error rate, which nobody seemed to be interested in. most of the years we had an error, identified by the court of auditors, of more than 5%, which, after many corrections and much negotiation, we were reducing, but also a very large percentage of operations with errors which - as my colleague has rightly said - were mainly due to problems of reimbursement which the court of auditors has identified as one of the major problems. there are also delays in deadlines and, above all, a feeling of a certain opacity due to redundancies, inconsistencies and some problems relating to 'possible or not' state aid linked to the issue of subsidies, apart from the outsourcing of agencies, which also generates, in that distance, moreover, greater problems in management. so we are very interested in seeing that before 2020 it is finally achieved - and the commissioner will tell us today - that if possible not only the implementation of the previous 7pm is completed, but also its control, since we are already fully implementing horizon 2020 and preparing the new programme. finally, we should propose that the management of the directorate-general should be more transparent, that the projects and programmes, some of them exceptional and very excellent, which we must maintain, should sometimes coincide with others of very doubtful efficiency or effectiveness, especially in the 'innovation' column and in the social challenges, where much remains to be done. and finally, to say that there are some important or interesting proposals, such as agreeing with the european regions on a pact for science and research that leads to something that we believe is really relevant, and that is that in all the budgets of the regions and the member states of the union 3% of gdp of their budgets should be devoted to research and innovation. we believe that this is where programmes like 7pm and horizon 2020 should try to serve more than as a place to place or to make money for some programmes, that some of them are good, but others are more than doubtful.
mr president, first of all, as rapporteur for the committee on employment, i would like to thank all the alternative rapporteurs for their collective work, because i think it has been very positive and would have laid the foundations for designing a strategy against a gender gap in pensions which today stands at 39% in the european union. unfortunately, the rapporteur, referring to a conflict of competence in what were really political differences with the opinion of the employment committee, deleted paragraphs dealing with the structural causes of employment discrimination, which multiply their effects once retirement age is reached. and we can already see how much the rapporteur cares about tackling the gender gap when she has preferred to be at a political event of her party today rather than being here defending her report in this house. i am referring to the amendments which we tabled in the committee on employment to resolve these paragraphs which have been deleted; they concern the promotion of the dignity of work and wages in the most precarious and feminized sectors, the strengthening of public pension systems and the objectives to combat discrimination against women in employment.
mr president, i would like to draw attention here today to the disparity in pensions which also exists in agricultural activity, especially for those women farmers who work on family farms. they usually start their contribution later and then logically have fewer years of social contribution. in many cases they remain invisible throughout their working lives, leading to situations of heavy dependence on their husbands in old age and also to many situations of poverty.
(the speaker spoke in catalan. )
(the speaker spoke in catalan. )
yes, i am speaking catalan.
mr president, i understand that the rules do not prohibit me from using another language. the regulation gives me the right to use an official language, but it does not forbid me to use a language that is not official. i assume i'm not being played.
(the speaker spoke in catalan. )
mr president, last week we witnessed the liquidation of a centuries-old banking institution like the banco popular. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is therefore questionable whether there was any alternative to such a liquidation, whether an orderly sale of banco popular was possible. in my opinion, yes. the managers of the banco popular have certainly been irresponsible. there have been bad practices in the marketing of convertible capital and in its latest capital increase, but we cannot ignore the alarmist statements made by the chair of the single resolution mechanism, elke könig, in an interview on 23 may. some people see that interview as the beginning of the end for banco popular. that is why i have called elke könig to the chamber to explain her actions.
mr president, i would like to join in the declaration of the 25th anniversary of the promulgation of the european charter for minority or regional languages tonight, thinking, as it is said in my mother tongue, (the speaker speaks in basque). because article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights prohibits all discrimination and expressly includes, among many others, discrimination on grounds of language or membership of a national minority. those who do not suffer from this discrimination think that it is a venial sin to exercise it, but only because it is customary to consider that (the speaker intervenes in basque), while at least 50 million europeans feel that our fundamental rights are being violated. because in the union our mother tongues are outlawed. (the speaker spoke in basque. ) in europe, there are more nations than states and more languages than the official languages of the member states. however, speakers of the latter are not protected by the treaties. daily experience proves this. a space of democracy and freedom will never be such if (the speaker intervenes in basque).
(the speaker spoke in catalan. )
mr president, the problem is not that interpretation is denied here for languages such as basque. the real problem is that the same thing is still happening in my country, where the spanish and french states grant different linguistic rights to basque society and sometimes even deny them. but we're not going to give up here either, and i'm going to speak in basque. (the speaker spoke in basque) )
(the speaker spoke in catalan. )
mr president, this year marks the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the european charter for regional or minority languages. i would like to draw attention to the systematic disregard for the european charter by the galician and spanish authorities and to the need for the galician government to repeal all the measures it has taken against the galician language in recent years, including the decree on education. these practices represent an intolerable contempt for our language and an attack on our linguistic rights by those who have the duty to protect them and to provide the means to ensure the full normalization of the galician language and its uses in all spheres. we also call on the european union and the spanish galician authorities to respect and implement the european charter and on mr tajani to fully recognise the galician language and to guarantee the linguistic rights of galicians and galicians in this parliament.
(the speaker spoke in catalan. )
mr president, do you want catalonia to be an independent state in the form of a republic? the catalan people will be called by our government to answer that clear question by voting on 1 october. despite further threats and pressures that may come from the spanish authorities, we will make our choice, we will exercise our democratic right even if the spanish state does not want us to, because, in a democracy, setting out ballot boxes and letting people vote can never be illegal. for a democracy to prevent a legitimate and widely demanded vote would be a dour, perverse undertaking that no democracy should accept. the people of catalonia will vote because it is our right. this will be our opportunity to democratically take leave of a state with pervasive corruption, inefficient institutions, a politicised judiciary, and with a poor record in social justice and shared progress. europe will then gain a new, modern republic.
mr president, consumers will greatly appreciate the proposed change in product labelling. the new efficiency scale will put an end to the old model and now, for example, household appliances will have a simpler scale, from a to g, eliminating those categories of axes with more crosses, which were quite confusing. we have spoken about this in this house many times. energy efficiency is, along with saving, one of the key measures to achieve the necessary energy transition and reduce emissions, but it also allows us to reduce our consumption and therefore also reduce our bill. again, what's good for the environment is also good for our pockets. and we believe this will also be good for industry, because high efficiency or environmental standards are what make our industry competitive at the top and drive innovation, which increases value added and ultimately transforms our production fabric into a less polluting, climate-friendly one.
mr president, commissioner, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, the commission has led the transition of the european economy towards a low-emission, more sustainable economy. the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is proof of this, with 20% of the total union budget allocated to actions to combat climate change. it was with the summer 2015 package that the commission proposed a revision of labelling, mainly because with the development of new technologies it was necessary to update the legislation on labelling to make it comprehensible. mr eickhout said it: can anyone tell me the difference between an appliance with an a++ efficiency and one with an a+++ efficiency? that's what we're talking about. we must clarify the standard so that consumers can, according to their own criteria, purchase the products they are most interested in and point out that, thanks to this clarification on the labelling, together with the development of the ecodesign package, we can achieve a saving of 500 euros in each european household. and not only that, we can also make our industry more competitive, bringing it profits of 65 billion euros, according to the commission's own figures, and saving energy consumption equivalent to the annual energy consumption of italy and all the baltic countries combined. we have therefore returned to a clarification of labelling a to g, from dark green to deep red, introduced a product registration database to ensure that the competent authorities can exercise their supervisory role and empowered citizens, through a public database containing all energy labels, to compare the differences in efficiency between household appliances. i therefore believe that we must approve the agreement reached in the tripartite dialogue, and i take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs once again on the great work they have done.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, within the proposals of the climate change package, this concerns the effort to be made by the so-called diffuse sectors: agriculture, transport and construction, buildings, which will have to reduce their emissions by 30% compared to 2005. the commission and the council have negotiated the country-specific objectives, and parliament has respected them and refused to touch them. our debate has been and is focused - which has not been easy, by the way - mainly on the date of the start of the trajectory and on flexibilities. the agreements contained in the compromise amendments which we shall be voting on tomorrow are acceptable. they're supportive and they're balanced. the last thing my political group likes is the start of the trajectory in 2018, but it is a negotiation and we all had to give in. we are, however, reasonably satisfied with a lulucf flexibility of 280 million tonnes of carbon. we would have liked it to have been a floor and not a roof, as we finally agreed, but that's what we agreed. a reserve for early compliance of 90 million tonnes is very satisfactory, because it can alleviate the effort of some countries which have been less favoured in the allocation of the effort. flexibility in the cancellation of allowances is also acceptable. like i said, it hasn't been easy. i would like to thank mr gerbrandy very warmly for his flexibility and his willingness to reach agreements. we all have the desire and the ultimate ambition that everything is good. finally, paper can take it all, wishes are very commendable, but in the end this translates into an effort for the economic sectors which are the ones creating jobs and, in short, the ones sustaining our system.
mr. president, in the last few days trump has pulled one of the world's most polluting countries out of the paris agreement, along with china, while here we are using fake tools in the fight against climate change. the report is a very small step. let us not be fooled: we know today that we will not achieve the objectives of the paris agreement. there's no point in commitments on paper when everything is based on buying bonds to keep wrecking the planet and doing business. in spain, rajoy says change is needed and yet he punishes self-consumption. here, cañete opens the door to the energy lobbies, the most polluting on the planet. because all you gentlemen know how to do is help your friends in the multinationals. and what this planet is crying out for is a radical change in the production model in our way of life, in our consumption, in our relationship with nature; a change that will only come from the hands of an aware and committed citizenry, because what we are playing today, in this house, is the future of this earth.
in writing. the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change. following the announcement of the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement, the european union must lead the process and redouble its efforts as a reference region. we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2°c above pre-industrial levels and we will defend the need for additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5°c. we support the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible, although we are aware that this task will take longer in developing countries. in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which is aimed at developing countries to reduce their emissions and mitigate the consequences of climate change. to this end, we socialists want to maintain the objective of mobilising 100 000 million dollars a year by 2020 and extend this measure until 2025.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as one of the best known and most popular eu programmes, erasmus has become a symbol of europe and of our fundamental values, but it is also much more than a symbol. since its inception in 1987, more than 9 million people have studied, worked or volunteered abroad under the programme. erasmus has thus proved to be a key tool for international mobility and intercultural exchange. it gives real meaning to the idea of european citizenship. thirty years means that we can already celebrate three generations of erasmus students. i am very pleased to note that, amongst decision makers, including within the eu institutions, many colleagues have their own personal experience of having participated in the erasmus exchange. we are now midway through the current programme, erasmus plus. our focus now needs to be turned towards the next programming period and we should already start reflecting on the ways in which we can further improve and develop the programme beyond 2020. (applause)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, madam president of the council of ministers, ladies and gentlemen, i have three minutes to tell you about 30 years of one of the most emblematic programmes of the european union, which, from 11 countries at the beginning, now extends to 33 countries and which, by encouraging the mobility of all young people and enabling them to develop their talents and skills, has given rise to a real union of citizens. three minutes is not long. i have only one message for the future, as we celebrate the 9 millionth young erasmus: let us be at least 9 times more ambitious together, because erasmus is the right answer to the stupidity of national egoism and withdrawal. erasmus is a europe of great promise, a europe of confidence, united and resolutely looking to the future. i therefore count on you to ensure that the european budget is up to the talents of our young people. (applause) i would like to thank several members of the commission have participated in the erasmus programme. my neighbour tibor navracsics, when he was a young student in hungary, was not able to participate in the programme, but now he is the commissioner responsible. plus, as we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the program, he's celebrating his birthday today, so happy birthday! (applause) i would like to thank every euro we invest in erasmus is an investment in the future, not just in the future of a young person, but in our european idea. the european union is not only a great example of a great europe, but also a great example of a great europe. many who were there with erasmus told me that erasmus had changed their view of europe, and some even said that it had changed their lives. europe brings an unmeasurable wealth, which is based on its people and on its diversity of cultures, languages and traditions. this is the magic of europe which erasmus of rotterdam had left to convince europeans 500 years ago. so goes my night. wenn ich auf unserem kontinent unterwegs bin, verliebe ich mich jedes mal aufs neue also in den kontinent. i am not sure that i can say that i am not happy with the way things are going in our country. this has also happened to one or other erasmus students, sometimes in a more romantic way. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the commission has nothing to do with that. (beifall) this is not due to the work of the commission, but i welcome this kind of european convergence very much. (heiterkeit) in diesem sinne i wish erasmus much success in his future! (beifall)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the commission. this is a happy coincidence between the recent 30 years of portugal in the european union and the 30 years of erasmus in portugal and in europe. the coincidence of one of the happiest chapters in recent portuguese history with one of the happiest programmes of european identity. i am but a humble example of that happy coincidence. middle-class, from a small rural village in northern portugal, i left home early to move to the city, to the big city, to attend high school. i then moved to one of the oldest portuguese universities and then had the opportunity to go to europe. with my backpack on my back, full of uncertainties, i felt that i had conquered madrid as if it were my own little village. it was 10 wonderful, eternal months where i became a scientist's apprentice and where i became, by the way, a full european. but before i went to europe, i had already come to feel europe in a very special way, with all the erasmus students who visited my university and stayed there for a semester or a whole year. it was these "erasmus" who came before me who first taught me what it meant to be truly european. i wanted to say to you, europe, that you are right when you have the ambition to make erasmus a lifelong partner for all your citizens. you will certainly have a wider europe, because you will certainly be more europe, because we, those who have had the experience and all europeans, will be more citizens. this is an active ambassador for the erasmus programme and for europe. i will not say much about the months i spent there, because we all know that what happens in erasmus stays in erasmus. thank you very much, europe. thank you very much, erasmus.
mr president, i am delighted to be here. φίλες και φίλοι, κυρίες και κύριοι! – mina damer och herrar! jag fick precis reda på att man kan prata svenska här, så fantastiskt! det är en ära och ett privilegium att vara här. det bästa eu någonsin har gjort är erasmus. jag hade turen och förmånen att vara en av dem som fick denna ynnest att få studera. det kanske är det viktigaste som någonsin har hänt i mitt liv. det är också anledningen till att jag står här idag. jag, som är ett invandrarbarn, ett migrantbarn från grekland, med lågutbildade föräldrar, med föräldrar som har städat sverige, som kommer till sveriges fattigaste förort rinkeby, utan någon som helst akademisk bakgrund, någonstans, någon gång i släkten, någonstans i kvarteren där jag bor, jag fick chansen att studera på ett svenskt universitet och sedan få ett erasmus-stipendium för att uppleva mitt andra hemland, grekland, där kunde jag läsa internationell politik och politisk sociologi. min tacksamhet är oändlig, och min tacksamhet yttrar jag genom att uppmuntra unga människor i hela europa att fortsätta ta detta tillfälle i akt, att röra sig och att se hela europa som vårt gemensamma hem. framför allt upplever jag att det är en sådan ära att få vara här just idag. det är så värdefullt med initiativ som erasmus med tanke på de mörka och turbulenta tider vi lever i, med den rasism, den misogyni, den extremism, den segregation som är en stor utmaning för hela europa och som jag och ni och väldigt många runtom i europa, som inte här just idag, kämpar dagligen med. erasmus är just detta brobyggande. erasmus är den sociala hissen, som kan lyfta så många människor med enorm potential. jag vill bara säga ett stort och varmt tack och lycka till. jag kommer att bära det här minnet och den här förmånen och försöka sprida ordet. tack så mycket och lycka till!
hello, everybody! how are you? the time spent in spain as an internship abroad has helped me in many ways. i learned a lot of things that i can still enjoy today, such as the independence of finding one's way in a foreign country despite major linguistic differences, but also despite minor cultural differences. i have overcome my fears of communicating in a foreign language, because i have learned that it is not so important to speak without mistakes, but that even with small mistakes, communication is possible without effort. i also learned a lot about the culture of the country and about working life in spain. i can think of my first day at the company, where, as i am used to from my german homeland, i would have expected a small welcoming committee. but nobody was really prepared for it, which was not a problem at all. in a short time, the right people were assembled, and shortly after that i was on a company tour, which also involved some minor language complications. but there was a lot of hand and foot work and drawings, so it wasn't a problem. so, to sum up, i think the internship was a huge success for me. i met great people, i saw beautiful places, i found an excellent organisation through erasmus+, and i learned many lessons for my future life. congratulations to erasmus+ on its 30th birthday! (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their support for this report. that is what allows a number of efta countries, or countries which are candidates for accession to the european union, to participate in this cultural capital programme. and that will not in any way prevent the countries which are now part of the european union from continuing with the same programme. that is to say, there will be two countries that will belong to the european union and a third country that will be added later, or efta countries. i would like to thank all the other rapporteurs again for their support. that's all i know.
mr president, one of the most biodiverse areas in the world, the mediterranean sea, is over-fished for 93% of its species. if there is overfishing in the mediterranean but jobs are being destroyed, who is fishing? it is simple: the big bluefin tuna monopoly fishers, who keep 80% of the quota for this species, while the small-scale fishermen are desperate because they are prevented from going out to work to earn their living. it is almost a moral obligation in this parliament, when we talk about fishing in the mediterranean, to say loud and clear that the spanish state is in breach of article 17 of the common fisheries policy. the spanish government allocates fishing quotas according to political and territorial criteria and is not monitoring, for example in catalonia, the actual payment of biological stocks to the mediterranean fishing fleet. protecting small-scale fishing and protecting marine resources go hand in hand and this requires an ironclad political will because we owe it to the fishermen and their families, who have fed the people for centuries.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the reflection paper on the deepening of the emu contributes to the broader political debate on the future of europe started with the march white paper. the five presidents’ reports and the rome declaration underline that the union should promote convergence and that we need to work towards completing the economic and monetary union. i would like to thank parliament for its valuable input in several own initiative reports, namely brok, bresso, verhofstadt and berès. the euro is one of europe’s most significant achievements. it is the currency of 340 million people in 19 countries and the second most used currency in the world. it has brought price stability and has made it easier to do business and to travel. the euro quickly became the symbol of prosperity for our citizens and it should remain so. the financial and economic crisis underlines the weaknesses in the way the euro is set up. the determined policy response has made emu stronger but not filled all the gaps. there is still a lack of convergence and questions remain about the long—term resilience of the euro area. we cannot wait for another crisis to act. the reflection paper presents a toolbox on the way forward. it is more targeted at what can be done over the next two years to 2019 and more open about what might come afterwards up to 2025. key guiding principles for any advances are: a balanced approach in which responsibility and solidarity, risk reduction and risk sharing go hand in hand; the openness of the euro deepening process for all eu countries; and keeping the unity of the single market, transparency and democratic accountability. our ideas on the way forward are structured in three building blocks: financial union, economic and fiscal union, and governance and accountability. on financial union, we are aiming at renewed financial integration, safer financial institutions that can finance the real economy and more risk sharing via private channels. the capital markets union is key to broadening financial options, so i am glad of the recent agreements reached by the co—legislators on venture capital and securitisation and look forward to working with you on the initiatives on the mid—term review. we should further reduce risks in our banking sector based on the package of november 2016. we are also working on member states with a european strategy to reduce the stocks of non-performing loans. the eu framework for bank resolution will not be fully effective without a fiscal backstop to the single resolution fund, and without a european deposit insurance scheme depositors will not be protected to the same extent across the euro area. we need to further weaken the link between banks and sovereigns. in this context we are following the ongoing work in the european systemic risk board on so-called sovereign bond backed securities. they can deliver tangible benefits by increasing the diversification of banks’ balance sheets and by fostering private risk sharing. they do not involve debt neutralisation among member states or changes in the regulatory treatment of government bonds. for the longer term, we need a debate about the zero risk rates of certain banks under current banking rules and a possible new european safe asset. so there are both complex and sensitive issues. our reflection paper frames them with strong caveats, notably in terms of preventing unwarranted consequences for financial stability and for moral hazard. in the area of economic and fiscal union, the aim is to see convergence between member states towards more resilient economic structures. with the bulk of economic and social policies under national responsibilities, there is no doubt that we need to have a continued commitment to structural reforms. the european semester will continue to be the main platform for policy coordination and we will continue to seek improvements. the capacity of macroeconomic stabilisation in the euro area could also be reinforced. we are presenting three options for such functions to assist countries hit by economic shocks too large to cope with on their own. one option is the european investment protection scheme. in times of strain, public investment is the first item to be cut from the national budget and this can harm future growth. the investment protection scheme could take the form of a financial instrument and i believe could be set within the existing legal framework. other options include the european unemployment reinsurance scheme and a rainy day fund. in any case, it should not lead to permanent transfers among countries nor undermine incentives for sound fiscal policy—making at national level. finally, we need greater democratic accountability and higher transparency, integrating intergovernmental agreements into eu law and ensuring proper democratic oversight. pierre moscovici will be elaborating on this in more detail. i would like to underline that the white paper and reflection paper process is not an intellectual exercise for the commission. we hope to reach a constructive debate across europe in the coming months and to see a broad agreement emerging on the way forward.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, before i present some of the key ideas in addition to what valdis dombrovskis has just said, i would perhaps like to make a political comment. it was clear from the beginning of this process of reflection that, as far as our economic and monetary union was concerned, there was no question of whether we really needed to move forward. this time there could be no question of having several scenarios, one of which would have been the status quo, because we in the commission are convinced, and i welcome this, that we must move forward to complete economic and monetary union. why would you do that? for three reasons: first, because we have economic recovery in the euro area which is there, but which remains too fragile and too unequal. it must be revived and convergence promoted. secondly, because there is a real risk of a two-speed euro area. these consequences would be serious because, yes, it is true that populism has lost some political battles in europe - i am happy about it as a european, as a commissioner and as a frenchman - but it has not lost the war. it always feeds on economic dissatisfaction and inequality. finally, because it seems to me that there is a 'window of political opportunity' that is opening up in europe. there is now a pro-european wind blowing and i think it is time we took advantage of it. i want to stress that what we are proposing today is necessary and desirable for the member states. when i say 'for the member states', i mean all the current member states and i also mean the possible future accession of the others. it is not a question of forcing anyone to join, of course, but it is true that after brexit the only country with a formal opt-out clause will be denmark. all the others are expected to join the euro once the conditions are met. our aim is not to make the accession process compulsory, but to make it attractive, to make everyone want to join the euro. what are our concrete ideas? i am sure that you will agree with me that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is where we must articulate the principles of solidarity and responsibility most precisely. there are several concrete proposals on the table which should make it possible to combine risk reduction and risk sharing, particularly for non-performing loans. there are also other projects on which work is less advanced but which are no less important. this is the case, for example, with the idea of creating a new risk-free asset for the euro area, which could take many forms, but should not be confused with what were called 'euro-bonds'. what i would like to stress above all is the creation of a genuine economic and fiscal union, which we must pursue if we want a lasting and upward convergence of our economies. what does that entail? first, in the short term, we will explore the possibilities for strengthening the 'euro area' dimension of the european semester and creating convergence criteria with financial incentives to achieve them. there are also other possible ways to build up existing capacities in the european budget to help stabilise our economies. but we are convinced that in the medium term we will have to be more ambitious in creating a macroeconomic stabilisation function for the euro area. we believe that such an instrument would have many advantages: it would support the action of national fiscal stabilisers in the event of a crisis and it would allow for a better aggregated fiscal policy at the level of the euro area as a whole, especially when monetary policy reaches its limits. we know that this instrument should not be a permanent transfer mechanism, that it should not encourage moral hazard, but we believe that it should be put in place. of course, we must discuss its form, its use, its financing and its possible links with the european budget or with a reformed european stability mechanism. again, as i said, there are not many scenarios, but there are very clearly many options on our ambitious scheme. we also need to discuss the precise form it will take. this could be a system to protect public investment in the event of a recession, a european unemployment reinsurance mechanism or a rainy day fund - a reserve fund for hard times. the most ambitious interpretation of this idea would be a genuine euro area budget. this has been discussed several times in your assembly. each idea has its own merits. the only one we're excluding, if i may say so, is doing nothing. so let's get this debate started. last but not least, we want to launch a thorough debate today on strengthening the governance of the euro area and its democratic capacity. we believe that a stronger economic and monetary union depends on our member states agreeing to share more responsibilities, to take more decisions together on matters of common interest with a legal framework that is also common. the political integration of the euro area must therefore be further developed. this should be done gradually, and then, in parallel, perhaps new projects should be started. a first step could be - and should be, in our view - the formalisation, by the end of next year, of the already very regular dialogue between the commission and the european parliament on economic policy. we have an arrangement. i think they could be extended to other institutions, starting with the eurogroup, whose members - the finance ministers - will of course remain primarily accountable to their national parliaments. this could lead to an agreement on democratic accountability in the euro area, signed by all actors, in view of the next european parliament election in june 2019. in the longer term, i believe that such an agreement, if it were to be concluded, could be incorporated into the european treaties. it should be added that the integration of the 'budgetary pact' into european law was already decided by the participating member states when they signed the treaty. it should therefore be implemented without delay. another way could be explored, namely the integration of the european stability mechanism into the european system. this would of course be linked to the evolution of the european stability mechanism: some speak of a european monetary fund. what i think is decisive in ensuring that our decisions are taken more in the general interest is democracy. this is why, in my view and in our view, a new balance needs to be created between the commission and the eurogroup with the merger of the roles of commissioner for the euro and president of the eurogroup. we can and must also move forward. we have already made proposals in this respect for a unified external representation of the euro area. this is a continuation of what we said at the time of the phase 1 of the emu debate. we can go even further with the creation of a euro area treasury, which could take on the tasks of budgetary surveillance, coordination and management of the stabilisation function i mentioned earlier. this treasury could in a way bring together existing responsibilities and services, including the european stability mechanism, once it becomes an integral part of the euro area institutional scheme. this treasury could ultimately be placed under the responsibility of a euro-area finance minister. it is not a question of attaching to the appointment or the denomination. mrs mogherini, who chairs the relex working group and is vice-president of the commission, is not the union's foreign minister, it is not a question of supervising the ministers, but it could be a person who could just as well be president of the ad hoc council, of the eurogroup and a commissioner at the same time. finally, the idea of a european monetary fund, which would naturally be built on the european stability mechanism, deserves more debate. that's a quick roundup of the ideas we can come up with. they have varying degrees of ambition and precision. there are many options, but we wanted to build a set that is balanced. the euro is already perceived as a symbol and a guarantee of stability by europeans. our ambition is to make it, beyond that, a vehicle for prosperity. as jacques delors said, 'the euro protects but does not give impetus'. we must complete it in this direction and we believe that only by reducing economic and social disparities in the euro area can we permanently defeat populism, which is still dangerous in our countries. our ambition and intention is basically to say that now is the time to complete the path we started building at the time of the maastricht treaty towards a genuine and complete economic and monetary union with real institutions and with a dimension that is missing: when we are in the eurogroup, our fellow citizens are shocked and frustrated that they do not know what is happening there, behind four walls. the fate of peoples is sometimes decided without anyone, starting with you, ladies and gentlemen of the house, being informed. we need democracy, because there is no political union without democracy. i think we have done a serious job here, which is subject to your debate, and that is the debate we are of course quite willing to conduct with you and even more eager to do so.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, we have had great news lately in the eurozone. for the first time in a while we are feeling more optimistic about the future of our project; that is great news. but before we rush into asking for more new instruments, maybe we should use all our energies to make sure that the current ones work properly. implementation and enforcement are fundamental for our future. a good application of eu law is basic in order to regain the support of our citizens and increase the efficiency of our monetary union. for the future of the euro we need to ensure that all member states comply with the relevant eu economic legislation. take the late payments directive, for example. as you well know, more than one million jobs have been lost in the south of europe in recent years due to the bad practices on payments by central banks and big enterprises, forcing thousands of solvent smes to close. a business is only made when it is cashed. this is the basis of our model. we need to ensure this before talking about more integration. so, in my opinion it is better to concentrate our political capital on the outstanding projects that we have initiated, before beginning new ones. for instance, we have to implement the bail-in legislation in a consistent manner in all member states and all member states already have to implement correctly the deposit guarantee scheme directive. moreover, we have to rethink our current economic governance framework. implementation of the deficit rules is still not satisfactory and many recommendations in the european semester are never implemented by member states. i hope that in the coming years we will do all this and leap forward in our euro integration, but before we think about eurobonds or an economic treasury, a european treasury, we have to ensure that this is properly done. finally, i think that the best way to achieve economic convergence in the eurozone is not through massive fiscal transfer between member states, but by sharing and extending economic and financial best practices among us.
madam president, commissioner and vice-president, the truth is that we all welcome this new report which sets out a medium-term scenario for monetary union. i think that the recommendations they make make make sense; probably some of them should be put forward in time, bearing in mind that this budgetary capacity should be accommodated to the new multiannual scenario, the new multiannual budget, which will have to be discussed in the coming years. in any case, one wonders when we will be able to move from roadmaps to proposals. we were aware of the report by mr van rompuy and mr barroso in 2012. in 2014 we had the report of the five presidents. the commission also published a white paper a few months ago, with various options for the union. and now we have this green paper on monetary union. the debate is fine, but we need concrete legislative proposals from the commission and we also need this parliament to respond to some of those which you have already put forward. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i very much appreciate the question, because closing the monetary union model should allow the capacity for growth of all the economies of the union to be expanded and thus offer new prospects for the future to smes to small and mediumsized enterprises, which form the core of the european economy. we are discussing and have discussed initiatives within the framework of the capital market union to enable small businesses to be financed not just using banking channels, and i believe that this effort to improve the functioning of the union and internal demand is a future bet for the whole of the union.
madam president, what your document puts on the table is that you have no plan for the euro; that you intend to deepen neoliberal labour market reforms and austerity, forgetting that it is these reforms that are tearing the euro zone apart, that are impoverishing its periphery, that are condemning entire generations to poverty, unemployment and precariousness. it is not lack of imagination, it is cowardice in the face of germany which, like the romans, created a desert and called it peace. a desert of relocations, of mass unemployment, of workers forced to dance to the tune of international capital that plays the music with which the commission and governments dance - for example, like that of my country, spain. without transfers, without labour harmonization, without fiscal harmonization, the only future of the euro is its disintegration. because no people can live to be slaves to a coin.
in writing. we all welcome this new report which sets out a medium-term scenario for monetary union. i think the recommendations made make sense. closing the monetary union model should allow the capacity for growth of all the union's economies to be expanded and thus offer new prospects for the future to small and mediumsized enterprises, which form the core of the european economy. some of them should probably be brought forward in time, bearing in mind that this budgetary capacity should be accommodated to the new multiannual scenario, the new multiannual budget, which will have to be discussed in the coming years. in any case, it is necessary to move from plans, from road maps, to proposals. let us remember the report by van rompuy and barroso in 2012. in 2014 the report of the five chairmen was published. the commission also published a white paper a few months ago, with various options for the union. and now we have this reflection paper on monetary union. the debate is fine, but we need concrete legislative proposals from the commission.
mr president, if the european commission finally extends the licence for glyphosate for another decade, do you know what will happen? the citizens will have little doubt that the european union is dominated by the chemical and agro-industrial lobbies and that the health of the people matters very little. the european food safety authority has based its conclusions on studies sponsored by monsanto on the absence of evidence to consider this substance as carcinogenic. you want evidence beyond the studies of the world health organization? ask the residents of neighborhoods like ituzaingó, in the argentine city of córdoba, surrounded by fields grown with gm soybeans and sprayed with glyphosate. we have said it many times: you cannot gamble with the health of our people! if the european commission ignores the precautionary principle once again, it will be clear that the institutions are complicit in this, and they are not serving the citizens but the multinationals. they show that the european union is not at the service of agribusiness, which destroys the environment, endangers our health and perpetuates social inequalities! the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. they banned glyphosate!
mr president, glyphosate is, according to the world health organization, a substance that is potentially carcinogenic, that is to say, harmful to our health. despite this, the european food safety authority has refused to publish studies supporting glyphosate for a year. of course, we in the green group did not stand by and took these very serious facts to the european court of justice. we want the data to be transparent and the experts to be able to work with scientific rigor. and also, to know monsanto's role in this process. meanwhile, almost a million people are already calling for a ban on glyphosate, through a european citizens' initiative. we call on the european commission to use common sense, to put a moratorium on glyphosate and to conduct an independent and transparent investigation. this is basic to a quality democratic debate with which to rethink our agricultural system and protect our health.
mr president, thank you very much, commissioner, for your extensive explanation - almost 20 minutes. many of those who have spoken have neither listened to you nor will they stay until the end; they came with their pre-determined position, their moment of glory, that is to say a political position. and that's what's happening with this. the international agency for research on cancer said that the co-formulant that was mixed with glyphosate was the one that could have carcinogenic effects. if you eliminate the co-formulant from the herbicide, glyphosate would have no carcinogenic problem. you undertook that the scientific analyses provided by efsa would be used to decide whether or not to grant authorization, taking into account the opinion of parliament. i have confidence in the european institutions. i trust you, chief. i trust the agencies that give us food security. so we have reached a point where there are political judgments. there are many things to be clarified, including monsanto. but monsanto has become the "horse of attila" in a position against herbicides in general. so there is a great deal of political manipulation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president we are therefore once again talking about the democratic republic of the congo in this house, to talk again about the political crisis, the humanitarian crisis and the security crisis in the region. my colleagues have already given the figures, and so has the commissioner. the point is, this has a name, it already has a name. it is kabila. we can no longer ignore that there is a situation that is getting worse by the day and that has a lot to do with kabila's no intention of leaving power. so, we have to do something, besides our demonstrations and having tried a political agreement in december 2016, which is not working, although i agree with the commissioner that it is the only space we have to negotiate. maybe keep the sanctions; maybe increase them. to respond to a blockade that is causing enormous suffering in a country that has already been suffering for a long time in many of its regions and that is waiting for a response from the european union. higher penalties are likely to have greater effects.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, thank you, mr stylianides, what you have said is absolutely correct, but let us say it in your name: monusco does not work. monusco is a joke; monusco is a very expensive fraud: 17 000 soldiers who do nothing but be tourist-soldiers. seven kilometers from goma, women are raped when they leave the refugee camp to go to get water, because the soldiers of monusco, although they have the mandate to neutralize the rebels and the armed forces, are tourist-soldiers who patrol the main axes and are quartered , because their national commands forbid them to intervene. the mandate exists; what is a mockery is that they charge and do not comply. that's the first problem. the second problem is that the sanctions that have been put in place are for a small number of people who are engaged in trafficking, which is the logistics of war. if we do not act on the fundamental mass, on the top traffic leaders, we will do absolutely nothing. and secondly, certainly, the congolese government is a government that is based on corruption, on human rights violations. the agreement made by the group of bishops on december 31, 2016 is fundamental. but what is fundamental is that the kabila government does not play again with an element that consists, through parliamentary tricks, in delaying the elections which they already say will be held in the first quarter of 2018, when they had to be held before december 31, 2017. and for that to work, we do not need legality, we need to tighten the screws on the decisive elements: personal and economic sanctions on the assets of these people - who are mainly abroad and in europe too - which will affect them decisively. if we don't politically squeeze the corrupt kabila government, in 2018 we will still have kabila and here, another debate for nothing.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, in january 2015, protests broke out in several congolese cities against an attempt to amend the electoral law. twenty-seven people were killed. the european union was already aware at the time of the serious political crisis in the country, but the commission and the council waited almost two years to act and finally impose targeted measures against certain congolese authorities responsible for the repression of the opposition and serious human rights violations. at the same time, the european union welcomed the national dialogue, an initiative to help organise the presidential elections, but which is one of president kabila's many attempts to postpone the elections. for years, the congolese authorities have violated key provisions of the cotonou agreement. normally this should have triggered formal consultations under article 86 long ago. what are we waiting for? while president kabila has not yet implemented the december agreements, the political, humanitarian and human rights situation is deteriorating. it is time for the european union to engage more actively and strongly in congo in order to avoid further escalation and further destabilisation throughout the region.
mr president, we bring to your attention the worrying situation in the democratic republic of congo. the figures are already available: more than 7 million people, including 4.4 million children, need education, medical services, assistance and clean water; almost 6 million have food problems and there are many internally and externally displaced people because of the conflict situation. we are therefore facing a situation of the utmost humanitarian urgency and - as the commissioner has rightly said - a situation in which human rights are being violated on a daily basis. conflict is daily, there is torture, there are kidnappings, there are rapes, there are sexual rapes and there is extreme violence from all sectors. the disproportionate action of the armed forces of the democratic republic of the congo itself is a matter of great concern. the country is on the verge of elections. the european union must press for dialogue so that a democratically legitimated government can be established in the democratic republic of the congo as soon as possible. we cannot be - and i know we will not be - mere observers in a situation where human rights are violated every day and where we, the european union, want to be the ones to represent the values of peace and security. we therefore condemn all these violations and are particularly concerned about the violence and the disproportionate use of it by the state bodies themselves. the lack of freedom of expression also occurs in rwanda. we had a resolution here calling for the release of victoire ingabire. so too for the democratic republic of congo. and it is necessary to stress the need to stabilize the un mission so that it can really exercise its mandate and humanitarian aid can reach all areas. in short, we must investigate all crimes to the end, identify those responsible and bring the democratic republic of congo to a genuine democratic government.
mr president, this resolution is the firm voice of this parliament which joins the cries of pain of so many women and girls who have been raped, children used as soldiers and displaced persons fleeing the violence that has been affecting the democratic republic of congo for more than twenty years. the hope of the political agreement signed between kabila and the opposition has been short-lived. the agreement is not moving forward; what is moving forward is the fear of a population fleeing violence, provoked by those who should avoid it. we are talking about war crimes, committed by those who take children away from their families to use them as soldiers. we're also talking about thousands of women and girls being raped. congo is known as the rape capital of the world. many mothers spend their nights awake to save their daughters from the rapists who will scar them for the rest of their lives. no one defends the rights of victims because widespread corruption and difficult access to justice mean that mothers, like the one of a little girl who was raped, end up accused of having given their daughter to the rapists. i know of much more atrocious testimonies, but it would take an hour, not a minute, to quote them. in defence of a dying population, the european union must keep up the pressure. those of us who are fortunate enough to live in freedom must fight for those who, like in the congo, live in slavery to fear. condemnation, commissioner, is necessary, but action and sanctions are even more so.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food aid is distributed in a fair and equitable manner. two and a half million children suffer from acute malnutrition. easily preventable diseases are wiping out the population, cholera is rampant, and the situation is completely hopeless for children. today yemen is the country in the world with the most lives in danger and yet, yemen is not mentioned. the question is why don't the european news outlets open with news about yemen. that is why the socialist group has wanted to bring this debate to this house. because it was time we talked about yemen. a country that is struggling between total catastrophe and tragedy, something that is perfectly avoidable, because catastrophe and tragedy in yemen are done by the hand of the human being. they don't come from nature. the country is caught in the interests of regional powers who use yemen as a board for their own geopolitical game, which is getting more complicated every day. it's a huge failure of international diplomacy and will be a great shame in the history books. if we do not react urgently, it will also be our responsibility. we want the european union to be more active and more influential in finding a solution to this tragedy. and we want to encourage dialogue within the day, also to rebuild trust between the parties. there are few actors in the world with the capacity of the european union to be able to try to resolve the terrible situation that this country is going through, and we must all commit ourselves to action.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, yemen is a dustbin and we now know that there are 18.8 million people over 70% of the population in need of humanitarian aid; 6.8 million are suffering from hunger and 10 million children, according to unicef, are in need of humanitarian aid. two years of civil war have already passed, with thousands of dead, wounded or maimed, two million displaced, attacks on civilians and humanitarian workers, rape, the use of child soldiers and a long list of crimes that should be investigated independently. the only possible solution is dialogue, a dialogue between the parties which must be fostered by the united nations. but there's no double standard here. and when i say that, i am referring primarily to the role of the european union. we condemn the situation in yemen these days, and we know that countries such as the united kingdom, spain, france, italy and germany are still selling arms to saudi arabia. let alone the united states, which is behind - and we all know it - indiscriminate attacks on the civilian population of yemen. the end of hostilities will not come with unilateral interventions, with the continuation of arms sales or with the instrumentalization of religious differences to instigate political crises and sectarian wars that feed rather spurious interests, it must be said. it can only be achieved by strengthening diplomacy and multilateralism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the the truth is that there are no words to describe the situation that is being experienced in yemen. the figures are terrible: thousands of dead and, especially, the situation of children. two million children displaced; 500,000 malnourished children, used as child soldiers. it's a really horrible situation, complicated, plus, with a cholera pandemic. what can we as the european parliament do about this situation? i believe that, apart from adopting resolutions, we must - as the commissioner said - encourage action by the european union, support the efforts of the special envoy of the un secretary-general and alleviate the suffering of the parties. but it is important that we also address the causes of the conflict and, above all, call for an end to the violence, also monitored by the united nations, and clearly support those efforts in favour of peace. and, madam president, we should not forget the impunity in the grave human rights violations that are taking place in yemen. and i would like to remind you of the importance for all of us of a safe, stable and peaceful yemen, precisely in order to combat violence and extremism in the region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr mcallister, for his work in preparing this report, which welcomes serbia's willingness to join the european union and, above all, to express this constructive spirit in the negotiating process as a firm expression of political will. i think there are two very clear parts to the report. one of them highlights the efforts and progress made by serbia in the context of economic policy. we have followed your speech in belgrade just a few days ago, commissioner, on judicial and police cooperation and also on relations with third countries - in the case of albania - and also on the way ahead, particularly as regards freedom of expression and the fight against political corruption. i would like to dwell, mr president, on one point, and that is the one concerning serbia's rapprochement with the common foreign and security policy and relations with russia at a time when the president of serbia, in his inaugural speech, said that they had three fundamental priorities, one of which was clearly to put his country on the path to the european union, then to contribute to regional stability and, above all, to strengthen its relations with china and russia. today the european commission adopted its document on defence policy and we had the german minister for defence in the committee on foreign affairs. that is why, mr president, i think it is particularly relevant, in this report, that the rapporteur, mr mcallister, calls for not only progress in the negotiating chapters - and we all welcome this - but also for alignment of the policy with the european union's foreign and security policy. i think this is a key fact of the dossier. we are talking about politics and that is why, mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again on his report and draw attention to this important aspect of his work.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president we have not changed our position on the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo, an artificial state created under the cover of military intervention, outside international law and the united nations, with the support, moreover, of groups which have seriously violated human rights. it is not a trifle to recall that the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity guaranteed by the helsinki act are being violated and that there is a security council resolution, 1244, which cannot be regarded as a unilateral act. today, 82 united nations countries, including five eu countries, do not recognize this unilateral declaration of independence. the union cannot use international law as a tailor-made suit. kosovo's membership of international bodies and organizations is not the way to the solution. the solution is to accompany the dialogue between the two parties within the framework of international law.
mr president, i was thinking of talking about the externalisation of immigration and asylum controls, a process which dilutes responsibilities in favour of an imprecise legal framework and weak or no democratic controls, a process which has irresponsible consequences. but i have listened carefully to mr juncker and, although i do not expect a change in policy, i would urge him to be careful about terminology. what message do we send to society when we insist on the idea of better defending our borders? we are referring, without quoting it, to a danger we must defend ourselves against, an enemy; and, ladies and gentlemen, that enemy is people who simply need, seek and deserve a future for their children. this terminology is not innocent, because it feeds xenophobic and far-right messages and positions. ladies and gentlemen, let us look at the central mediterranean, please: far more people are dying than we think and very serious things are happening, such as maydays launched by ngos twelve miles off the libyan coast which are not being answered or attended to by european ships.
mr president, i would like to begin by remembering the victims of the recent attacks in england, especially the young spaniard ignacio echeverría, who died helping the police while fighting with his skateboard. we share the same principles. that's why they're attacking us, not because of our passport. they don't attack us because of our borders but because we share the same values. and we share them. values are what bind us together. in the recent attacks in england, the victims were not only from the uk. they were from australia, too. they were also from canada, from france. they were from spain, too. we are not alone in the face of terrorism. no country in the european union can face the challenges of globalisation alone. no one is smarter or better than the others to find the solutions for themselves, without all collaborating against what is attacking us, against what awaits us in the future. that's why brexit is a step backwards. brexit is walking on your back. and yesterday we celebrated the anniversary of the erasmus programme, which is the opposite of brexit: four million young europeans moving 'two hundred thousand britons through the european union' and practically the same number of young people from the rest of the european union through the united kingdom, including my daughter maria; almost a million children born of erasmus, children who have four mother tongues, the first generation of europeans in history. the erasmus programme shows that europe is made of our differences. our difference and our tolerance is our advantage. that's why, between erasmus and brexit, we always choose erasmus, because erasmus means generosity, and brexit means selfishness.
i think it is important to stress that the prospects for the european union are more positive, more optimistic than they were a few years ago: there is economic growth, there is job creation and the political defeat of populism. i think it's important to highlight this horizon. secondly, i would like to remind you that just yesterday the french president, mr macron, announced his favourable position to the introduction of a financial transaction tax in the european union. i think that is an idea we should consider, because we need a financial resource of our own for the european union, to deal with so many problems that we have ahead of us. we have, of course, a financial need in the area of migration; we need funding for security and defence against terrorism because, for the first time in the history of the european union, internal security depends on external security; and we have important needs to put the social pillar into action or to put climate change into action, as mr macron proposed. we're going in that direction, gentlemen.
mr president, i have to say... by wire. security and counter-terrorism. a tribute to echevarria. ignacio echevarría, a spanish hero who fell in a savage act of terrorism in london, defending with dignity the contribution of european citizens to the cause of european values. the defense. it is not a question of more spending, but of coordination and solidarity between the member states. pooling of defensive resources. it would make a phenomenal change and difference in the defence capability of the european union as a whole. migration routes. i heard they're under control. and are the grossly non-compliant member states under control? not only infringement procedures, but also, and above all, sanctions. and finally, climate change. the european union as a whole is speaking out against president trump's populist and foolish decision to withdraw the united states from the cop 21 agreements, ignoring the fate of 60,000 victims of climate change each year and the 500 million people expected to be displaced over the next 30 years as a result of drought, desertification and sea level rise.
in writing. although the economic and job creation outlook for the european union is more positive and optimistic than it was a few years ago and populism is being defeated politically, concerns about migration and security and defence against terrorism are growing. for the first time in the history of the union, internal security is dependent on external security and the pooling of defence resources and greater coordination are needed more than ever. in addition, in the area of immigration, it is necessary to tackle the enormous challenges in solidarity and to move from infringement procedures to sanctions for those member states which do not comply with their commitments to the distribution of refugees. in relation to climate change and trump's decision to withdraw the united states from the agreements of cop 21, we must assume global leadership not only on environmental issues, but also on trade and social rights. finally, the member states concerned must give the final impetus needed to approve the financial transaction tax as a new public resource to deal with all these emergencies.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i also thank president heine for her testimony and inspiration. us president donald trump has demonstrated his administration's inability to engage in leadership in the fight against climate change. the european union, which had already led the negotiations prior to the paris agreement, must grow up and take the lead in leading this transition to a low-carbon economy. today, 20% of the union's budget is allocated to actions to combat climate change. we are in the midst of upgrading the emissions trading market and establishing a circular economy, and we must do even more. and we need a sustainable industrial policy with the same ambition in its three pillars: economic, job creation, social and environmental. and in this connection - and i will end by asking you, commissioner - what measures has the commission taken or is it planning to take to protect the european economy, european industry and its jobs from the very real possibility of environmental dumping by the united states?
madam president, trump has made good on his threat. the united states, its administration - not the country - will not be an ally in the fight against climate change, but this is not the only threat. on the one hand, the denialism of people like trump. on the other hand, lack of ambition. i appreciate the commission's defence of the paris agreement, but good words cannot hide the lack of ambition, for example, in the clean energy package. if we want the paris agreement to be more than a bad memory of what could have been and was not, it is time to make a big commitment and take a giant leap forward in european objectives. for example, in the field of renewable energy, by increasing ambition and making the targets binding on member states. i want to see this house as it has been before: with ambition, with commitment, with long lights.
member of the commission. – madam president, all the house has listened to the passionate speech of the president of the marshall islands calling on us for ambition and action. the best answer we can give is, first of all, to confirm that we will not renegotiate the paris agreement and that we will make all the efforts needed to provide the political momentum behind the paris implementation. the implementation of the paris agreement domestically requires that this house gives full support in moving ahead on making the european union’s commitment a reality. the european union is showing the world the way with our cutting-edge climate policy and there is no stronger statement we can make than swift progress on the ets, the effort-sharing regulation, the land-use legislation as well as on the clean energy for all european package. when we ratified the paris agreement in record time this house showed its commitment to climate action and we need to provide the same spirit now, more than ever. internationally we will have to implement the paris agreement by working closely with all our allies with ambition and determination. and as ms van brempt and some others clearly stated, we have to keep working with the united states, which is much more than the federal government. in the united states the decision to withdraw also strengthened the resolve of those who care for the future of the planet and who understand the economic opportunities of a low-carbon transition. hundreds of united states mayors, governors, state attorneys-general, ceos and others pledged to the united nations to achieve and eventually exceed america’s commitment to the paris agreement in a declaration entitled ‘we are still in’ and they will submit a societal nationally determined contribution to the united nations, aggregating action by different stakeholders and building upon the global covenant of mayors for climate and energy. the states of california, washington and new york founded the united states climate alliance, now joined by nine other states. so it is clear that we will continue to have great partners within the united states even if the federal government decides to stay on the side of the road. we will also step up our climate diplomacy. climate action was a key topic of the european union-china summit on 2 june and our cooperation on the ground with china is stepping up a gear. in september the european union will host a major ministerial gathering with ministers here from china and minister mckenna from canada to advance in the implementation of paris and accelerate their transition. finally, my last remark to his house is that the world’s reaction to president trump’s action proved that the european union is on the right side of history. our task ahead is clear. let’s keep our resolve.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i thank everyone for their interventions, and despite the us decision to leave, i am encouraged by their support for full implementation of the paris agreement and our continuous leadership at international level. we will continue our work on this and on the current climate legislative proposals. i thank you all very much.
in writing. the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change. following the announcement of the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement, the european union must lead the process and redouble its efforts as a region to follow. we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c. we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries. in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change. to this end, we socialists want to maintain the objective of mobilising 100 000 million dollars a year by 2020 and extend this measure until 2025.
in writing. the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change. following the announcement of the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement, the european union must lead the process and redouble its efforts as a region to follow. we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c. we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries. in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change. to this end, we socialists want to maintain the objective of mobilising 100 000 million dollars a year by 2020 and extend this measure until 2025.
in writing. the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change. following the announcement of the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement, the european union must lead the process and redouble its efforts as a region to follow. we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c. we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries. in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change. to this end, we socialists want to maintain the objective of mobilising 100 000 million dollars a year by 2020 and extend this measure until 2025.
in writing. the spanish socialists are in favour of reducing greenhouse gas emissions as the first urgent measure to be taken to mitigate the devastating effects of climate change. following the announcement of the united states' withdrawal from the paris agreement, the european union must lead the process and redouble its efforts as a region to follow. we socialists want to prevent the increase in the global average temperature from exceeding 2 °c above pre-industrial levels and we will advocate making additional efforts to ensure that global warming does not exceed 1.5 °c. we also support the commitment of the eu and its member states to continue with the paris agreement, recognising the need for global emissions to peak as soon as possible and assuming that this task will take longer in developing countries. in this regard, we support contributions to the green climate fund, which aims to help developing countries reduce their emissions and increase resilience to the consequences of climate change. to this end, we socialists want to maintain the objective of mobilising 100 000 million dollars a year by 2020 and extend this measure until 2025.
mr president, i abstained on this report because it is not possible to prevent and end the gender gap in pensions if the root causes that are helping to increase it are not tackled, such as the reforms you are proposing to the commission to weaken public pension systems against the second and third pillars, the increase in the retirement age and the years of service required, or the updating of the pension by linking it to life expectancy and not to the cpi. we had a golden opportunity with this report. however, the rapporteur, mrs le grip, decided to reject a large part of the opinion of the committee on employment, which referred to the structural causes of employment discrimination against women, whose effects are multiplied by the age of retirement. on the contrary, instead of analysing these structural causes, mrs le grip's report places increasing emphasis on the importance of second and third pillar pensions or makes negative references such as, for example, that women live longer and therefore more is spent on them. that is why i abstained and i think that there are fundamental elements which are not in the report.
mr president, i have to say... i think it is very important that we have voted on this report today, because it really touches on one of the most unacceptable subjects in our working world and in our social world. the fact that in the 21st century there is a 40% difference in pensions between men and women is simply indecent. but the root of this problem is largely in wages. i mean, the serious thing is that this gap is not going to be resolved in a short time if the wages between men and women are not equal. and, unfortunately, this is not the case. the difference in pay between men and women is still, on average, about 25%, and this means that careers in the insurance sector are burdened by this difference. i think the report is good. it could have been better. the socialist group has tabled further amendments. some of them haven't been approved. however, it is a step forward that we want to highlight.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak today in this timely topical debate. this is indeed a time of deep reflection for all of us on the future of the eu. i am happy to be here today to listen to your views. the title of this debate paints the picture of an eu which appeals to us all, one in which our values are placed at centre stage. one with effective and democratic institutions, one in which we pursue our genuine goal of improving the life and prosperity of our citizens, not just for the lucky few but across all of our society. this description is not such a far cry from the eu we have today and it certainly is in line with the eu’s clear ambitions. however, until only a few months ago, the eu’s efforts in this regard were largely ignored or discredited, either because the eu was perceived as doing too little or because it was seen as doing too much. but in recent months there seems to have been a shift in perception of the eu: rather than being considered as the source of many of our woes, the eu is seen as part of the solution. we are seeing some positive signs of renewed trust and more support for the eu. this may be because as the world around us changes, the alternative options to the eu are slowly losing their shine. we may start realising that populist rhetoric oversimplifies very complex issues and is beginning to show its limitations. we may also be recognising that working together on global challenges like trade, climate and terrorism is preferable to going it alone. perhaps most importantly, the more we feel our values come under attack, the stronger our wish to uphold them. this should serve to fuel our prospects and indeed give us an impetus to work even more eagerly towards our goals. however, only with a common vision of the eu’s future can we collectively pursue these common goals. in examining what future path to take, the eu cannot impose its vision on its citizens. it cannot come up with revolutionary designs if it does not have their support and backing. the eu needs to involve them in this debate. they need to feel that they are being heard and that their views matter. that is why the council very much welcomes the commission’s white paper process. it is a remarkable effort to steer an honest reflection and prompt a broad debate. i also commend you, the european parliament, for your constant efforts to ensure that the views of citizens are safeguarded and upheld. i understand that, along with the commission, you will be hosting a series of future of europe debates across europe. as for the council and the european council, as you know, leaders already began an honest reflection exercise after the uk referendum vote to leave the eu. at their informal meeting in bratislava last september, leaders set out a concrete roadmap with specific measures to address the most pressing concerns for citizens. this included tackling as a matter of urgency issues relating to migration, terrorism and economic and social insecurity. as work progressed on that front, the 60th anniversary of the rome treaties in march this year was another occasion to reflect on our common future. the rome agenda that resulted from this is a clear pledge to pursue our most important objectives over the next ten years. the european council has since then framed its work across these main priorities. it has focused largely on delivering tangible results and delivering on its promises. looking forward in relation to the white paper process, the council is taking careful note of the commission’s follow-up papers and is ensuring that they provide a valuable contribution to our discussions. so for instance the white paper on globalisation provides perspectives for a debate on trade or on globalisation at the next european council. i would just like to say one word on the concrete result of this process. reflecting on the future of europe is a drawn-out process. it requires time and building trust, neither of which can be rapidly glossed over. we do not want to run the risk of having to offer results prematurely and thus falling short of expectations. the council and the european council will continue to focus on achieving concrete results, demonstrating that added value of the eu in very practical terms. in that spirit, the future of europe debates will provide further impetus for the council to deliver on various key policies, rather than develop a new theoretical frame.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to use the three minutes allotted to me to reflect on what mrs in 't veld said in her introduction because i believe she touched upon the issue of fundamental values in a very concise and precise way. she also dismissed the solutions offered by nationalists, extremists and xenophobes, but then the question remains: why do so many europeans still feel attracted to these political movements? i maintain that these political movements have assured quite strong support in the european union and will probably continue to get quite strong support unless we address the reasons why they feel attracted to these movements. i believe many of our citizens are worried because they fear a loss of position. this is the first generation that fears that their children might be in a worse position than they are. they are worried because of the threat of jihadist terrorism and see that some people want to attack our freedoms and take away our identities. they are worried because they see global developments in terms of peace and security, where they do not feel empowered enough to stand up for their values and their way of life. so i think that, if we want to rekindle the feeling for our fundamental values, we need to do something about these fears, and the commission’s starting point is that we can only do something about these fears if we stand together as europeans. so rekindling our values starts with advocating european approaches to european problems, european approaches to global problems, and with making clear to our citizens that we can only do this if we stick together. this is difficult at a time where identity politics roam across europe. this is difficult at a time when the other is presented as an adversary, and as somebody who is out there to take away what you have. if we redefine the european union only in terms of an internal market or a common currency and present these, or the cutting of red tape or whatever you want, as the goals of our cooperation – these are important instruments, but they only have meaning if they are based on our common values, and we do not talk enough about these values. the interesting thing is that the people who mrs in 't veld was, rightly, attacking because of their lack of solutions and the, to say the least, wobbly morality of their propositions, do have a moral approach to it. they start from their values. we should mirror that by starting from our values, the values that have made europe great: democracy, the rule of law and full respect for human rights. this is the tripod upon which our european cooperation is built, and modernising that in the fourth industrial revolution to show that we can create a society where diversity creates more ambition with people, creates more opportunity for people, and recreates the economy in the fourth industrial revolution, is the way forward for europe. but it will only happen if it is done on the basis of our values. that is the basis for the white paper the commission has written. that is the basis for all the analyses we have written, and we put them on the table as a starting point for debate with parliament, but also with the member states in the hope that the members of the council will use the paper to have a debate in their member states about where europe needs to go in the future. let me end on this. we have seen a sort of moment of awakening of a new generation in europe. we saw it in the british election the other day, we have seen it in the french election in many ways, and we see it in the women’s marches in the united states and across europe. why? because we understand now that, although our values are clear and eternal and cannot be questioned, they can be destroyed. the fact that we have now discovered is that, although our values are clear and are the basis of our cooperation, we now see that across the world these values are not unbreakable but need maintenance and that, if you want these values to survive, you need to stand up for them. you need to speak out for them. that is what i saw in recent elections. this is no longer about left or right. this is about whether you choose an open society with room for everyone, where no one is left behind, or you fall into the trap of thinking that your brother is your enemy. europe should be for an open society where everybody counts and no one is left behind.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, a little over 60 years ago, on 25 march 1957, europeans signed the treaty of rome and planted the seeds of the union. it has undoubtedly been the stage of greater peace, prosperity and stability as it has eliminated all the divisions and violence of the past. the words of robert schuman, when he said that europe would not be built all at once or by a joint effort, but would be built little by little, with small achievements that would cultivate the value of solidarity, are still valid. at that time, the founding fathers were clear about their objective: they had no plans to build europe, but they had a very powerful rearview mirror with which they showed us who the horsemen of the european apocalypse were: nationalism, genocide, racism, xenophobia, wars, totalitarianism. today, europe has changed; it has aged. we're taking in more people, but we're also firing others. the labour market has the face of unemployment, which is very worrying. there are challenges like immigration, security, energy, the economy, defense... it is a complex europe and a europe full of contrasts; we are faced with the challenge of the richness of diversity and the challenge of social integration. and today the challenge is to be united and the challenge is to give the values of democracy, freedom and progress real content, that content which the fathers of europe gave them. but that means believing it, not just saying it. it must be done in words and deeds.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am a bit optimistic, as is mrs in 't veld, because nationalists and populists are no longer new and we are beginning to understand their vulnerabilities and the strengths of the beacon of reasonable utopia that we built after the second world war. in a globalised world, in a world of turmoil, there is so much fog that at times it seems that the european beacon is not finished. well, it's time to make true the first thing you've said: those values. and for that we have to apply them with courage, with integrity - so that we are created by the citizens - and with consistency between what we say and what we do. otherwise we will not be able to bring into the passion we need for europe all those young people who are telling us that they want a future, that they want opportunities and whom we have failed in recent years. we need them, especially young people, we need them to have jobs, equal opportunities and a passion for europe, just like ourselves. and integrity is a good thing.
mr president, i have to say... this european union is based on neoliberal principles, deficit control, liberalisation of services, a perverse european bank, undemocratic institutions and, above all, it was built with a clear objective: the common market. this is not changed by four reforms, a little make-up or a white paper, and even less by the same ones that have led to brexit, the rise of the far right or whose policies have increased inequality. the european union of ceta, ttip, the euro, borders against migrants, maastricht cannot respond to the needs of the majority. but that does not mean that we want to break with europe, rather the opposite. you want this european union of multinationals; we want to build a europe for the working classes and we want to build it with the workers of germany, france, greece, portugal - all together.
in writing. refound europe yes, but we cannot allow it to play with words. you're not going to rebuild anything. what they propose, every now and then, is to continue to deepen this neoliberal and unsolidarist european union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the re-founding of a europe based on values and democratic institutions means building a new europe, starting with respect for the right of peoples to decide, putting human rights before the interests of the 'free market' and capital and abandoning the neoliberal agenda. to do this, they must withdraw the proposals contained in the 'five presidents' document, including the one to move towards economic and monetary union. they must also put an end to the plans for a defence union, which will use billions of euros from the budgets of both the european union and the member states to build a military apparatus to continue to impose the interests of this neoliberal european union by force, to the detriment of employment policies, social policies and the maintenance of public services.
mr president, i have to say... the panama papers have not only put malta in question. i want to start by remembering that there are many countries, networks, banks, tax advisors, lawyers who are involved in the panama papers. it is important, however, to remember that this country, malta, is firmly committed to working for transparency and fair cooperation in the fight against tax evasion. this is what we think of you, mr. muscat. we have full confidence in your work. we respect him, we congratulate him on his success and we hope that malta will indeed be one of the leading countries in this fight for tax justice and the fight against tax havens. but, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about malta alone. because i want to remind you that 40,000 people connected with the european union have come across the panama papers and olaf has decided to investigate several people. for example, the former commissioner kroes or, for example, the present commissioner cañete, for his links with the panama papers. let's get this straight. we must not only blame malta, but demand that malta sets an example and demand a full investigation of those responsible. because, of course, the commission and the european union must also give their work sufficient credibility and not only accuse one country, but put us all at the forefront of a struggle that we must wage together.
mr president, i have to say... we were discussing here a moment ago, in this plenary of the european parliament, a europe based on values, which we miss when we see the failures on immigration, when we see the lack of unity to deal with the populist leader donald trump when he retreats from climate change with a humanitarian diplomacy that gives a humanitarian response to the crisis, but also when we fight against tax evasion and against tax fraud. prime minister muscat: of course, we welcome your commitment. but, commissioner moscovici, it is very important that the work of the committee of inquiry into money laundering and tax evasion and avoidance should not be focused on nevada or hong kong, but on tax inequality here in the european union, within the european union. because tax rulings, the role of lawyers, tax advisers and banks are crying out for an effort at tax harmonization in europe and from europe. the committee of inquiry must therefore pave the way for new legislation to close the loopholes, the loopholes and the many tricks that allow fraudsters to get away with it.
member of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for inviting me and the commission to this debate, which has given me the opportunity to recall all that the commission and the union have done to make taxation more transparent, more efficient and fairer in the european union. the commission is, of course, aware of the links between the 'panama papers' and malta, which are the subject of judicial investigations in malta. the reason why we did not take a position is very simple, because the commission cannot comment on ongoing investigations. there is a principle that exists in all our democracies: that of the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary, which we obviously cannot call into question. mr giegold said that a letter was sent to the commission today. the commission will examine and respond to the request. i just want to emphasize three points. the first is that several of you have explained to us that we have a restrictive view of tax havens when we consider that there are no tax havens in the european union. this does not mean that we are unaware of the fact that there may be problems and harmful practices in the european union which are being investigated, but a tax haven is another matter if we are to reason properly. why would you do that? a tax haven is a country that does not respect international standards and, moreover, the rules on transparency and the fight against tax evasion that are now enshrined in european law. i spoke of european leadership because, thanks to the determined action we are taking, european law goes far beyond international standards. all european countries have adopted these rules of law. they are all implementing them and showing that they have the need and the will to meet these commitments. there have also been several mechanisms, which i will call soft law, such as the introduction of a code of conduct on harmful tax practices. strong action is therefore absolutely necessary to combat unfair tax practices in the union. but to call a particular member state a tax haven is not, in my view, an intellectually satisfactory or rigorous approach. the commission will therefore not propose it. as regards the fight against money laundering, the commission considers that transparency and access to information on beneciaries are very important in the fight against money laundering and tax evasion and fraud. the commission defends its proposal because we consider it to be proportionate and balanced between, on the one hand, the need to equip the authorities with the necessary instruments to combat tax fraud and money laundering and, on the other hand, efficiency, which is also indispensable. finally, i am replying to mr ferber, who is displaying the letters we can send him. i hope to send others who will be equally visible and equally effective. on requests for access to documents, the commission, through its different directorates-general, in particular dg taxud, dg just and dg fisma, is working hard - i also tell president langen - to respond to the legitimate requests of the pana committee (the committee of inquiry into allegations of breaches and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud) for access to documents. mr president, you can testify that we have already handed over hundreds of documents to this committee, with which i am happy to be able to work under the best conditions. i would like to mention two things in particular. at this stage, more than 850 documents have been uploaded to the open internet platform under the pana commission. in addition, no less than 697 other confidential documents (including 375 for dg taxud, for which i am responsible) were provided to the pana committee in a secure reading room. it will be understood that a number of personal information about taxpayers must also be respected. in any case, it is not for us to make them public. but i want this transparency action to be carried out to the end, and you know very well - i am speaking to members of the european parliament here - that if there are shortcomings here or there, it is not the commission's fault, but rather that of the member states, which must also cooperate. that is what i wanted to say in the context of this debate, which i consider important. this debate must not avoid any situation. at the same time it must respect the separation of powers and must do justice to the member states and their action to incorporate new european regulations into their own national law. it must also continue its vigorous and unwavering fight against tax fraud and evasion. we have achieved extremely important results in recent years. in fact, many of the cases we are talking about are cases arising from shortcomings or gaps in previous legislation. they could not reproduce in the future. this is not a reason not to consider that we must go all the way with the investigations, but it is a reason for the commission to continue its legislative action in this matter all the way and to ask the member states not to weaken, not to fail and to stand by us in these advances which your parliament, i know, supports and promotes with us, and even more ardently than us.
prime minister of malta. – mr president, i expect some of you would be expecting me to be angry after this debate. actually i am not: i am very happy to be here; i consider this as a natural second home for me, and i do understand the spirit of this debate. i do understand the political narrative of it all. so allow me to reply in kind and to be tongue and cheek in my replies and very candid and very open in the way i try to address the concerns that you have put forward. i do understand, as a politician, the timing of the debate, and i do appreciate that a majority in this house did not agree to the fact that such a debate takes place during an electoral campaign. this is a much more serene setting for such a debate. i welcome, first of all, mr weber’s wishes. i thank him for his contribution to our campaign back in malta. he said that the only politicians mentioned in the panama papers were maltese – i am sorry, it is not true. we have a commissioner from the epp family who is mentioned in those papers – his own family. no one is saying anything about that. (mr langen, i have not interrupted you: please listen to me, hear me out.) no one said anything about that, so i do believe that that was the first incorrect fact. but, really and truly, there are three ways in which this debate has gone: there is the debate on the panama papers, there is the debate on the issue of taxation, and there is then an outright lie that has been said. let’s start with the debate on the panama papers, with many members asking why there is not an investigation. i think ms metsola said quite clearly: there are four investigations taking place in court by independent judges, and they will decide whether there is room for prosecution. there already has been a commitment that, if there is such room for prosecution, resignations would be in order. i am amazed that this basic fact was not taken into consideration. there are four independent judicial investigations taking place. that is the most basic fact that, i am sorry, quite a number of members got wrong. i do believe the problem is that most of the time, members and colleagues are sourcing their facts simply from the social media and not trying to dig little bit deeper to try to ascertain the veracity of fact. secondly, i do believe, and i do bring to your attention, the fact that some of the conclusions that you were referring to were really and truly denied by the same independent institutions that are being quoted, including the financial intelligence analysis unit. i must say that i will keep on mentioning a number of facts that i think need to be ascertained. let me start with our tax system. malta’s imputation tax system is quite unique in europe, that’s true. it has not been invented or put in during the past 4 or 10 years. it has been there since world war ii. it has been scrutinised by the commission prior to our joining the european union more than 11 years ago. it is oecd-compliant. some might not like it; some might say it is competitive. the fact is that it has undergone all levels of scrutiny by all organisations. i also believe that there are two ways in which we can go on the taxation element. on one i agree with this house, and i will show how, in practice, we as a government and also as a presidency have gone to lengths not only not to obstruct the advancement of dossiers in this area but actually to conclude dossiers that are quite thorny: atad ii – the anti-tax avoidance directive, the second recast; beps – the erosion of profits, profit shifting. these are all issues that have been concluded or where progress has been achieved under the maltese presidency. i think that is a fact that should be taken into consideration. i must also stress the fact that our government and also as a whole, we are part of the oecd exchange of information. some mentioned the ‘malta files’. there is nothing secret. the people who have companies back at home are publicly available on the internet. the only exercise that was made was a consolidation of elements where, instead of searching a company, one searches a name. i invite you to take a look at the tax justice network’s financial secrecy index. you will find at least five member states – and not necessarily the usual suspects – who are ranked lower than malta when it comes to secrecy and transparency. we have done away with banking secrecy more than a decade and a half ago. we are not the last people to come to join this fight against avoidance and evasion. the point where we disagree is where member states should not be let and left to decide their own tax levels. that is something that i totally disagree with the majority of this house about. i might remain in a minority on this, but that is something that i believe is fundamental and is also fundamental for a number of other member states, irrespective of the composition of our economy. it is not true that our economy is dependent on financial services: that shows a lack of knowledge about the structure of the smallest member state’s economy. maybe it is not too much important for some of you over here, but if you look at the basic numbers, our main exports are microchips. in almost all your mobile phones, you will find a microchip proudly made in malta. we are not a mailbox economy; we are an economy that produces value added. trying to put a caricature of all this – i can accept it in a tabloid, but really and truly, i expect a more informed debate in such a house. let me move on to some other issues. i said the independence of institutions, but also the way in which we source our information and the way in which we direct debates. yes, quite a number of you relied on reports that were on media. none of you – i am surprised – referred to the moneyval reports. i believe that we all trust moneyval. it is an institution that is not political. it is an institution that sees each and every jurisdiction, makes recommendations and is very tough. moneyval has a positive report about our country. fsap – let’s refer to the facts. it is not about who tweets and who posts on the internet. it is about experts telling us what to do in the same way that greco, the council of europe, told us: ‘you guys don’t have a system of party financing, we don’t know who is financing your political parties’. guess what? we introduced the system. guess what? we are now totally compliant with the system and we are implementing it. it is not a law just there for the sake of being there. unfortunately the opposition does not like it, but fortunately enough we are all compliant with it. which brings me to some other points which i would like to make, which is really the third point, which some of you have referred to. i am really sorry that mr langen is no longer here, or at least i do not see him. some people in this house have referred to a story – a totally outright lie – that has been directed against me, my wife and my family, namely that i have some sort of structure – account, funds – that i took from some contract: this is an outright lie. whenever i ask someone to tell me the source of all this, everyone points at the same blog and report, which is unsubstantiated. and you know what? we respect so much the rule of law that, as prime minister, i went to court and i asked the court – an independent institution, where i have already as prime minister divested myself of the right enjoyed by my predecessors to nominate people to the bench (but now people come to the bench after being vetted by independent lawyers and prosecutors) – to appoint a magistrate to investigate these allegations. i said more than that; i said that, not only if there is some evidence that is put forward but if there is a shred of truth, i will immediately resign. i put myself on the line, for the simple reason i know it is totally untrue. those who made the allegations, i asked them: ‘would you want to pledge your political career if what you are saying is false?’ no, they did not take up the challenge. maltese people judged also based on this fact. what politician would pledge his whole career totally on one statement, on one assertion? i do not even bat an eyelid doing that, because i know i am saying the truth. i marvel at the idea that some extremely knowledgeable members of this house have taken this thing, this fake news, and repeated it here just like that. so my point to mr langen and to some colleagues is: why aren’t you coming to the pana committee?’ i said about a month, a month and a half ago, i am coming to the pana committee. if you do not get this basic fact right, i am sorry, please check your press reviews or fire the people who are making them for you. i said i would be coming. i said i would be coming once the judge comes out with the independent investigation – one of the four independent investigations – to be able to present to the pana committee not what the prime minister of malta is saying, but facts ascertained by the judiciary. and i am amazed that such a basic fact has been overlooked when there is such – what i deem to be – a serious debate, or which should have been a serious debate. i will conclude, mr president. the second part of the topic for discussion is the rule of law. let me take some time to say what we do back at home about the rule of law. may i remind you, the economist classifies malta as one of the few countries which is a full democracy. some other member states are not full democracies, but i will not judge them. what have we done? first of all, we have a totally independent national audit office that criticises government whenever it deems needs to criticise the government; a government that, when it has reports, takes corrective action. we have an ombudsman, who is critical of all institutions and of all governments, irrespective of which party forms that government; a public service commission that is made up of representatives from all sides of the house. we have an independent judiciary which, even during the last legislature, decided that the opposition should have two extra seats; we disagreed with that ruling, but we said: yes, we will implement that ruling, because we observe the rule of law. we have an attorney general, who was not changed after the election. we kept the same attorney general who was nominated by the previous government, and now this person of high integrity gets attacked because some people in the opposition do not like the way in which he is giving advice. we have the chair of our financial services regulatory authority, who was appointed by the previous administration. we kept him in office. we have removed time-barring on issues of corruption. i mentioned a number of other facts, such as the removal of parliamentary immunity, and very soon the implementation of a commissioner for public standards. we will be having, for the first time, hearings in our parliament for appointing regulators. we have enacted a freedom of information act. we have relaxed media laws in a way that now they are one of the most, if not the most, liberal in europe. not only did we not put constraints on journalists, we have even relaxed the way in which journalists are required to put forward issues related to sources. and we have removed criminal libels in order to prevent journalists from being put in prison – laws that have been there even after we joined the european union, and we managed to remove them. in doing all this, then, we managed to achieve success, and i do believe that there might be some people who are not too keen on our economic success and social success. we not only have the best-performing economy in the eurozone – and that is not because of financial services and gaming alone, it is about tourism, manufacturing, the services industry; it is about the honest, busy people that go to work each and every day. we have increased our pensions; we have increased the minimum wage; we have introduced universal free childcare; we have put malta from number 20-whatever on the ilga list for lgbtiq rights to number one in europe. this is prosperity with a purpose; this is the sort of debate i would love to have in this house. i do not have a problem in having the debate that we just had. i do hope that, when i appear in front of the pana committee with the facts – and i assure mr langen that i will appear in front of the committee; i am not a volkswagen that says one thing but does another – i keep my word. i will be here to present facts, and those facts, hopefully, will show how misguided some colleagues, unfortunately, have been. having said that, i love this institution and i will continue to stick up for this institution.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i mentioned earlier the ongoing efforts in the council on the different files in the area of the fight against tax evasion, fraud and avoidance, and i can assure you that in the weeks before the end of our presidency we will do our utmost to achieve all the progress possible on these files. i am also confident that our estonian colleagues will pursue this work in the coming months in this area, which is a priority for the council.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. the so-called panama papers have highlighted, on the one hand, that european standards, however stringent, are not sufficient without the cooperation of third countries, in particular by the full adoption of stronger standards within the framework of the oecd, and, on the other hand, the existence of complex schemes of aggressive tax planning and evasion involving third jurisdictions, such as panama, and certain member states, such as the netherlands, luxembourg and malta. it is thus typical to set up a company with no real economic activity in panama, gibraltar or a similar country, and then open the bank account where the assets of that company are held in luxembourg. the automatic exchange of information and company registers identifying the final beneficiaries are fundamental instruments in the fight against tax avoidance, but we also need rules to control intermediaries, which is something the commission is working on, and to put an end to aggressive tax planning on the demand side, i.e. the so-called specialisation of certain jurisdictions, including member states, in the creation and registration of companies and in the management of large fortunes.
in writing. today's debate could be titled: panama papers and the rule of law in spain, as panama is one of the favourite tax havens of the spanish right. ministers and former pp ministers, such as mr rato and mr soria, appear in the papers. even the chief prosecutor of the anti-corruption, a favorite of the current justice minister, had to resign when the press revealed his panamanian companies. according to gestha, the laxness of the treasury allows three out of four tax crimes to go uninvestigated. and given the current pp government's ties to corrupt and corrupt, nothing will change if the eu does not take action on the matter. the eu loses up to 237 billion a year to tax evasion in panama, 3.4 percent of its public spending, money for hospitals, schools and housing that the rich skim off to the working class. that is why i ask you not to be an accomplice and to act by immediately classifying panama as a tax haven.
the next item is the report by mr josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets, and mr udo bullmann, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the implementation of the european fund for strategic investments (2016/2064 (ini)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the tourist industry. madam president the truth is that it has been difficult to evaluate efsi 1 after only one and a half years. however, with all the studies and evaluations, we have seen that although the quantitative results were in principle positive, there were still substantial shortcomings in the quality of the projects, in the lack of clear proof of their additionality, in their geographical concentration, in the lack of certain sectors or even in the lack of transparency in the selection. in the case of transport, we have found a rather cruel paradox, since the connecting europe facility has been allocated 2.2 billion, i.e. more than 25% of what the efsi 1 was, and yet in the projects that have been achieved we have found only 13% of projects for transport. and what is worse: in the proposal for efsi 2 it turns out that the commission - and it is not you, mr moscovici, i know that - comes up with a 'no roads for nothing'. we would therefore like to see the efsi 2 take into account that if we are still being asked to pay for transport, there is of course a specific interest in the additionality of the cef projects.
it is a good time to take stock of the situation and, above all, to learn for the future and to improve the second part of the plan, which we have already tabled. it cannot be denied that the plan is working and that eur 195 billion has been mobilised so far. but we cannot be dazzled by quantity, but quality is also important. and in this case, there are many things that are susceptible to improvement. for example, the true additionality of projects, because in certain cases it is not entirely clear that this criterion has been met and we have seen some projects with the efsi label which leave us with many doubts as to whether they could not have been financed on the markets. complementarity with other funds also needs to be improved and we also need to clearly define the objectives so that there is no competition or duplication with other items such as horizon 2020 or cosme. we also need greater transparency in the evaluation of projects, because sometimes we do not know why a project has been funded or not. and this transparency would also allow us to assess the real additionality of the projects. the geographical distribution, and above all the sectoral distribution, must also be improved by encouraging investment in social infrastructure. we must ensure better involvement of national and regional promotional banks, because their knowledge on the ground is essential. we must also adapt the financial instruments to the needs of projects with higher-risk financial products, such as subordinated financing or capital market instruments. and finally, we must develop the counselling centre fully, because it is one of the pillars of the plan. it must be proactive, it must go out and look for promoters and it must have an impact on the sectors and countries where the use of this investment plan is really most needed. in short, for the future, more, yes, but better, too.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr bullmann and mr fernandes, for the huge amount of work they have done. i hope we will be able to finish it in the next few weeks. i hope that the new efsi projects will be chosen more on their merits than on their proximity to political power because we have had some experience in some countries where this was the case. we should not repeat this mistake as there is the possibility that efsi will have a real impact on the economy. i am also happy to see that we are going into a more decentralised form of efsi. i hope that we will continue the path of new associations in this spirit. i will conclude by saying that taking decisions closer to the people and the real economy seems to be the best way to make a real success of efsi.
madam president, the european fund for strategic investments is a good idea whose implementation must be improved. in the report, which i think is a good report, we have pointed out some aspects, and one of them is the selection of projects, because we have had some surprises, and i will give a concrete example. bankia was chosen in october last year to carry out a €50 million project to improve its digital platform. bankia, a financial institution that was chaired by former minister rato for whom the prosecutor's office yesterday asked for five years in prison for having hidden the bankruptcy of the institution from investors, which was rescued with public money at an estimated cost of 12 000 billion euros, marked by the scandal of the black cards with which its directors appropriated up to 2,7 million euros, which has been convicted of selling preferences to an elderly woman with alzheimer's. do you think that an institution with such a recent history deserves the trust of the eib and the commission? what deserves more public support? this is not the way to build trust between the european institutions and a citizenry which has seen how some banks, managed in an inept and even illegal way, have gotten the crisis very cheap.
madam president, the efsi is the central element of the commission's investment plan and although it has now been almost two years old and is bearing fruit, we must not be complacent. i am confident that the objectives set by the commission - ambitious objectives, no doubt - will be met and that the 500 billion euro planned for additional investment in the real economy will be mobilised by 2020. to date, all kinds of projects have been funded: energy, transport, digital, agriculture, environment, energy efficiency, r & d & i, infrastructure, etc. but i would like to highlight one of them. i am talking about the canary islands, an outermost region of europe that needs all our support and also needs the efsi to be able to adapt to its peculiarities, and i am talking about a project: the 'guaguas' bus line from las palmas, a project approved and signed, which will create more than a thousand jobs during the construction phase before it goes into operation in 2021. i think that's good news. all initiatives aimed at improving the impact of the efsi, its transparency and complementarity with other european funds are welcome, but what is also important is its impact on smes, which are the main economic engine of the union. i would also like to stress that in order to exploit the full potential of the efsi guarantee and avoid distortions in markets, it is imperative that the eib cooperates actively and loyally with national promotional banks and private investors. only in this way will the efsi instrument serve as a genuine crowdfunding instrument and thus avoid the phenomena of mere substitution of sources of financing in projects for the eib.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, as a member of the alde group and as an economist, i am not very fond of the idea of splitting and fragmenting poverty. that if it's energy, that if it's rural, and the children's. but, having said that, and having said that, probably, the vast majority of poor children are poor because they are from poor families, we have to fix that. it is true that, as a liberal and as a human being, i am much more annoyed by the poverty of children, in the sense that it breaks definitively - bernie sanders said "sentences children to death by poverty from the start" - and above all the fundamental principle of our liberal democracies, which is equal opportunities. and in that sense, i do believe that we have to make an extra effort for the tragedy of child poverty. and this extra effort is all the more justified because it must be admitted that it is a european problem and needs european impetus and needs european solidarity. because just as there are different banking areas with different levels of crisis, or different rural areas, so poverty affects different parts of europe, but in the end it is a european problem and a tragedy for europe, unacceptable in such a rich area. the commission therefore has the power and the moral duty to organise not only benchmarking and making proposals to the member states. let us not talk about the principle of subsidiarity. let's talk about effectiveness in conjunction with concrete, advised measures, to really see the effects in reducing child poverty.
madam president, this is a personal experience. i am a councillor in my town hall and a few years ago we were visiting the homes of some neighbors. we knocked on a door, and a mother with two children, aged five and seven, answered. the youngest, when he saw a loaf of bread carried by the councilwoman who accompanied me, rushed to take the loaf of bread because he had been eating only water and sugar for several days. the mother, crying, asked us: what kind of state guarantees a desk in a school for my son and does not guarantee a loaf of bread? and he's right about that. i think we must be clear that the decent society we have built in europe with the welfare state must guarantee the most basic things, and the most basic things are not guaranteed by making complaints, as we are doing today, but by policies. we believe in policies. and so what i am asking the european commission to do is to fight child poverty by committing to and supporting a directive on minimum incomes so that member states are obliged to put public money in so that families with basic needs can meet those of their children and put an end, once and for all, to something that does not define us as a society.
madam president, children have the right to protection against child poverty under the european social pillar. a fundamental right, when one in four european children and one in three spanish children live below the poverty line. child poverty is caused by insufficient parental income, precariousness, unemployment and lack of social protection coverage. so fighting child poverty is fighting social inequality. the european social charter tells us what minimum social standards are needed. a smi at 60% of median wage and a guaranteed income at 60% of median income for children and adults with lower incomes. issues to be developed through legislative instruments such as a framework directive. hypocritical recommendations in instruments such as the european semester are not enough, because it is incompatible to strengthen social protection and at the same time demand cuts in public spending. make a much more ambitious bet than you've made so far.
in writing. one in five europeans affected by poverty and social exclusion is a child. 25 million of them. this is a figure that threatens the model of solidarity and economic and social convergence on which the eu is based. it is important that the eu shows sincere support and supports local and national actions to end child poverty, with the support and advice of specialised ngos and the organisations of people living in poverty themselves. i therefore believe it is important to act with a strategy based on a two-pronged approach: in the short term, through measures for social and labour inclusion and for the alleviation of existing poverty, for example through the esf, the fead responding to needs of material deprivation. - in the long term and to combat this intergenerational component and its consequent vicious circle, we need to end the existing stereotypes towards the most disadvantaged communities, to ensure affordable and quality public services and above all through education and training, avoiding early school leaving, since without training it is difficult to find a quality job and therefore to get out of poverty.
in writing. the european union is in a state of permanent contradiction. on the one hand, it has set out as a principle to combat social exclusion and poverty, while at the same time promoting measures within the framework of the european semester aimed at reducing public spending as a way of economic recovery. economic recovery is impossible if public administrations are deprived of the resources to implement correct public policies that give the population quality public education, or affordable healthcare for all. finally, let us remember that time is running out and the indicator for reducing poverty, especially child poverty, set out in the europe 2020 objectives, is not only not being reduced as much as we would like, but is increasing, reaching 25.3 million poor children. in short, without a radical change in economic and financial policies any statement by the european commission or the council is absolutely unnecessary and empty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the tourist industry. madam president, to understand the transformations in the world of work in the 21st century we have to distinguish between the collaborative economy, which includes forms of solidarity and altruism, and online service platforms, which is a business sector like any other. i think that this distinction is not clear enough in the report and we run the risk of disguising one thing as being the other. the european union must stress the need for a regulatory framework with guarantees to put an end to the violations in a sector which, with great growth prospects, is disguising precarious and unprotected employment as a kind of youth employment or entrepreneurship opportunity. the provision of services at low cost, saving labour costs and encouraging precariousness and unfair competition is not a good strategy and does not offer guarantees to the consumer or to those who work. online platforms must comply with the same labour rules as traditional competitors. to ask for this, to ask for a labour regulation, i consider that it is not asking for heaven, it is asking for equality, security and rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the digital economy requires us public authorities to do four things: to regulate to avoid unfair competition between operators providing the same service, regardless of whether they do so through digital media or through the traditional economy; to train, so that inequalities do not occur from the point of view of equal opportunities; to invest to reduce the digital gaps that already exist; and, above all and also, to support the sectors that may be affected by this digital transition in which we live. but we need to regulate precisely to avoid a double legal reality in the digital world with respect to the traditional world. those who claim a parallel labour market, under the umbrella of the digital economy, are deeply mistaken: digitalisation cannot come hand in hand with a greater precariousness of employment. and to do that, we need to ensure that people working through online platforms have the same wages, the same social protection, the same social security and the same coverage as workers in traditional media. we have to ensure taxation, because it's the lifeblood of the welfare state in an ever-growing economy, and online platforms have to pay their taxes where they generate economic activity. we must also ensure consumer protection, data security protection and also clarify the responsibility of platforms, which are not mere intermediaries but are active agents in the economy and society. regulation is therefore needed to avoid those grey areas that leave workers and citizens as a whole unprotected from the challenges of the digital economy.
madam president, the digital economy offers great possibilities for europe: our future is at stake. if we want a thriving digital economy, we need to establish a clear regulatory framework, one that provides security and certainty to citizens and businesses, one that creates quality jobs and not precariousness. the key is in training, in the continuous and constant improvement of the digital skills of present and future workers to avoid exclusion. the key is in a clear regulatory framework and its compliance, cutting the cracks that those who claim to come to modernize the economy sneak through and only come to violate the flaws in their rules without adding value. the key is in a social and labour protection system that protects workers equally, that avoids old forms of exploitation with new clothes. the key is to pay taxes, as has been said, where the profits are generated. the key is therefore to make the network economy an economy for moving towards a more just society and without new or old exclusions.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. today is the last day of roaming. i am referring to this because progress in the integration of the telecommunications market is a path that runs parallel to the digital single market. these are facts which bind us together as europeans, which make the european project more tangible and closer. the digital single market is undoubtedly an opportunity for business innovation in europe. but to do so, it must be accompanied by a body of legislation that provides the same rules for all. our small and mediumsized enterprises, our selfemployed, are all asking us for: legal certainty and a framework of fair and loyal competition. digitalisation and new technologies will continue to transform the ways in which citizens and businesses communicate, access information and behave, and both traditional business models and those based on new online platforms will need to be attentive not only to technological demands but to all the new demands of european citizens.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, our group is clearly committed to transparency and accountability, especially in the use of public funds. but we are also committed to the idea of a pluralist democracy. some groups defended in the past the need to increase the threshold to have access to european funds. they said, and i quote: ‘one should reflect if a one-man party really contributes to expressing the political will of citizens of the union’. a party represented by one mep still needs to be represented in at least a quarter of the member states in order to be registered. and secondly, no democratic system cuts the funds to a party that has parliamentary representation just because it is represented by one member. this dangerously undermines a pluralist legitimate debate. therefore, we welcome the good cooperation at this stage in finding a solution that does not harm the essential dimensions of every functioning democratic society.
on behalf of the alde group. madam commissioner, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. let us see, finally, finally it seems that an industrial policy for europe is being taken seriously. but, having said that, i must say with all due respect that i am a little disappointed in the commissioner's position. again, we are back to innovation. it's very good. of course, who's not going to go for innovation? and above all, linked to the environment. it's very good. again, we are talking, in the solutions, about the circular economy, which, of course, the alde group supports, and so on. no, look, that's still throwing balls out. because we can say, "look at what america is innovating". yeah, but the u.s. has ten aircraft carriers cruising around the world with the entire escort fleet. and there is no, no large economic complex that has its independence, its bargaining power, the prosperity and freedom of its people if it does not have a large industrial or military complex with research. and that's what we're talking about. and that is what mr tajani was talking about when he was commissioner for industry, that 20%. what we have to do is take very seriously that freedom, prosperity, the future in independence or interdependence having a say in the world lies in having an industrial political source that manufactures things, not just innovates. and that depends on the commission making it a priority, which is the key word in our question. as a priority, by investing in rationalizing competition policy, by investing in quality, stable employment with enormous added value. smes will benefit, because they live in perfect symbiosis with large companies and large industrial plans. stability is good. we want stability. and in the end, you have to explain to people that all that economic effort will be for their freedom, like, for example, galileo.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president an ambitious industrial policy must necessarily be based on four aspects: public intervention, territorial cohesion, social rights and a new framework for global trade. without regulation, the industry becomes hostage to finance and rentiers, like the electricity oligopoly, dependent only on its profits and not on the productive development of the country. the objective of 20% of industrial gdp cannot therefore be achieved if these sectors are not put at the service of the general interest. our organisation advocates the nationalisation of energy and banking, but even in the current framework we need reforms to bring down industrial costs. we can think of bilateral contracts between generators and industry or within industrial parks, possibilities which have been little exploited, for example, with governments in countries such as spain. we also need to combat the asymmetries within the european union: while some countries are running trade surpluses, others have an anaemic industry, which prevents us from developing a productive model and condemns us to unemployment and precariousness. only a genuine investment plan for the less industrialised regions will ensure their long-term development. let us also talk about labour rights: relocations, outsourcing and industrial subcontracting are multiplying to weaken the labour movement. if we want a strong industry, we have to adapt the legislation to strengthen collective bargaining. if europe wants to lead the industrial transition, it has to do so from the productivity side and not from the precarious side. finally, we need another vision of global trade. it is up to this parliament and the council to decide whether they accept unilateral trade liberalization with china or whether they want to accelerate the destruction of industrial employment through trade agreements such as ttip. we need new forms of global trade, rules that protect social and environmental standards and fight against dumping.
madam president, madam commissioner, today is a day when we demonstrate the way forward for the european union. the path of concrete achievements. i repeat, the path of concrete achievements. like the end of roaming, which started today. this is a concrete achievement that benefits more than 500 million people and the whole of european industry, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and represents an important step in the development of the digital single market. the competitiveness of european industry needs to move along this path of concrete achievements. and in that direction, it is urgent to have fixed and broadband network infrastructures to develop the best connectivity, which in turn will allow the development of 5g and, with it, to have an instrument for european industry to benefit from digital technologies such as the internet of things, which constitute an extraordinary opportunity for the global competitiveness of the manufacturing industry.
in writing. the modernisation of industry must take on climate commitments. today, no industrial technique can be developed that does not seek to meet the needs of citizens, such as welfare or employment, but above all industrial policy must be in tune with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the entire production process, from innovation to distribution. the population is increasingly demanding elements of environmentally friendly consumption and the development of the green economy is an opportunity that europe must not throw away. the european commission's impact assessments on the development of the renewable energy generation industry and on energy efficiency improvements in the construction sector estimate, among other things, that more than 800 000 jobs will be created in both industrial sectors. despite the legislative obstacles, we know that countries such as denmark and spain are world leaders in the development of wind turbines. the decarbonisation of the economy, which is increasingly demanded by consumers, is an opportunity for european industry: we must see it as an opportunity to produce, in clear contrast to other economies that do not bet on the future.
author. mr. president, since the tragic bombing in december 2014 that killed over a hundred people mostly children, the government of pakistan has activated the national action plan to combat terrorism. among other things, this plan includes the execution of death sentences for terrorism defendants. unfortunately, we have seen how, under the umbrella of the terrorism charge, the government of pakistan is including all kinds of cases, especially to persecute political and social opposition. particularly significant is the case of activist baba jan and twelve other peaceful protesters, sentenced to life imprisonment in 2014 by the anti-terrorism court. we send you a warm greeting and a hug from here. this situation is a clear step backwards since the 2008 moratorium, which partially eased the execution of civilians. but since the beginning of 2015 this moratorium has been completely ended for all those sentenced for capital crimes. from here we want to demand not only fair trials with guarantees and freedom for the unjustly imprisoned political activists in pakistan like baba jan, but we want to raise our voice for the global abolition of the death penalty. in our view, this situation shows once again the shame of a european union and, in particular, of the commission, which allows pakistan to be one of the eight countries benefiting from the generalized system of preferences - the gsp - which provides preferential tariffs in exchange for a commitment to respect human rights, which pakistan does not respect. today, the monitoring system and the spg itself are clearly called into question, once again. surely, this system has done much to boost many businesses. we know, for example, that many european companies import manufactured textiles from pakistan and they certainly benefit from this framework. what is intolerable is that in return for this, for these deals, the commission has turned a blind eye to the systematic violation of human rights in pakistan. this can't go on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and above all, my colleague, mrs mizzi, who has done and is doing an excellent job with this report, deserves our thanks. on 1 june 2016, the european commission presented this package of communications setting out its vision of how european standard-setting should evolve in the coming years. within this are some priority issues in our internal market committee - which is still working on them - such as 5g, cloud computing, the internet of things, big data technologies and cybersecurity. both the commission's general package on european standardisation and the communication on information and communication technology (ict) standards adopted in april 2016 will bring the harmonisation we have long been calling for in this sector. we are therefore taking another step towards a common regulatory framework which is able to adapt uniformly to the evolution of technological and logistical developments taking place around it. it is essential that this initiative be supported, because there must be cohesion in these policies, which will not only benefit the member states by providing a regulatory framework at european level, but which will also - and this is the most important and most interesting thing at the moment - bring great benefits to both consumers and businesses. as i have argued in previous speeches in this house - and i have argued in the work of the committee on the internal market - the unification of standards at european level is an indispensable condition for overcoming market fragmentation and protecting ourselves against external threats in this area. i would say to my colleague andreas schwab that we should not waste time, as he has done, with mrs parker: they are so fiercely anti-european. we must do this with the british, my dear andreas: the british who really want to continue to have a privileged relationship with us, with the european union. we must do that.
madam president, the rise of hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis c is a serious public health problem in europe. we must certainly update the european union's action plans, but we must not be confused about the origin of the problem. the rise in these diseases is not due to more risky behaviors or to the loss of effectiveness of certain treatments. it is due to the increase in social inequalities, the increase in poverty and the fact that vulnerable groups are more exposed to risk factors, since they are denied access to prevention and adequate treatment, a real health collapse that is the fault of the policies of cuts and the business of private health. they should authorize the use of compulsory licences which lower the price of medicines, reverse the austerity policies which put our lives at risk. health is not a business, it's a right.
madam president, putting an end to planned obsolescence and requiring quality and durability in products and promoting repair are fundamental measures to ensure a longer life for products. in addition, this will have advantages because it will create new jobs which should be located around consumption, it will relieve the pressure on natural resources which are plundered in the countries of the south and often a source of conflict and will soon have to contribute to reducing energy consumption and also to the fight against climate change. we also think that public administrations should lead by example and start demanding sustainability of products in public procurement and in those products they will subsidize. i regard this document as a starting point for going further and embarking on a path that is essential to follow, the path of decline because the planet has limits.
mr president, first of all i would like to acknowledge the great work done by the rapporteur in this report, and i also believe that it is essential to discuss precarious employment in a context in which many european countries are witnessing a change from the welfare state to the 'precarious state'. last week there were floor waitresses from spain and greece in the european parliament, a collective that is absolutely feminized and in conditions of exploitation, as the president of the ac hotels chain, antonio catalán, himself acknowledges. the fact that between 40 and 80 beds are made every day, that 70% of women workers have to take medication to be able to work because of musculoskeletal and psychosocial diseases, that they charge as little as two and a half euros per room, that they are paid between 20% and 30% less than other jobs in the same occupational category in the same sector that are not feminized, or that fraudulent training and temporary contracts are systematically applied are some examples of how precariousness not only persists but grows in a booming sector that generates increasing profits. but we have more examples of new forms of precariousness. this is the case of the workers of the online platforms badly called collaborative economy like the deliveroo workers, who went on strike in my country yesterday. the precariousness of employment is a social evil which puts at risk the survival of many lives, but also of our social state.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs briano for her work and tell her that i am in favour of diversifying the income of fishing areas, but we must not forget that her main activity is fishing. its products, crafts, traditions and culture are the basis for attractive diversification activities. i shall abstain because this report is more concerned with suggesting the possibilities of tourism than with ensuring that local communities are the ones who enjoy the additional income from new activities to make their activity sustainable. i miss more references to the protection of fisheries and fishermen and their role in the design, development and marketing of new goods and services. only then will we ensure that it is based on authenticity - the key to its success - and ensure that the benefits, much more than jobs in the hospitality sector, remain in these areas so pressured by factors such as pollution, seasonality, reduced fishing quotas or the limit on the number of species they can catch.
mr president, we believe that fisheries tourism, if carried out in a responsible way, can be a complement to the fisheries sector and contribute to the enhancement of the culture of fishery products. but i want to make it very clear that tourist activities can under no circumstances replace or have a negative impact on the various types of fisheries. fishing is first and foremost a key economic activity in countries such as galicia and other coastal areas of europe. fishermen want to make a living from their work, they don't want to become tour guides. we must bear in mind that not all areas have the same potential to attract fishing tourism and that these types of projects, if not developed in a responsible way, can quickly become exhausted and extremely seasonal. we therefore call for great prudence before any kind of tax incentive for maritime tourism. i also think that the eu should first of all support that fisheries are environmentally and economically sustainable and should give priority to the consumption of local fishery products.
mr president, i have to say... it is not the first time that i have denounced in this house the castor project scandal, between catalonia and the valencian country, which was intended to inject natural gas into an old oil field and which caused more than 500 earthquakes. when this absolutely nefarious project was halted, the spanish state undertook to pay over eur 1.3 billion in compensation to the company. more than two years ago, in april 2015, the european parliament deplored the actions of the european investment bank and the european commission, which it required to take measures to prevent spanish citizens from having to bear that compensation. the european commission has not yet responded to our demands. the spanish state is providing covert aid under the pretext of compensation. this is an unacceptable scandal and the commission is partly responsible for it by doing nothing. so i denounce it again, again, again.
mr president, a few days ago the bank of spain was losing 60 600 million in the bank rescue. shortly afterwards, another 1,000 were lost in the merger of mare nostrum and bankia. with this money, there would have been no need to go to the reserve fund to pay pensions, or to close hospitals and schools, or to reduce social protection. and i could go on. and that, not counting the interest or indirect aid, such as the tax credits that banco santander will receive for the purchase of popular, while thousands of small savers lose all their capital in an entity declared solvent, is an enigma and a shame that the spanish government and the ecb will have to explain to us. the bank bailout is a bottomless pit that leaves us with a concentrated, fragile financial system that is far removed from the real economy. the path to growth requires rescuing workers, pensioners, families, victims of a predatory and unsustainable financial system.
mr president, we are still moving towards the selfdetermination referendum to be held in catalonia on 1 october, a referendum which we support by between 70% and 80% of the catalans. and, as we move forward, the spanish government, unable to manage politically such a wide and legitimate demand, remains locked in its world of disqualifications and threats. these days it's all about the mayors. we are threatened with action against our supposed - if we have it - courage to cooperate so that our fellow citizens can vote in full democratic normality. well, the vast majority of catalonia's mayors will be up to the task, we will always be on the side of democracy, the ballot box and the people. when a state threatens political representatives who want to cast ballots, that state has a serious problem. and when the state that threatens those we want to put to the polls is a member state of the european union, then the whole union has a problem.
in galicia last month, police carried out very harsh police charges against people demonstrating against the eviction of the social centre escárnio and maldizer, which caused dozens of identified injured people, some of whom were arrested the next day. now, the police directorate general has announced that it will be processing some 400 sanction proposals against 116 people. the professional association of journalists of galicia denounced and condemned the police's obstruction of coverage of this demonstration. the government delegate in galicia stated in a radio interview that the spanish government controls and persecutes people who regularly attend demonstrations. all this constitutes very serious violations of the right to freedom of expression and assembly. this parliament has often condemned situations like this when they occur in third countries. we must set an example and act decisively when this happens in a member state.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president welcome, mr. muscat, you have shown that a small island is not afraid of a big responsibility. malta has managed the general agreement of twenty states by supporting the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, which its government, however, does not defend, and that is very commendable. it has also managed to reach agreement on the proposal for a directive on combating money laundering, although the text was not very ambitious either. but italy is threatening these days to close its ports to the arrival of thousands and thousands of people from libya and austria is threatening to put troops on its borders with italy while most member states are keeping a low profile and, yes, members of parliament are certainly also, on occasion, keeping a low profile, mr juncker. france and germany have promised italy and greece that they will increase relocation, but this sounds more and more like words to buy time. the migration and humanitarian crisis, unprecedented since the second world war, is rotting away, and it is not a failure of malta. it's not malta. it is all of us who are closing the borders with greece or italy, as if we had no common responsibility. malta is one of the few countries that takes in unaccompanied minors who have come fleeing war, because most don't want anything to do with the minors. in the speeches, yes, but in reality, welcoming and working with minors requires taking responsibility, coordinating and working more and better. the failure to welcome children, underage refugees, is a symptom of the illness of europe, because these young people can become extraordinary adults and we throw them into crime. as the six months of this mandate pass, we see the gap between security and reception policies widening. in the security sector there is speed and commitment on the part of the states - and i am glad that we are quick in this - but in the other sectors there is slowness and apathy towards the most vulnerable, and this adds to our shame. semesters are increasingly hiding the word "asylum" or "refugee", as if that means we're missing out on these vulnerable people that we're not serving, because we don't have the courage to draw the virtue of the collective effort that is supporting others and really supporting ourselves. it is not harmless: the logic of national egoism also makes it impossible for us to make progress in this global world.
madam president, i join in the praise of the maltese presidency's report. they took over the presidency at a very difficult time for the union, when anti-european forces were on the rise. it is true that the elections in the basque country and the netherlands have shown that populism and nationalism are not the solution and have given the union air at a time when brexit was becoming a reality, and also with the challenge of immigration, which was one of the main challenges; the challenge of immigration and the challenge of integration. of course, there are also economic problems, terrorism, security and so on. it is true that there have been achievements and that we must put on the table the end of roaming, which has been a historic milestone; the signing of the istanbul convention, in the fight against violence against women; the marrakesh treaty, which we are going to approve this thursday, for access to published works by people with visual disabilities; and also the directive against money laundering, to make it very difficult for all those who want to evade taxation. but it is true that there are many challenges on the table: one of them is immigration, as many colleagues have said. we still have not resolved in a dignified and efficient way the greatest humanitarian crisis since world war ii. the capacity to receive refugees is currently only 11% of the member states, when it could be much more, and the next presidency will need a lot of coordination to meet this challenge. it was clearly not malta's responsibility. it has been and is the responsibility of everyone here and of all the european institutions. the future of the union is undoubtedly dependent on the social clause. with the social key we will have a secure and protected europe, a prosperous, sustainable and strong europe in the international arena.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, today is an important day for this parliament. for many years, many of us have fought to achieve more transparency and accountability from multinational companies. this is a request our voters have been demanding of us for a long time. today, we are voting on a good text. it would affect 90% of multinationals with a turnover higher than eur 750 million a year world-wide. this would be an amazing achievement that will enhance transparency, limit wrongdoings and increase the confidence of our citizens on globalisation. the more transparent our multinationals become, the easier it will be to defend their big and undeniable importance for our economies. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs our groups reached an agreement on 95% of the report. we should not abandon it because of a small disagreement on just one issue, and weaken the broad consensus we have in this chamber just before the council negotiations start. we all know that some member states will do their best to weaken this legislation. i hope that no group in the european parliament will make their task easier. if our voters could ask us to do just three things in this parliament, one of them would be to make more transparent the dealings of our multinationals. having more transparent multinationals is also – and foremost – about building a healthier and more accountable democracy.
on behalf of the green group, madam president today we are taking an important step forward in tax justice: we are going to move forward on a rule that will force multinationals to publish, country by country, how much tax they pay in relation to how much profit they have and in relation to other data that determines their activity, and it is very important. i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr hugues bayet, for his work and the good cooperation which has been established. this legislation will prevent many multinationals from developing aggressive tax strategies. i mean we have improved the commission's text: the data will be disaggregated, country by country, outside the european union; we will have to explain what kind of preferential tax regimes for patents these multinationals have - that is also very important. and, of course, on some points i have to say that our group would have liked to go much further. for example, the limit of 750 million euros of profits from which the rule applies is excessive and we would have preferred it to have been 40 million. what we do not share, however, are the attempts by the right wing of this house to water down the legislation on the grounds of competitiveness, as if this would harm competitiveness. i would like to remind the epp that european banks are already obliged to do this today, and that has not damaged their competitiveness. and this whole thing about us going beyond global standards... the european union should have the ambition to set global standards in the context of globalisation. i therefore want to say - and i end with this - that the safeguard clause which some are trying to introduce is a disgrace. it should not be allowed, because it would be a hole for the whole legislation ... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, we are adopting today a commitment to transparency and it is one of the rules on which the commission has made a report which we fully support. all companies with an overall level of revenue exceeding eur 750 million per year will be required to prepare and publish annual country-by-country reports in the interests of transparency. it is true that, as the directive says, this threshold, which must be lowered to bring it into line with the oecd, can be revised after four years. the safeguard clause is a good clause, because it strikes an essential balance between competitiveness and the necessary transparency, and it has been the result of many commitments until a balanced point has been reached. public information on those company data which are considered relevant, in particular for tax purposes, is very important in order to prevent tax evasion. but that's not the only reason transparency is important. it is important because it will undoubtedly strengthen corporate social responsibility and also corporate governance. it is certainly a benefit for everyone: for citizens, for workers, for shareholders, for the administrations themselves, for investors. it is true that confidence and the rights of workers are strengthened, because it strengthens dialogue and fosters mutual trust, since it provides objective and reliable data on the real situation of the company. it is important, therefore, to work on trust. one of the objectives of this initiative is to work on trust, social commitment and good governance. transparency is always a competitive value, without any doubt. it is a strategic investment, with benefits in the medium and long term, but it must also be sensible, and that is why the safeguard clause is necessary. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 16 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. - i know. thank you, mr tibor, for the question. when reliable data is given and when objective data is provided on how a company operates, on the business situation, workers are particularly sensitized. and that builds trust, but also the citizens themselves, because they will know with confidence where the companies operate. the culture of transparency must therefore be created in all sectors, not only by companies but also by the business community. and it is very important that the business sector makes this commitment.
madam president, i think we are taking a very important step in a matter which is also very important for the citizens, but i think we have to recognize that the step is not enough. i think there are too many exceptions to the safeguard clause and that the amount is too high, whether in turnover, the number of workers, etc. so the step is very important for transparency, the step is very important for fiscal justice, but it is not enough. i would like to remind you that the socialist group has been calling for support for amendments which would make a directive fairer and more effective. i would also like to stress the importance of the european commission having a role in coordinating the tax services of the member states. if there is no allocation of responsibility to the european commission, there will be no efficiency in these measures. and i think it is also important to call for uniform legislation in all tax matters.
mr president, a courageous europe that does not hide, that is committed to the social dimension, to the rights of the working class and does not allow wages that lead to poverty; a europe of solidarity, that faces the challenge of immigration and refugees with common policies that do not bury the dignity of persons; a europe that is open, equal between men and women, sustainable, and that is enterprising and capable of meeting the challenges of globalisation. that is our commitment, that of the european socialists, that we will not give up a different political project that will restore the people's confidence. unfortunately, the right wing of this parliament thinks that we can afford to keep things the same, that we can turn our backs on the problems of the citizens. we're on time. let's not let it be too late. let's not make europe a problem. let us make europe a solution.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, we have read the reflection paper in detail, and if i had to highlight one sentence it would be this: the concerns and expectations of european citizens must be an important factor in shaping the new budget of the european union. in recent years, the union has been increasingly expected to meet challenges for which it has neither the competence nor the financial resources, and indeed europe is not at its best today. there is growing dissatisfaction precisely because we are not doing enough, and that is what we have to respond to: we have to propose a courageous project, one which will once again inspire the europeanists, one which will attract generations who have not lived through wars or dictatorships. and that's now or never. we have to respond to the call for help from refugees in europe because the member states are not doing so. we have to lead the fight against climate change in the face of a trump who's an arsonist. we must make a larger european youth guarantee available to young people because we are denying them their future and their present. we must europeanise defence and security policy because together we will be much more effective. we must continue to finance the common agricultural policy 100% to ensure quality food at affordable prices, and we must continue the productive investments of cohesion policy. and for that, we need a solvent budget. it is time to talk about new resources: we really need to introduce a financial transaction tax; we need a european corporation tax. we must fight tax fraud; we must put an end to the gift vouchers that half the member states - most of them, by the way, from the rich - receive. and, for example, we also have to incorporate - in a proposal - the fines that the european commission is imposing on companies for breaching competition laws. mr president, commissioner, this morning we remembered simone veil. in her speech as president of this house she said: l'europe de la solidarité, d'abord. i mean solidarity between peoples, regions and individuals. i can think of no better tribute than to define the future of the union from these words.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, commissioner, should we change course or follow the same failed recipe as always in the face of europe's challenges? that is the dichotomy of the european union. brexit requires a budgetary reshuffle, of course: it means the loss to a net taxpayer of around €10 billion a year 7% of the eu budget. but it's also a problem that it's still the elites and the financial powers that dictate the guidelines for the future: more austerity, more cuts, more deregulation, more privatization, et cetera, et cetera. with the same recipe, you're not going to get miraculous results, but the same old thing. that is why we must propose a larger budget, to which the member states contribute equitably, and serious public investment plans, because the juncker plan is like a cushion for the socialisation of losses which does not promote the energy transition, the change of model or cohesion between the different territories of the european union. same recipes, same results. i'm not sure i can do it. it is time to reinvent the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i welcome the latest of the commission’s reflection papers with the hope that all these reflections will not only foster the debate about the future of europe, but also help us to make the right choices towards a political, social and sustainable europe. most of us here would agree that europe will have to face big challenges in the coming years, whether the need for a more inclusive and sustainable growth, the fight against inequalities and climate change or security issues. to face them, we will need not only a clear political will, leadership and ambition, but also money. therefore, we welcome the commission’s underlying idea to link the future eu budget framework with a clear project for europe. since we in the greens/efa group would like to see a stronger, fairer, more efficient and greener europe, we would also like to see a strong, fair, efficient, flexible and green financial framework, a budget able to deliver results where we are most in need of them, a budget that invests in the future – for instance by building better chances for our youth or increasing research and development for the good of all of society – and a budget aligned with crucial commitments such as those reflected in the paris agreement. at the current pace, we are going to fall short on the 20% climate-related spending objective. however, we need to deliver more on climate by significantly increasing efforts and the share of climate—related spending. on the revenue side, there is a clear need to reform the own—resources system. with brexit there is a unique opportunity to reform it and to scrap all rebates and corrective measures altogether. we should leave the current system – which is overly based on gni contributions – behind and move towards a budget which is more autonomous of member states’ transfers. to conclude, i ask the commission to put forward not only thoughtful reflections, but also ambitious proposals for the next mff.
mr president, commissioner oettinger, the reflection paper is good, your speech today was also good. i miss that he did not even talk about the cap or agricultural policy today. he did in the commission. i want to say: at this moment we must stop using the brexit excuse systematically. it is important, of course - yes, that money is important - but if we have ambition, and now is the time to dream of a different and better europe, we cannot talk about less resources, or that with less resources we do more. i am in favour of a new defence policy and of improving security in europe, of course i am. but if it is in exchange for the community's agricultural policy and cohesion policy, i do not agree. the citizens won't understand. cohesion policy and agricultural policy reach each and every one of the peoples of europe directly and therefore they will not understand it. let us have ambition for a better europe. and to do that, let us be courageous, let the commission be the most courageous, and let us all ask for more resources - this parliament, the commission - and let us address this in the council and also in the states. i will do it in my country, in spain, and i hope that others will do the same.
mr president, my colleagues and the rapporteur have already spoken about our mandate, so i would like to take this opportunity to remind the council - which is not here but is certainly listening - that its position on the 2018 budget must be consistent with the political priorities of the union - political priorities which they themselves decide at their meetings - and that it should therefore contain a real political position and not be a mere accounting adjustment where the budget is cut without taking into account the needs. and when we talk about needs, we mean very specific things: we need a model of sustainable growth based on research, on innovation, that creates quality jobs, that is able to deal with the challenge of migration and refugees or climate change. and that is why we need sufficient funds for these programmes, because we know that they work and that they reflect the enormous added value of the european union. and finally, i would remind you that when we talk about budgets, the council and the european parliament are both budgetary authorities and therefore negotiate on an equal footing.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the entire middle east is going through an era of deep transformation and radical change. our attention is always focused on the latest political developments, from the conflicts in syria and iraq to the diplomatic crisis in the gulf, but the topic we are discussing today, the condition of women in saudi arabia, is no less relevant. definitely, inequality always makes a society weaker, and this is true of inequality between men and women. our work for gender equality is not only consistent with our principles and values but it is also a matter of stability and resilience and it is a matter of economic growth. no country can achieve its full potential if half of its people do not have the same opportunities to work – and, of course, to learn and to have a say. in times of great change in the middle east, it is essential that we constantly monitor the new threats to gender equality, and also the opportunities that arise for women’s empowerment. i can only concur that the situation of women’s rights in saudi arabia remains difficult. the european union continues to engage the saudi authorities on a number of human rights issues, including gender matters, and we consistently refer to the recommendation made during the last un universal periodic review process on saudi arabia, which was concluded in 2014. eu member states actively and constructively contributed to this exercise under the coordination of the european institutions. as you all know, the european union does not vote in elections within un political bodies. the decision on whether to support saudi arabia in the commission on the status of women belongs to our member states. but since saudi arabia has now been elected, i believe we should work to turn its membership of that commission into an opportunity for saudi women. saudi society is changing, more or less slowly but constantly. the country’s authorities are starting to talk about reforms, and this is something we should encourage, and are encouraging in our diplomatic contacts with them. the new crown prince has publicly said that he believes it is time for change in this respect. this year we have seen a timid but interesting attempt at reforming the guardianship system, the system that forces saudi women to ask for a man’s authorisation to travel, work or marry. a petition from local communities to introduce reform was signed by thousands. the saudi leadership has acknowledged that the current system is not efficient in economic terms and could be an obstacle in fulfilling the ambitious objectives the kingdom has set out in its ‘vision 2030’. for the sake of saudi women, we cannot miss any opportunity to encourage and accompany change in this country. we will continue to ask the saudi leadership to demonstrate that it takes gender equality seriously. a useful first step would be for saudi arabia to ratify the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. let me add that saudi women are very well organised and, with an international platform, i am sure that they can manage to make their voice heard. the un commission could offer this platform. we hope so. already many saudi women are fighting every day for their rights – like so many other women in all parts of the world. they are not subjugated, they are not resigned, and they are proud of what they have achieved with much hard work. these women can be the drivers of change inside their society. let us take this opportunity to amplify their voice, to support their work and to advance gender equality in saudi arabia and right throughout the middle east.
on behalf of the ppe group mr. president, when i heard that saudi arabia had been elected to the un commission on the status of women, i thought it was a mistake, because it is incredible that one of the most misogynistic countries in the world can be in a body dedicated to promoting gender equality and women's empowerment. how can you defend women's rights in a country that does not respect them, a country where it is a crime for men and women who are not related to each other to be together, a country where women cannot drive, a country where women are subjected to the guardianship of a man for life. do the women in this house imagine that to travel, to start a business, to receive medical treatment, to marry, to study or simply to walk down the street, they need the approval of a man? it seems unimaginable to me, and my only hope is that the inclusion of saudi arabia in this un commission on women will serve as a boost to improve the situation of women in a country where discrimination against them is systematic in law and in practice. it must be admitted, as the commissioner has said, that reforms are being made and this is opening a crack in intolerance, but it is very frustrating that the first council to be set up in saudi arabia on women was made up of men only. i want to end by denouncing all the countries where being gay is punishable by prison, and saudi arabia is one of them: another human rights violation that we have an obligation to denounce those who have the freedom to do so.
mr president, saudi arabia is a misogynist country, where women suffer systematic discrimination, where crimes against women go unpunished. society is governed by a male guardianship system: parents, siblings or partners decide whether a woman can study, get a job, or even get a driving licence. the country has been elected to the un commission on the status of women. it might sound like a joke if we weren't talking about a very serious subject, but it's not a joke, it's a joke we can't shut up about. the socialist and democratic group strongly condemns this appointment. and we also find it intolerable that this has been possible with the support of at least three countries of the european union, according to the information we have. we must ensure that the european commitment to upholding gender equality as a fundamental right is reflected in a coherent position of the european union and its member states. it is up to us not to allow these international bodies to lose their credibility. let us stand firm in defence of women's rights.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president: thank you, commissioner, for being here today, submitting to parliament's control, as it should, even though we are few and it is nine o'clock at night. i share the concerns expressed by my colleagues, but after careful consideration i must say that i do not share their solutions. yes, saudi arabia oppresses, subjugates and discriminates against women in a barbaric way. yes, we must fight tirelessly for every woman persecuted or imprisoned for defending her rights, human rights. but we should do it directly and with confidence in ourselves. having saudi arabia sit on the un commission on women, as iran has already done, allows us to tell the truth to our face, without complexes and without intermediaries. if the condemnation of the detention of loujain alhathloul, a women's rights activist, comes from a committee in which saudi arabia is represented, it will carry more weight. so, mr stylianides, i am not going to ask you to promote the exclusion of saudi arabia from this commission. i ask you to fight the paleolithic mentality of saudi arabia in and from the un commission on women. these committees should not be ivory towers for progressives to reason with each other and condemn the barbarians who are not present. citizens are tired of committees making resolutions that are then not implemented. let us defend our principles in front of saudi arabia, face to face; let us use the institutions to achieve the common goal. and if not, look at the case of my colleague beatrix von storch, who is not here today, my colleague and the toucan of the xenophobic far-right alternative für deutschland party. after a few years with us in the parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality, she now wholeheartedly supports her party's candidate, a lesbian woman who lives with another woman. well, let us do to saudi arabia what the european parliament has done to mrs von storch.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, regarding the situation of women in saudi arabia, which you have described and explained to us, we know what the situation is, the legal situation, the day-to-day life of women in saudi arabia: a real torment, a real aberration. but what interests me today is not just that - which is also - but the diplomatic failure of the member states of the european union which have allowed this situation to develop. five of them have agreed to it. and i would also like you to explain why you are coordinating positions within the framework of the united nations. they have that role, as the european external action service, and i would like to know what has happened, what ambassador almeida has said to them, how this situation has come about. and then i am also concerned, and i would also like you to explain to us - i know you do not vote, i know you are not there, but you play a role, i insist - what will happen to the work of the commission from now on, how we are going to allow the commission to continue with its normal work and not be hampered by a member who directly has a policy that is against women's rights. i would like you to clarify those two things as the european external action service, because that is what we are concerned about.
mr. president, i'm not going to tell you what happens in saudi arabia with women because we all know. we know this from the members of this house, the commissioner knows this and, above all, the member states of the european union who voted in favour of saudi arabia taking a seat on the un women council. here's the thing. i am not here to judge saudi arabia either, but rather to worry that member states of this union are capable of playing this heavy joke on us, and especially on saudi women, who are the worst affected by this decision. i have the impression that they do not realise how much this type of decision undermines the multilateral system, which is a multilateral system that many would like to see blow up. and these are arguments for those who want to blow up the multilateral system; and it is our duty, as representatives of the european union, its citizens and its institutions, to denounce this so that it never happens again.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, dear colleagues, you can realise my uncomfortable, personal position. you know well, and i share your concerns and i take note of your observations and your suggestions. definitely all of you know well my personal strong convictions about gender equality and, of course, about lgbti rights. nevertheless, saudi arabia continues to embody the complexity of the region, and i am not here today to defend any such decision. but i hope that constructive engagement after the new reality and a frank dialogue on issues of common interest will yield results. in this sense, this election to the un commission on the status of women will put the burden on the country to deliver and to show that it is determined to make real advances in this crucial field. of course, the first, useful step will be for saudi arabia to ratify the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. and the european union, and in particular the european commission, will naturally continue to plead for change and to assist any of our saudi counterparts in realising their social transformation. there is no doubt that, as the european commission, we will help any activities by the women in order to transform the social conditions and circumstances in saudi arabia. thank you so much for your strong advocacy. but at the same time we have to deal with the new reality in order to improve the circumstances inside saudi arabia.
in writing. it is unacceptable for saudi arabia to be part of the csw (commission on the legal and social status of women) of the united nations because it is a misogynist country, where women suffer from systematic discrimination and crimes against women are committed with impunity. society is governed by the male guardianship system: parents, brothers or husbands decide whether a woman can study, have a job, receive medical treatment or get a driving licence... there was no option to vote against the saudi arabian election, but only 7 of the 54 countries that voted abstained. twelve eu member states took part in this election. at least three, possibly more, voted in favor. this situation raises serious doubts about the coherence of the eu's position vis-à-vis the united nations. the eu treaty provides that the council and the high representative shall ensure that member states actively and fully respect the eu's external policy and ensure the consistency of the union's action. member states should ensure that their common commitment to upholding gender equality as a fundamental human right is also reflected in a coherent eu position in international bodies.
in writing. it is unacceptable for saudi arabia to be part of the csw (commission on the legal and social status of women) of the united nations because it is a misogynist country, where women suffer from systematic discrimination and crimes against women are committed with impunity. society is governed by the male guardianship system: parents, brothers or husbands decide whether a woman can study, have a job, receive medical treatment or get a driving licence... there was no option to vote against the saudi arabian election, but only 7 of the 54 countries that voted abstained. twelve eu member states took part in this election. at least three, possibly more, voted in favor. this situation raises serious doubts about the coherence of the eu's position vis-à-vis the united nations. the eu treaty provides that the council and the high representative shall ensure that member states actively and fully respect the eu's external policy and ensure the consistency of the union's action. member states should ensure that their common commitment to upholding gender equality as a fundamental human right is also reflected in a coherent eu position in international bodies.
in writing. it is unacceptable for saudi arabia to be part of the csw (commission on the legal and social status of women) of the united nations because it is a misogynist country, where women suffer from systematic discrimination and crimes against women are committed with impunity. society is governed by the male guardianship system: parents, brothers or husbands decide whether a woman can study, have a job, receive medical treatment or get a driving licence... there was no option to vote against the saudi arabian election, but only 7 of the 54 countries that voted abstained. twelve eu member states took part in this election. at least three, possibly more, voted in favor. this situation raises serious doubts about the coherence of the eu's position vis-à-vis the united nations. the eu treaty provides that the council and the high representative shall ensure that member states actively and fully respect the eu's external policy and ensure the consistency of the union's action. member states should ensure that their common commitment to upholding gender equality as a fundamental human right is also reflected in a coherent eu position in international bodies.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the council for the decision in 2014 to instruct the european external action service to start negotiations leading to an agreement with cuba. europe had limited itself in its relations with the island in december 1996 with the so-called common position. the european union actually self-imposed a blockade on that relationship, but really isolating cuba was not a good decision. a model negotiation has been worked on and concluded over a two-year period and the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states and cuba was signed in december 2016. the high representative deserves the credit of this parliament for having promoted the change of decision, for having pushed this agreement forward and for having politically led the negotiation. we are going to be able to close, in part, the map of political relations between the european union and latin america and the caribbean. cuba is no longer the exception with this agreement, and i think that is good news. the european union is thus joining the ranks of the other latin american and caribbean countries with which the european union will cooperate. i also want to congratulate cuba on this step. the result of the effective negotiation was an international political agreement that is both appropriate and sophisticated and meets the needs of a relationship that will be complex, certainly, and very sensitive. it is a model agreement from which there is much to be noted. i ask parliament to give its approval tomorrow to this political dialogue agreement with cuba, as our committee on development has done, unanimously; as our committee on foreign trade has done, practically unanimously; as our committee on foreign affairs has done by a very large majority. the three committees have worked hard and i have also worked hard, but i think the result is good. the groups also decided to draw up a resolution; i presented a text, which i think was balanced, and the difficult part came later. commitment after commitment, we have distilled the majority positions of this parliament and i accept that i have to thank all my colleagues who have accepted my limits. we have decided not to make demands but to set political objectives for the dialogue. we do not put conditions, but we set challenges to the political cooperation which is now beginning, and always with respect for the sovereignty and independence of cuba. i would like to ask you to look at the agreement rather than the resolution. i would like all the agreements that the european union will sign from now on to be as clear and well structured as this one, and also to make it as clear how the european union and its counterpart will work on human rights. with the agreement, we all win: cuba and us. i have no doubt that the union has an interest in cooperating with the island. the central countries of the union have shown this in the last two years: the president of the french republic, the vice-chancellor of germany, etc. have all travelled to cuba with the same objective and, shortly, the president of the spanish government and the king of spain will do so, who are preparing official visits for the coming months. we've always been interested in the relationship with cuba. virtually all the member states had bilateral agreements signed with the island, despite the common position, and in recent years the european union has become the island's first customer and first supplier. it has been a great responsibility for me to be the rapporteur on this very important step that cuba and the european union are taking. europe has a great opportunity to show the united states, which is trying to back down, that it is possible to maintain the highest level of demand with the highest level of compliance as well.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mrs mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by saying that i have no doubt, and neither does my group, that it is both appropriate and opportune for the european parliament to vote in favour of both the agreement and the accompanying resolution tomorrow. and not because the european union has ever gone beyond the limits of the common position, but because it wants to overcome the paralysis of a regime which is fortunately terminal. the european union is making a bold bet, and so are the united states, in the hope that a new era will begin for the new generations of cubans. and we, ladies and gentlemen, must accompany that effort. the resolution was the right place for the european parliament to express itself more freely and the right moment for the nuances and formulas of the meeting. in the resolution we have highlighted the commitments that the republic of cuba is making to the european union and the responsibility and willingness of both parties to comply with the terms of the agreement. the european union urges the cuban government to align its human rights policy with the international standards defined in the international charters, declarations and instruments to which cuba is a signatory or should be a signatory. the european union's role is to help the economic and political transition in cuba by encouraging the evolution towards democratic and electoral norms that respect the basic rights of all citizens and that boost trade in the region as well as economic cooperation. our group calls on the cuban authorities to open a democratic process which includes full respect for human rights, freedom of the media, the right to freedom of expression, assembly and association, and access to information in all its forms, and which culminates in free elections. i am grateful to the rapporteur for being as open as possible to the views of others, through commitments that unite many. unanimity is not always possible, but there is agreement on important issues. we were able to improve the initial report. i am confident that this agreement will serve a better cuba and, more importantly, the lives of the cuban people. it is an opportunity we cannot miss: the train of hope, ladies and gentlemen, is passing for the cuban people and they must take it. we hope, we wish that all this will lead unequivocally to a democracy without surnames, based on the will of the cuban people expressed by all, by political prisoners and in the street, to decide on their political, economic, social and cultural issues, and that freedom will triumph.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the alde group takes a firm stand on the human rights situation in cuba and therefore wanted to accompany this vote of assent with a resolution expressing our concerns. we must not forget that the defence and promotion of human rights is one of our foreign policy priorities. under this agreement, human rights dialogues have been held with cuba and no progress has been made. to this day, the cuban government continues to repress dissent and political criticism; it continues to hold political and prisoners of conscience such as mr. cardet, leader of the christian liberation movement in its prisons, where they receive deplorable treatment, or the case of daniel llorente, an opponent accused of public disorder and resistance, who has been locked up in a psychiatric hospital. freedom of movement is still restricted: just last month, saily navarro, the lady in white, whom we had officially invited to an event in this parliament, was prevented from travelling. the agreement contains a suspension clause in the event of human rights violations. this parliament and the european union cannot ignore the involution of basic freedoms in cuba and it is therefore their duty to monitor the situation and respect for human rights on the island. in conclusion, i would like to borrow a few words from the cuban artist and activist tania bruguera, who in this parliament, on the occasion of the same event, said: 'i hope that we can see cuba not only as a place of investment, but also as a country where citizens can be free'. i share the same wish and i also hope that the european union will not turn its back on cuban civil society.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we welcome the forthcoming signing of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of cuba, a bilateral agreement built on frank dialogue, respect between the parties, and openness to all issues: this is how we understand international relations. we also welcome this agreement because it represents the definitive burial of the infamous common position promoted by the 'figure of the azores' who tried to emulate, as a bad copy, the policy of aggression that the united states has maintained against cuba in order to achieve a government submissive to its interests. we shall vote in favour of the recommendation granting approval of this agreement. we shall not do the same with the report on the non-legislative motion for a resolution. it is fair to say that the first version drawn up by the rapporteur, mrs valenciano, was balanced, it was considered and all the groups could have subscribed to it. but as the devil is in the details, certain groups have turned this report, which has good things, into something that perverts the agreement, which seems to be a resolution that examines cuba, which aims to protect it in order to achieve a transition to neoliberal taste. some in this house should learn the lessons of history: if for more than fifty years the greatest power has not been able to subdue an island small in population but great in dignity and sovereignty, little can be done by the soft-coated version that drinks, deep down, from miami extremism.
on behalf of the green group, mr. president, tomorrow is an important day, we're going to validate the agreement. first of all, i would like to thank the foreign service and the high representative for the speed and the smooth running of these negotiations. i think it was a diplomatic success that is mainly yours, mrs mogherini. so thank you very much and congratulations. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on her good work. as the high representative has said, we have turned the page on history. we've entered a new phase and tomorrow we'll start walking on a new path. the only thing i regret is that some of the groups in this house have inserted in the text of the resolution elements which are more typical of the past, of the common position, than of the future. and the common position was not a good tool in relation to the island: it was clumsy, it was ineffective, it was dogmatic and, fortunately, we have left it behind. and the high representative has said it: the new context with the trump administration raises questions, and this is where the european union has to become strong and has to underpin the new scenario that president obama opened and that we now have a responsibility to help push forward.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow parliament will give its approval by a large majority to the political dialogue and cooperation agreement with cuba. parliament has asked that this approval be accompanied by a resolution. it is not surprising that some political groups have opposed this resolution, but it is even more surprising that those political groups which have unconditionally defended the cuban government are the ones who, in a hardly justifiable twist, are opposed to the agreement with canada. it is very difficult from a perspective of defending freedom, in which this parliament is always situated, to oppose a resolution which has only three findings: firstly, that, in a hierarchy of values, the european union bases its agreements on a democratic clause, in this case as in the other cases. secondly, the situation of dissent, peaceful dissidents, independent journalists and human rights defenders; and thirdly, a resolution which remembers the brave cubans who were awarded the sakharov prize: guillermo fariñas, the ladies in white and, of course, oswaldo payá, whose words resound in this chamber, saying that he had no hatred in his heart, but that he would not be dominated by fear. madam high representative, you referred to the words of pope francis. i think one of the most astute diagnoses that has been made about the situation in cuba is that made by pope john paul ii: that the world should open up to cuba and that cuba should open up to the world. the european union is opening up to cuba today, but unfortunately cuba has not yet opened up to the world, and that is why i hope and we ask that this agreement will at least help to put an end to the harassment, persecution and imprisonment of the cuban opposition.
mr president, i would like to add my congratulations to those of mrs mogherini and mrs valenciano. i think it is very important for the european union to occupy this political space which opens the door to relations with cuba. of course, it is important to end the common position, which has not produced results, and it is especially important to take advantage of what in geopolitics we call the "left space of the american administration", which seems to want to reverse obama's positions. but i think it is also important for cuba because democracy and human rights in cuba - which i believe is a goal we all have - are going to be favoured by this agreement. because this is going to help the reformist forces in cuba. there are reformist forces, inside and outside the regime, which are going to take advantage of this opening up and this agreement to promote democracy. we have found the opposite: that hostility reinforces immobility. that is why this agreement is important and why we have taken a fair and intelligent step on this occasion.
madam president, in the european parliament we will approve the political dialogue and cooperation agreement with cuba, which will normalize relations between the island and the union and, moreover, will allow them to be fully resumed. it puts an end to twenty years of common position, twenty years of paternalism and blockade, which have simply not been useful, effective, in influencing the island and the future of the cuban people. it took months of tireless work by our high representative, federica mogherini, and the rapporteur of the european parliament, elena valenciano, whom i would like to congratulate, to get us here. but above all, the agreement is an instrument for dialogue, cooperation and mutual understanding; an instrument which must be able to stand in contrast to the united states and the new trump administration and occupy the enormous space left open; an instrument to influence effectively on the island, to improve the lives of cubans, to improve our political, commercial and economic ties; and, above all, to gain dialogue and presence in latin america, a strategic region for the union in its foreign policy.
madam president, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement aims to fully normalise the union's relations with cuba, as the island was one of the few countries that did not have such an agreement with the european union. cuba is at a decisive stage, which i believe can shape its future. the relay of the island's historical leadership will soon continue. the winds of change are blowing in cuba and it is important that the union can develop its full potential there, which will happen thanks to this agreement. i hope that it will contribute not only to political modernization but also to economic modernization and to the prosperity of a cuban people with a very low standard of living. the agreement does not mean that we are abandoning our principles and values in the field of human rights, pluralist democracy and respect for fundamental freedoms. the agreement and the resolution which we shall be voting on tomorrow - paragraphs 7 to 14 - insist on these principles. i would like to stress paragraphs 7 and 12 on human rights defenders and the necessary release of political prisoners. and i also want to emphasize the fact that the agreement covers - i think i have a minute and a half, chairwoman - an institutionalized dialogue on human rights... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i do not know whether my generation and i will see a real european political union; i do not know whether we will see the end of the social imbalances that part of globalisation is producing; i do not know whether my generation and i will see the end of the fatal attraction of part of our societies to authoritarian regimes, a product of our insecurities caused by this globalisation. what i do know is that my generation and i will see the end of the dictatorship and the arrival of freedom and democracy for our cuban brothers. that is my wish, which is absolutely compatible with any action that is taken to improve that peaceful transition on the island to democracy. i believe that the work being carried out by our vice-president mogherini and many european diplomats is worthy of being followed in that dialogue and cooperation which they want to carry out, of course, and as with any action whose ultimate aim is to facilitate the democratic future of the cuban people, so respect, desire and support. i do address the european left, the democratic left, and i say to them: do not add another brick to the cuban berlin wall.
madam president, my group supports the eu-cuba agreement, which is the normalisation of relations. we shall vote against the motion for a resolution which is proposed as an interference. we reject the european instrument for democracy and human rights which is intended to finance the opposition and promote regime change in cuba. relations and dialogue with cuba must be based on scrupulous respect for its decisions, without interference and without attempting to impose changes that the cuban people do not decide. the blockade imposed by the united states on cuba limits the development of its people and ties with the european union, and as regards human rights - as i said in another speech yesterday - let us first put our house in order, because in spain trade unionists are imprisoned for exercising the right to strike, journalists are being hindered and impeded, and the government delegate in galicia acknowledges that they control, monitor and investigate people who regularly attend demonstrations. and we still dare to lecture others on human rights.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you very much, mrs mogherini, for your words and for your commitment. i would ask you a small favour: tell mr juncker that we are working very late in parliament today. well, i think that on the path of political dialogue with cuba we will see if the results we all hope for are achieved. i think it is. in the work of preparing the approval, the agreement, i have seen that there is a large majority in the house in favour. it is true that the resolution has been very controversial, because where the political groups put the main ideology, as we have seen, the distance is enormous. cuba is cuba, it is a very important international actor, as it has shown on many occasions; without going any further, in the very important dialogue for peace in colombia. and there are many things we would like to change about cuba, as well as many of the countries with which we have relations - of course we do - but it is up to cubans to take this path, as did the spanish men and women, or the poles, or all the peoples of europe. it's their turn to make the road. it is up to us to dialogue, to cooperate in defence of our values, of course, and to try to understand each other. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their speeches and, in particular, the alternative rapporteurs on this report, javier couso of the gue, ernest urtasun of the greens, teresa jiménez of alde and luis de grandes of the european people's party. as you can see, a cast of spanish meps. for us the answer to the question of whether the relationship between cuba and the european union is deep is very clear. it is. it is for spain and therefore it must be for europe. when something is difficult in politics, only rigour, generosity, flexibility and a few doses of patience can find the optimal solution. i ask you, as a parliament, to allow the european union and its member states to accompany cuba in its future, in the path they decide, because it is its people who must do so, always on the basis of sovereignty, independence and freedom, which are also our values.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, since 2011 our parliament has recognised the need to integrate culture into the union's external relations. i would like to thank mr silvia costa and mr elmar brok for their work and the high representative, mrs federica mogherini, for the joint communication on a european union strategy for international cultural relations. we stress in the text the importance of culture as a tool for diplomacy and call for it to be recognised as the fourth pillar of sustainable development and as a human right. among the concrete measures we recommend: an annual action plan with a separate budget line to support international cultural relations; a mechanism for the prevention, evaluation and reconstruction of endangered heritage, including an emergency instrument to safeguard heritage in countries in conflict; the inclusion of culture in all existing and future agreements of the european union with third countries. the political objective of this report is to foster cultural cooperation between the union and its partner countries and to promote a world order based on peace, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. in the long term, cultural cooperation within and outside europe which respects basic values of civilization and common principles is the only way to achieve this desired order. we need to promote international cultural cooperation, understood in the broadest possible sense, from policies to safeguard cultural heritage to scientific diplomacy capable of spreading more rationality and love of knowledge in a divided world. the development of prosperous and cooperative cultures also represents a 'vaccine' to prevent movements, for example, of migrants who are destabilizing for the receiving countries and who are also not the solution for the countries of origin, as we are sadly seeing these days.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, including the cultural dimension in the union's relations with other countries is an essential aspect of strengthening friendly, peaceful international relations based on mutual respect, dialogue and strengthening or promoting human development in all its dimensions. it is also an opportunity for the european union to be recognised as a major global player in this field, in the field of soft power, but also to project its common culture and its diversity as a factor, a value and a wealth to be preserved; a diversity which, by the way, goes far beyond the diversity of the member states, the majority cultures or the official languages of this house. we are particularly pleased that our proposal for a cultural visa for artists and other professionals in the cultural world has been included in the report.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr brok and mrs costa on their report. the european union and its member states are a great cultural power. european culture is and must be a very useful instrument in international relations, and i believe that the european union and its member states should coordinate their efforts in this area. i also understand culture as a vehicle for understanding, not as an instrument of confrontation; i believe in intercultural dialogue as a bridge between countries and communities of different origins in such a complex world, where many want to divide and polarize. i would also like to stress the importance of the council of europe's cultural routes programme. this programme is very important for strengthening european identity, promoting tourism, preserving the cultural heritage of european countries and, in addition, many of these cultural routes also run through countries belonging to our southern and eastern neighbourhood. the european union should therefore increase its support for this programme, which is managed by the european institute of cultural routes, as it will help to strengthen relations with neighbouring and candidate countries, as stated in paragraph 80 of tomorrow's report.
madam president, i must first of all congratulate the rapporteur, mr andrey kovatchev, on his report, which addresses many of the challenges we face, challenges which are common, global, and therefore require a collective response. and that is why i welcome the efforts being made by the united nations in areas such as, firstly, the fight against terrorism, in matters of international judicial cooperation and financing; sustainable development, including the processes of implementing the 2030 agenda and the implementation of the paris agreement; and the mass displacement of people, through the follow-up of last year's high-level meeting. we must maintain the european union's commitment to multilateralism, in the face of isolationist or protectionist temptations that create division and uncertainty. the united nations is the cornerstone of multilateralism. the european union, which must be a global actor, a factor of peace, stability and progress, must continue to work actively in and with the united nations. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world, and the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you, commissioner jourová and commissioner oettinger, for being here at this late hour of the night, on the verge of midnight. after hours of debating strategic guidelines, recommendations and the situation in countries over which the european union cannot legislate because it has no jurisdiction over them... finally a legislative initiative! finally, a piece of legislation under discussion in this house; nothing less than the one that best expresses the political dimension, including the constitutional ambition of the european union, because it is european criminal legislation, finally, in the protection of the financial interests of the union, in the protection of the european budget against fraud on a european scale. it has been years of debate in which i am very grateful for the cooperation of the rapporteur for the cont committee, mrs gräßle. we have worked for more than four years to achieve this objective of the area of freedom, justice and security, this directive which harmonises european legislation, making fraud against the european budget an objective of european criminal law which will be necessary to set up the european public prosecutor's office, provided for in article 86, with the protection of financial interests as its first competence, but it is to be hoped that it will be possible to extend it to other serious crimes of a transnational scale in implementation of article 83 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the member states. and that is exactly what this directive does with regard to fraud, corruption, misappropriation and embezzlement, by finally establishing minimum penalties, minimum penalties and a penalty of up to four years' imprisonment for these offences - of course, optional for the judge, to be decided by the judge. but the really important objective is that parliament has entered into a dialogue with the council, and this dialogue has lasted no less than two and a half years, because we adopted the first reading in april 2014 and we have been discussing with the council four main issues... the commission is also proposing to include vat fraud as an objective of european criminal law, which the council has opposed. we have finally succeeded in ensuring that this financial resource of the union - because it is indeed a budgetary resource of the union - is covered by this directive. the final commitment states that vat fraud will have to be of a significant amount over eur 10 million and that it will have to be cross-border in nature, i.e. involving at least two member states of the union. secondly, the discussion on fraud in public procurement is at european level, and the council is committed to considering the matter in the future implementation of the directive. minimum and maximum sanctions: a minimum sanction, applicable throughout the union, for fraud and related offences, with a commitment of at least up to four years' imprisonment, provided that the fraud amounts to at least eur 100 million. it is a necessary objective to protect the financial interests of the union. and the discussion on the limitation period, which is what is becoming ever more heterogeneous and divergent in the national legislation of the member states: we have established a standard term of at least five years from the date of the alleged offence, but it can be reduced to three years in the event that there has been an interruption of the limitation period by national legislation, in accordance with the relevant considerations in the process when the suspect has fled the country or had to be extradited before the process can continue. we are therefore dealing with a piece of european criminal law. finally, european criminal legislation that meets the objective set by the lisbon treaty, the area of freedom, justice and security, which is necessary for the council to finally be able to adopt its enhanced cooperation, to launch the european public prosecutor's office, which will undoubtedly be a result of this legislature's rapid legislative achievements in developing the area of freedom, justice and security. this legislature, which has been slow to meet the objectives of the lisbon treaty, is today finally striking a goal at the real door.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the area of vat. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would therefore like to extend my warmest congratulations to the co-pilots, mrs gräßle and mr lópez aguilar, for having managed to bring this ship to a safe harbour and, of course, to the stewards, mrs jourová and mr oettinger. i congratulate you very much, not only for making history in terms of criminal law and for having succeeded in fighting fraud against the resources of the european budget and in giving the tax authorities that legal basis, but also because, in a way, today we have rescued vat, we have defended it against those who at one time and in some state secretariat, in berlin in particular, wanted to end vat as a resource of the european budget. in that sense, i congratulate myself tonight as well.
the rapporteur. - madam president, this morning, more than 12 hours ago, in this very chamber, we paid tribute to simone veil, the symbol of the first parliament directly elected by the european people 38 years ago. since then this parliament has grown, it has matured. finally, it is a legislative parliament; it legislates on fundamental rights and nothing less than on criminal law, a competence traditionally attributed exclusively to the sovereignty of the member states. it is time to say very clearly that this parliament matters, that it is not a second-rate parliament; to say it to the 500 million citizens whom this parliament represents and to say it with particular courage, at a time when we are adopting criminal legislation which also provides additional resources in the protection of the financial interests of the union, when they are so necessary to supply the wreckage of austerity policy, to provide the necessary resources to restore the damaged european social model, so that the whole policy of the european social model that made europe the best can once again make sense. i think it is time for this parliament to assert its legislative, regulatory and binding character, because it frames criminal law and legislation on matters as important as fundamental rights in the data protection of the national parliaments of the, still today, twenty-eight member states; that it is a parliament which can really improve the lives of citizens and can provide resources in something as important as the fight against crossborder vat fraud, large-scale fraud which costs billions to the european budget, as it is a fundamental resource for the financing of the european union. and this parliament is doing it, demanding from the commission and demanding from the council. we are putting european criminal law into effect. we now want the council to finally put forward the enhanced cooperation of the european public prosecutor's office and complete the architecture desired for the area of freedom, justice and security in europe.
mr president, council and commission, it should be remembered that there has never been a single period in the history of mankind in which progress has been made, in which progress has been made by isolation and protectionism. that's something you should never forget. but today more than ever, in a globalised society, only through an open economy and an open society can we continue to move forward. that is why the european union must maintain a position of consistent leadership in the g20 in the face of the isolationist tendencies that some countries are now showing. this is essential. but openness and non-isolationism start at home. the digital single market must be a reality, because it is the key to the global competitiveness of our economy. the fact that the estonian presidency has made digital issues a flagship during this period is therefore to be welcomed. and in that sense i have to say that i am confident that we can reach agreement on the european electronic communications code and thus contribute to the full connectivity that our companies and our society need.
mr president, commissioner timmermans, the g20 is not a formalized structure or acts as a single legal entity in the international community; the european union is, and is represented in the g20 not only by the commission but by up to five member states of the european union. and it would be very good if there were no cacophony, but rather unity of position to stand up to the populist in charge, who withdraws the united states from the climate change pact; and to demand a ruthless fight against evasion, avoidance and, of course, tax havens, to fight the globalization of exasperating inequality; but, above all, to demand a global response to the challenge of migration. and for that, it would be very good if the european union honoured the treaty of lisbon and the commitment and mandate of solidarity between the member states; if it did not leave italy alone and abandoned to its fate; and if it did, at once, establish legal channels and humanitarian visas so that the desperate of the earth would have a chance to try to reach europe without giving themselves up to the mafias or losing their lives in the attempt.
in writing. the g20 is not a formalized structure nor does it act as a single legal entity in the international community; the european union is, and is represented at the g20 not only by the commission but by up to five eu member states. it is essential that there is no cacophony, but unity of position to speak with one voice in the face of donald trump and his desire to withdraw the united states from the pact against climate change; and to demand a relentless fight against evasion, avoidance and, of course, tax havens, that combats the globalization of exasperating inequality; but, above all, to demand a global response to the challenge of migration. and for that, it would be very good if the european union honoured the treaty of lisbon and the commitment and mandate of solidarity between the member states; if it did not leave italy alone and abandoned to its fate; and if it did, at once, establish legal channels and humanitarian visas so that the desperate of the earth would have a chance to try to reach europe without giving themselves up to the mafias or losing their lives in the attempt.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am happy to intervene in this session on behalf of my group. estonia has chosen four main objectives for the next six months. the logical order of these four objectives seems clear. the inclusive and sustainable europe that estonia wants to promote, as the fourth objective, will be closer if the first three objectives are achieved. they consist in the promotion of an open and innovative economy, and, as required by that, security in daily life as well as significant advances in the modern digital world and the exchange of information. these three goals may certainly facilitate a more inclusive and sustainable europe. the programme adds in its introduction that, in pursuing those objectives, prime minister, you will respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. so far, so good. however, i would have liked to see an entire chapter in the programme devoted specifically to the defence of human rights, not just as a consequence to be drawn from other objectives but as a specific objective in itself. estonia, which is a small country and is a friend of my country, catalonia, must be guided not only by the logic of inclusion and sustainability but also by the explicit defence of human rights. indeed, the human-rights deficit is not found only in third countries, which we constantly criticise: unfortunately it also occurs in many countries within the union. i am confident and convinced that, in the months to come, estonia will go in the direction of denouncing any breach of fundamental rights in the european union. having said this, i must also say that my group is pleased with the announcement of this project. we can only wish the best to estonia and to europe under this new presidency.
madam president, estonia is taking over the presidency at a time of great political decisions. its main diplomatic challenge is undoubtedly syria, where only dialogue with the current government and respect for international law can end the war. europe has a commitment to peace which is at serious risk if the commitment to military adventurism and the increase in defence budgets to the detriment of public policies is confirmed. its priorities are clear: banking, energy, digitisation, business environment and yet it has missed a key part in this technological transformation that it suggests. and it is the workers and the necessary framework for social dialogue, to generate quality employment, to combat precariousness and to end the deregulation of working conditions and to stop contributing to generating a new source of inequality, such as the digital divide. you are proposing continuity today, maintaining economic policy objectives in the face of social and environmental objectives, and this is not the way for european workers.
madam president, after having passed the european electoral interpass and having spent the last few months thinking, the time for action has come. it is true that we have been, over the last few years, chaining crisis after crisis, some of which we have not yet solved - from the refugee crisis to the economic crisis - but the arrival of real internal and external threats, existential for the union and for everything we represent in the world, gives us the great opportunity to take steps forward in integration, to learn from our mistakes and to respond to the citizens' concerns, taking steps forward, towards a safer and stronger europe, more influential abroad; a more flexible and effective europe; and a more sensitive and fair europe, which citizens feel protective of. but the social dimension will be the only way to restore legitimacy to the european project. so let us take advantage of the social summit and put the european pillar of social rights into action, because we are losing our legitimacy in all this.
in writing. in recent years, we have seen crisis after crisis, some of which are still ongoing from refugees to the economic crisis. but the arrival of real internal and external threats, existential threats to the union and to everything we represent in the world, gives us a great opportunity to take steps forward in integration, to learn from our mistakes and to respond to citizens' malaise by taking steps forward, towards a safer and stronger europe, more influential abroad; a more flexible and effective europe; and a more sensitive and fair europe, which citizens feel is protecting them. the legitimacy of the european project can only be restored if it is given a real social dimension. the estonian presidency is faced with this situation. with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis. as socialists, we will work together to make these objectives possible.
in writing. in recent years we have seen crisis after crisis, some of which are still in force, from refugees to the economic crisis. but the arrival of real internal and external threats, existential threats to the union and to everything we represent in the world, gives us a great opportunity to take steps forward in integration, to learn from our mistakes and to respond to citizens' discomfort by taking steps forward, towards a safer and stronger europe, more influential abroad; a more flexible and effective europe; and a more sensitive and fair europe, which citizens feel is protecting them. the legitimacy of the european project can only be restored through a social dimension. the estonian presidency is faced with this situation. with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis. as socialists, we will work together to make these objectives possible.
in writing. in recent years we have seen crisis after crisis, some of which are still in force, from refugees to the economic crisis. but the arrival of real internal and external threats, existential threats to the union and to everything we represent in the world, gives us a great opportunity to take steps forward in integration, to learn from our mistakes and to respond to citizens' discomfort by taking steps forward, towards a safer and stronger europe, more influential abroad; a more flexible and effective europe; and a more sensitive and fair europe, which citizens feel is protecting them. the legitimacy of the european project can only be restored through a social dimension. the estonian presidency is faced with this situation. with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis. as socialists, we will work together to make these objectives possible.
in writing. in recent years we have seen crisis after crisis, some of which are still in force, from refugees to the economic crisis. but the arrival of real internal and external threats, existential threats to the union and to everything we represent in the world, gives us a great opportunity to take steps forward in integration, to learn from our mistakes and to respond to citizens' discomfort by taking steps forward, towards a safer and stronger europe, more influential abroad; a more flexible and effective europe; and a more sensitive and fair europe, which citizens feel is protecting them. the legitimacy of the european project can only be restored through a social dimension. the estonian presidency is faced with this situation. with an ambitious agenda: an open and inclusive economy, the protection of european citizens, the environment or jobs by tackling the migration crisis. as socialists, we will work together to make these objectives possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, just a second to thank the political groups for the work we have done over these months to bring this agreement between the european union and cuba to this house today. i think we can send a positive message. at a time when the world is being reordered, the european union can maintain fruitful cooperation with latin america and the caribbean. cuba was an exception and today it may no longer be.
the rapporteur. madam president, just a moment to thank mrs gräßle, co-rapporteur of this important criminal legislation initiative, and the members who took part in the debate, just after midnight this morning, a criminal legislation initiative which frames the criminal legislation of the member states and shows that this parliament matters, by criminally legislating against fraud against the european budget and, consequently, by securing the necessary resources to repair the battered european social model. this parliament really matters. i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this directive into the council.
madam president, also on behalf of my group, the left group, we have voted in favour of the european union's agreement with cuba, which means that relations are finally being normalized. we also welcome the fact that this parliament has once and for all supported this agreement, which buries the infamous common position of the european union against cuba, which was also promoted by the aznar government in 1996. it was a poor attempt to copy the blockade imposed by the united states, which fortunately most of the member states of the union did not follow, since most of them maintained bilateral relations with the island. the isolation of cuba has not worked, and the european union has been judicious in its reconsideration; and, as mrs mogherini said last night, this eu-cuba agreement is based on a frank, constructive and sincere dialogue between the two parties on an equal footing. that is why, as mrs mogherini also said, the european union and parliament reiterate our call for an end to the blockade and deplore the recent announcement by the trump administration.
madam president, i do not know whether we are aware - although not many are listening - that a rather strange situation has arisen this morning, because no work programme has been adopted which parliament has sent to the commission. this seems to me rather ridiculous, much more so than what mr juncker said yesterday, because what has actually happened is a lack of agreement between the groups for the european parliament to send the commission its work programme for next year. and unfortunately there is no proposal from parliament. and why, we might have to ask. because we each voted for our own proposal and the proposal put forward by the epp, alde and ecr groups did not succeed, because different amendments were received from different groups. the fact is that it has become clear that there is no stable majority in this parliament unless there is agreement with the socialist group. that is what we have seen today and unfortunately this parliament has done a disservice to its own prestige by not being able to present its working document. this is the reality.
madam president, today's resolution calls once again for the european union to support the work of the special representative of the united nations secretary-general for western sahara and, to this end, to give effect to the right of self-determination of the saharawi people. next tuesday the trial of the gdeim izik prisoners will resume, in which independent observers have highlighted serious violations of international law, starting with the convention against torture: a political trial against the saharawi people and their desire for independence. the european union must act and suspend its agreements with morocco, as even the court of justice demands, until morocco ceases its occupation and colonization of the saharawi people. international law and the un charter are clear: only a referendum on self-determination can put an end to the plundering and exile of the saharawi people. we'll work together to get it done.
madam president, the report we are going to adopt tomorrow, which is comprehensive and balanced, calls for the suspension of accession negotiations if the constitutional reform package is implemented unchanged. suspension would be bad news for those like me in the european union and turkey who would like to see turkey become a member state in the near future. we would have preferred to talk about freezing the negotiations instead of suspension, but if we want to see the glass half full, this warning also leaves some room for hope, the hope that the turkish government changes its course and goes back to where it should never have departed from: the defence of democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is useless to keep pretending that you can negotiate while there are over 100 journalists and over a dozen kurdish mayors and some mps in jail, when there has been a huge collective dismissal of civil servants and when many media have been closed down. but if we cannot have negotiations, let’s at least keep the door open to dialogue.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate and acknowledge the work done by the rapporteur, kati piri, in this report on turkey and to send four messages, four ideas. one: it is clear that turkey is living through turbulent years, very turbulent times, from the terrible coup d'état to the continuing retreat of democratic rights in the country to the consolidation of that democratic retreat in a very polarizing referendum on an extreme situation; two: the european parliament sends this message with this report: the european union must reconsider the way it cooperates with turkey, especially because we need a more influential, more influential way; three: we follow very closely what is happening in the country: the march for justice, the goodwill, from unity, on the part of the opposition of freedom, to demand freedom for prisoners and freedom for politicians; and four: the time is now, with a dialogue at the highest level between the european commission and turkey that must forge a new relationship of cooperation and dialogue, but, once and for all, stopping the usual business.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, so far this year almost 100 000 people have arrived on european shores, having had to leave their countries, their homes, their families. this morning, 49 died trying to reach the spanish coast. because the greatest tragedy is not that they arrive, the greatest tragedy is that they lose their lives in the attempt. today we are debating in this house the launch of the european fund for sustainable development, a fund which, unfortunately, will not completely eradicate the causes for which these people are forced to emigrate, but which aims to invest in their countries of origin in order to achieve sustainable development, to give them the opportunity to live in their country and to have a decent life project. the causes of migration are many and complex, but the most important are security, economic, environmental and social factors. the objective of this fund is precisely to tackle these causes at their root, by investing in projects that contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. because this fund must be a complement to official development aid, it must pursue the same objectives, but it cannot and must not be a substitute. because what we want is to mobilise private investment up to 44 billion, using the european budget as a guarantee, developing innovative mechanisms and thus reducing investor uncertainty. the involvement of the private sector in the economic and social development of these countries is a strategic objective. and this fund will not act alone - we have already mentioned it here - it is part of the external investment plan which has a technical assistance component to help partner countries attract that investment, private capital, and help prepare and promote projects that could benefit from this fund. and it also has a third pillar, which is fundamental to achieving the objectives, which is based on political dialogue, with the aim of developing a legal framework, policies and institutions that promote the necessary stability. this policy dialogue covers everything from the fight against corruption, tax fraud, organised crime, to the promotion of entrepreneurship, the development of local markets or a gender-inclusive policy. this parliament, with its proposals and during the negotiations, has sought and succeeded in improving the definition and concreteness of the objectives. in this way, we have wanted to place particular emphasis on funding projects that have a real impact and that focus on creating decent jobs, that follow a strategy of sustainable and inclusive growth, and with a particular focus on the empowerment of women and youth. as i said at the beginning, migration has multiple causes, and one of them, to which we often do not pay the attention it deserves, is migration for environmental reasons. and in this sense, i believe that the agreements we have reached in parliament and in the council allow us to allocate more resources to the fight against climate change, to renewable energy and to energy efficiency. finally, i would like to highlight the very important step we have taken in the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering, and the elimination of any links with non-cooperative jurisdictions. and here i would especially like to thank the european commission for its determination to make the fight against tax fraud a priority, for pushing for greater controls, country-by-country reporting and improved accountability. parliament, and i know the european commission and the council, have been working against the clock to get this fund launched as soon as possible and to make it operational in view of the eastern partnership and european union-africa summits. i hope that this fund will be the first step in a renewed commitment by the union to the development of the countries around us. we cannot allow thousands of people to continue to leave their homes for lack of opportunities, risking their lives, dying at sea or in the desert, because we in the european union have not done all that was in our power.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. i am going to be quite critical of this fund, mr president, because this european fund is called 'sustainable development', but it does not seek cooperation for development or the sustainability of development. it seems again to be propaganda by the european union to clean up its image in the face of the nefarious management of the border crisis. when people say that we have to act at home in the face of forced immigration from war, hunger or climate change, they are certainly not talking about this type of funding. the aim of this fund is to relieve consciences and to make the border states a wall against this forced immigration, a style which, unfortunately, the spanish popular party has already invented on the southern border with morocco. to do this, the european union is using the same trick of bad magic: a juncker-style fund that will cover possible losses from private investments, but in this case, losses from european multinationals doing business in southern countries. development cooperation is not about watching our backs so that other countries can be our border guards; it is not about seeing what financial tricks we use to make a good business out of these investments. the european fund for sustainable development should be used to enable equitable development, to help local actors rather than transnational ones, and to put resources towards endogenous social and sustainable development. to make the policy of cooperation dependent on the control of migration flows is machiavellian. we must disconnect cooperation from migration policy; otherwise we are not cooperating, we are profiting.
mr president, by approving this instrument, we are not only mobilising some 44 000 million euro to create job opportunities in many countries in africa and our neighbourhood, but above all we are sending a signal: the signal that the european union has changed its way of looking at problems, that it has changed its behaviour. it is not just about responding to the consequences of migration, or refugees, or poverty in africa; it is about attacking the causes that promote this exodus, that impoverish those countries and that in turn make it difficult for us to manage our borders. but what is at stake is putting opportunities into investments that maintain official development assistance, that are consistent with climate change and the 2030 agenda, that fight tax havens and that ultimately provide less developed countries with job opportunities that avoid having to migrate or having to flee as a result of conflict.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, as you have seen, there has been a great deal of support for the agreement we have reached with the commission and the council and i hope that this great support will be reflected in the vote tomorrow. now, as you said, it's time to get real and get it going. if you have listened carefully to the debate, many members have drawn attention to the commitments we have made with the commission, the accountability, the coordination that must be made between the commission and parliament, the explanation of the investment windows, but there has also been a great deal of emphasis - and i emphasized this in my first speech - on the fight against tax fraud and non-cooperation with tax havens. so we very much hope that, as the commissioner said, they will follow the rules to the letter and in particular article 15, which refers to these reports of accounts which they have to submit to the european parliament, and article 20, where we talk about taxation. and i just want to end, obviously, by thanking my co-authors, because it's been a pleasure working with them. it is true that it has been difficult to coordinate three committees, but i think we have achieved it in record time. of course, the european commission played a key role in the negotiations, and the council - especially the maltese presidency, which has been leading these negotiations - as well as the alternative rapporteurs, the committee chairmen - we all contributed and worked as a team and i think the result of the negotiations was good because we managed to work as a team, and of course, if possible, more than ever, the secretariats of the three committees and the three political groups. as i was saying, working three commissions has been very complicated. it has been a very delicate regulation and if it had not been for your detailed work we would not have been able to reach this agreement in that record time of four months. now we have to get it going and hopefully we'll see the fruits soon.
mr president, european development policy must reflect the mandate of this house, starting with the implementation of strategies to achieve the sustainable development goals. but we are concerned to see that many of the principles defended in these forums are not translated into the policies of the union. a development policy that focuses on the interests of people and not just our businesses requires cross-cutting approaches, that do not relegate the principles of justice, equity and environmental sustainability to mere pretty words to calm our consciences. there are principles that must be respected to ensure consistency between the union's policies, such as the non-conditionality of aid to the externalisation and militarisation of our borders, the implementation of binding instruments in trade policy for the effective defence of human rights and environmental justice, compliance with the 0.7% target, or the promotion of fair and transparent tax systems. we must not make the mistake of turning development policies into commercial or security and defence strategies. let us not pervert the founding values of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, to talk about sustainable development is to promote food sovereignty, it is to promote energy sovereignty, it is to abandon industrial agriculture, it is to set binding targets for reducing the overall consumption of energy from materials. in 2003, the planet's regenerative capacity was exceeded by 25 percent. the planet will not withstand the sustainable development proposed by the european union, proposed by the centre. we must abandon this development based on economic growth, speculation and massive global trade. we must promote the relocation of industries and production, change the model of transport of people, giving priority to collective use over individual use. in the land transport of goods, bet on the railway. the european union must also put an end to the plundering of the natural resources of developing countries. only then will the 2030 goals not become dead letter.
mr president, commissioner, minister, the parliament's delegation attending next week's high level political forum on sustainable development will have a lot of work to do. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial offence'. we must tackle the root of the problem, bearing in mind that in 2014, 122 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to commission figures. the commission itself has said that it would take 70 years, if we continue on the present course, to achieve full equality. how do i explain to my daughters that for the same job they will earn 16% less than their brother simply because they were born girls and that only their grandchildren will live in a reality which should be normal today? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one. there will be talk of food security, of industrialization, of emissions, of innovation, of protecting our oceans... all of these are key issues and huge challenges for the 2030 agenda, as we still have a long way to go to transform the words spoken and the objectives set out on paper into deeds that our citizens feel fulfilled. this is our duty: delivery.
mr president, first of all, my congratulations to mr dance on an ambitious report on sustainability. i would like to focus on and underline the aspect of the environment and climate change as the source of new inequalities in the world. and that is that, in order to combat it, i think it's crucial to recognize the socioeconomic value that the environment has. i therefore want to stress and especially welcome paragraph 23, which calls for sufficient resources to finance the environment. in short, coherence in the european union between the policies and actions we are calling for. the many recommendations that are being made to the european union to preserve the environment need to be accompanied by sufficient financial resources. we therefore need specific and sufficient funds to finance the natura 2000 network, the habitat directive or the european union's forest reafforestation plan. so to decarbonize the economy, we first need to preserve and value the environment. in short, consistency between what we do and what we say in the european union, with a view to the environment.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr president, mr chauprade and french colleagues, french speakers, from strasbourg or wherever, i think you have the wrong debate. i would like to remind you that what we are discussing here and what we are seeking is to agree whether or not it is necessary to have a single seat for the european parliament, not to decide whether it is strasbourg or not, not to make a claim to the goodness of strasbourg, not to make a claim to the historical, cultural or heritage of strasbourg. if we can decide together that we must have only one seat, as we have been asking for years, we will decide later, with a thorough analysis, which seat is to be used.
mr president, we are here because being in strasbourg reminds us of our raison d'être. we are here because alsace reminds us every day why the founding fathers conceived the european union: to unite us, to overcome the borders that separate us, not to invent problems where there are none. the founders couldn't all be wrong. kohl, neither of you. and the images of the starry blue over the remains of the chancellor, here in strasbourg, with president clinton squaring in front of him, have gone around the world. strasbourg is the symbol of reconciliation and peace among europeans. to tear parliament away is to tear the soul and identity of the european project. symbols are important, they have no price and they are not to be played with. i shall end, mr president, with the debate on the agencies. don't you like lille? bet on barcelona, she's ready. the spanish government is working closely with the generalitat of catalonia and the city council, in an exemplary way, together, to bring this agency to an end in barcelona. it is a fundamental strategic project for which we will compete thoroughly and to the end.
mr president, the populists have convinced many people that the institutions of the european union are throwing money away: that is a big lie; but the populists and nationalists do not need the truth at all, they are satisfied with small truths mixed with big lies to deceive the citizens. to defeat populism, we must do two things: expose its lies and make it unassailable. the european union does not waste in general, but to maintain two european parliament seats means an extra cost of 180 million euros a year and an environmental cost of 19 000 tonnes of co2: an unacceptable waste in a europe which has yet to recover from the crisis and which, moreover, is in a new phase of efficient and reformist europeanism. we in the european parliament want a single seat and we have said this many times; a flexible and efficient european union would have solved this problem. but in addition to the economic cost, there is a political cost: by not abolishing one of the headquarters we are giving arguments to the enemies of the union. strasbourg is a symbol of peace and reconciliation, we cannot allow it to become a symbol of waste. and this is the moment.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr omarjee for his report. the situation of the outermost regions is unique, as is recognised in article 349 of the treaty. this report comes at a very appropriate time as the commission is preparing a renewed strategy on these regions, which should be adopted by the end of october 2017. the report calls for more extensive use of article 349 of the treaty. i would like to reassure you that the commission, within the framework of the upcoming renewed strategy on the outermost regions, and on the basis of article 349, will look at all eu policies and consider, when relevant and justified, whether specific measures and adaptations are necessary. however, i would remind you that the commission has already proposed specific provisions, spanning various eu policies, to take into account the situation of the outermost regions. the commission will take stock of the progress made since 2012 when the last strategy for the outermost regions – for their smart, sustainable and inclusive growth – was proposed. since then a lot has been done to boost the competitiveness of local enterprises and to reduce the ‘accessibility gap’. let me take the recent example of state-aid-specific provisions, to which my colleague commissioner vestager has devoted a lot of attention, addressing the concerns expressed by these regions. however, major challenges remain, including high unemployment rates, which, of course, affect young people in particular. hence we need to pool our efforts to address the concerns of ordinary people in these regions and offer them better prospects. the report sends important messages about the collective role of all eu policies and programmes in the development of the outermost regions. cohesion policy plays a crucial role and specific provision for these regions addresses their needs and location. the commission also agrees on the importance of investing in research and innovation, helping these regions to deploy their smart-specialisation strategies. we are committed to further boosting the outermost regions’ strengths and building on their extraordinary assets, their rich biodiversity and their unique position in the world. we would like to help them to have a leading role in fields such as renewable energies and the blue economy. in parallel, helping the regions to close their accessibility gap will be crucial. here we are thinking not only about transport links but also about digital connectivity. cohesion policies have helped considerably to reduce this gap. the collective involvement of all parties – the outermost regions, member states, and all relevant stakeholders in the european union – will be crucial to ensure that assets and specific issues are taken on board in an appropriate manner. this renewed strategy will guide our joint work in the years to come.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr omarjee, for the quality and accuracy of the report. it is not only important to defend the rights of the outermost regions, but it is necessary to do so with strong arguments and by appealing to the respect of the treaties and the regulations, which emphasize the particularities of these regions in terms of their socioeconomic structure and geographical position. these regions also have differentiating potential in terms of sustainability, biodiversity and economic development in sectors such as agriculture, fisheries, renewable energy or, why not, tourism. but all this would not be possible without the appropriate policies of the union and coordination between institutions and administrations. it would not be possible without the protection of local economies. we must also remember that it is the regions that will be most affected by the consequences of climate change and that attention must therefore be given to adaptation and prevention programmes. and last but not least, the report is a reminder of the importance of cohesion policy in the european union, which sometimes seems to forget the differences between regions.
mr president, thank you very much to mr omarjee for his report. the remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and economic dependence on a few products are permanent features of the outermost regions, including the canary islands. europe's response to these handicaps must also be permanent and is based on article 349 of the treaty. three notes. posei plays an essential role in maintaining and developing agricultural production and the processing industry in these regions, which suffer from unemployment rates much higher than national averages. it is therefore absolutely necessary to maintain and, if necessary, strengthen these programmes: without posei, there is no future for the agricultural sector. the fisheries sector, where the need for restructuring and development, one of the main objectives of posei, is pressing. we need to get a posei-pesca back. the modernization of the fleet is essential. the fleet, for safety reasons, with an age of more than twenty years, is dangerous, inefficient and polluting. under strict conditions, sustainable fishing need not be jeopardised. finally, we shall shortly be dealing with the new multiannual financial framework. we need that new framework to meet expectations, not let them down.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank our colleague, mr omarjee, for this report, which is the first strategic document on the outermost regions after the relevant judgment of 15 december 2015, the mayotte judgment, which states that there is a legal basis not only for exempting secondary law but also for specialising policies in relation to the outermost regions to compensate for their remoteness and insularity. it does so in the perspective of strategic planning: europe after 2020, between 2020 and 2030, a strategic document for the outermost regions, which points to a radical change of direction. firstly, because we are no longer talking exclusively about regional policy or agricultural policy, but about a whole range of varieties ranging from trade policy to foreign policy. secondly, because it is clearly stated that being an outermost region is not a disadvantage, but can be a strategic support. but thirdly, because it points to the potential of the inclusion of the outermost regions, because of their connectivity, in the transeuropean networks for innovation, energy, new communications and telecommunications, which means a huge lever for the future to once and for all highlight the presence of the outermost regions as a unique condition of european regional policy.
i support the road map in this report, mr president, so that, in accordance with the provisions of article 349 of the treaty, the legal order and all european policies and programmes can be successfully adapted to the needs of the outermost regions, such as the canary islands, and so that their citizens can have access to all of them. the combination of distance and diversity has undermined the results of an effort which we acknowledge has made a great contribution and, to improve it, we stress the need to take into account in trade agreements with third countries that are primary producers, which are european producers but with more difficulties; the urgency of adapting to the ors the operation of the horizontal funds and the cohesion policy and maintaining the consideration of 'less developed regions', strengthening the agricultural posei and a fisheries posei; considering the dimension of the ors' economy when assessing economic development aid programmes which, in another context, could affect the internal market in terms of competition; and, finally, integrating the potential of the ors in the field of the blue economy and renewable energies into the catalogue of opportunities offered by these regions throughout the union. and the canary islands are an example of this.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, first of all i would like to express my condolences on the loss of life in the fires in portugal. there, and in spain, the causes of these superfires are quite clear: climate change, at the origin of drought and extreme temperatures; the monoculture of eucalyptus and pine, many benefits for the wood industry but a matchbox for our forests; urban speculation and lack of territorial planning, reinforcing the danger for local populations; and the abandonment of the mountain, where "development today" rhymes with "rural depopulation". instead, we need something else: to rearrange the land; to prioritise investment in areas of high fire risk and greater prevention through the european agricultural fund for rural development; to mainstream climate change into fire prevention and sustainable forest management; and, above all, to rethink the common agricultural policy to turn the page from monoculture to a diverse and ecological agroforestry model, with jobs, wealth and life in the rural world.
madam president, the fire has frightened an entire country: portugal. the flames not only destroyed more than 40 000 hectares, but also took the lives of 64 people - and this is the worst - and later in spain, they isolated entire villages. the tragedies were not greater thanks to the firefighters, forest agents and other professionals who risked their lives to save others. i remember the picture of those exhausted firefighters after fighting the fire all night: their sacrifice depicts the basis of the european union, which is solidarity. europe is solidarity in pain, but also in hope. europe is that outstretched hand which, with regional development funds, helps the people who need it most. europe stood with italy in the earthquakes, and europe will stand with portugal and also with spain, all the more so because in june we adopted the report which allows for additional aid to be given to countries affected by natural disasters. this decision will make europe finance reconstruction work at 95%, i.e. twice as much as before. each year the solidarity fund can mobilise 500 million to provide flexibility and help those affected in emergency situations. that is why it is so important that brexit does not take a single euro away from the regional funds and the cap. and, inspector, the summer has just begun. in the villages of spain it is early morning to collect dry branches, which would be pasture for any fire; here we must continue working to curb rural depopulation, to give opportunities to those who want to return to the countryside, because the aridity that attracts the flames is combated by repopulating remote places, promoting sustainable agriculture. the roadmap is clear: active prevention, awareness and effective forest management. in the last 15 years, 250 000 fires have burned 1,700 000 hectares in spain. you will understand, madam president, that our concern is real.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with portugal, especially with its victims; of course, i would like to acknowledge the efficiency of all the personnel who took part in putting out the fire which ravaged the iberian peninsula - portugal and spain - between 17 and 24 june. the fact is that one of the most devastating fires in recent decades has occurred, and that it has affected, in particular in spain, a special environmental protection area, such as doñana, with more than 190 000 hectares of protected land belonging to the natura 2000 network. the origin is the same: climate change and, after all, the heat wave that has devastated the iberian peninsula; climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing humanity today and which the european union must prevent and combat, also with specific actions when these circumstances occur. we therefore ask that the solidarity fund should take account of the regions neighbouring spain and portugal and that compensation should be made for this disaster, particularly in the case of doñana, because of the high socioeconomic value of the area. in the medium and long term, the solidarity fund should also be modified to take account of these areas of special environmental protection, such as those belonging to the natura network, and the economic criteria should be better adapted to the real wealth of the region rather than to the volume of gdp, because populated regions or large regions can really have difficulty accessing this type of funds, despite their real wealth. in short, coherence between the european union's policies and actions in environmental policy. the environment must be provided with sufficient resources to be able to preserve it. the natura network has only the life programme, which covers only 20% of the funding needed for the conservation and maintenance of these areas.
madam president, mr ruas, mr marinho, mr ferreira, mr zorrinho, first of all, our greeting to you as representatives of the portuguese people and our greeting to those families whom i hope you will take care of properly. there is a legend - i don't know if in portugal, but in spain - that says that the greek strabo wrote that a squirrel could travel the iberian peninsula without coming down from the trees. firstly, it could not; and secondly, the squirrel would not have gone for the pine and eucalyptus trees, with which spain and portugal have been dangerously repopulated: when they burn, they kill, generating unprecedented tragedies such as those we are now deploring. and then there's the slow death of the land, which has been eroding and degrading the environment for decades, and then there's the drought. the forests in spain and portugal are not clean and there is no policy for cleaning up forests and forests that works. some 90% of the union's funds for forests come from the european fund for rural development - that is true - and there are funds in the natura network and the water framework directive, but we do not have a european prevention policy that distinguishes vulnerabilities. the south and the mediterranean are burning and there are human tragedies. we therefore need a forestry policy focused on prevention, on good practices, on strategies, on political and financial instruments, to avoid tragedies, starting today.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my thoughts, solidarity and support to the brotherly people of portugal in these difficult times. it is going to be more and more frequent that we are faced with heat waves and increased fire risks, in the context of the climate change we are in, especially in southern europe. it is clear that firefighting operations will unfortunately often be overrun. that is why we must focus not only on prevention plans - which are often not implemented - but also on proper land management. because, first of all, the mountains, if they are not to burn, must be taken care of, and to take care of the mountains, people living in the rural world are needed. secondly, to combat the serious environmental problem we are facing is also to combat the problem of the cultivation of species such as the eucalyptus, which we have already seen in portugal what it is capable of doing. in spain, environmental reports were already warning five years ago, but it seems that the alarms are still falling on deaf ears. meanwhile, the fire business continues to make a minority rich, in exchange for privatizations of firefighting services and in exchange also for workers who risk their lives defending the forests often being paid less than 600 euros.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to join in the remembrance of all the victims of the fires of the past few weeks and to thank the italian, french and spanish firefighters who joined their portuguese colleagues in fighting the fires. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for your prompt response to put all possible means to help in this fight. forests that burn are victims of climate change, but they are, in fact, also causing climate change in their own way. one example: in spain, between 2005 and 2015, fires emitted 15 million tons of co2. the situation of the forests of southern europe cannot therefore be regarded as passive. they are very different from those of the north and therefore require a different, much more active management, which keeps the forest clean and its surroundings inhabited. the mediterranean forest is not just a plantation of trees. we need a much more ambitious and adapted forestry strategy which is a fire-prevention measure, a further instrument in the fight against climate change, and which prevents our forests from being pure fuel for fires which, as has already been said, increase our emissions and threaten our future. let us work more on a day-to-day basis, preventively - as you said, commissioner - so that the emergency services of the commission and the member states are alert, but not working.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this very interesting debate, for your constructive intervention, for your suggestions in all aspects of this very sad situation. it definitely comes at a very crucial time. we already recognise that europe faces numerous natural disasters; some may be predicted or anticipated while others come as a surprise. you already mentioned about the impact of the climate change, but regardless of any criticisms i would like to remind you, and myself of course, that the european union remains the most pioneering political organisation across the world regarding climate change, and is definitely against new approaches by the new administration of the usa. it is quite important for us to recognise this in order to show that, as europeans, we remain very committed in this very difficult political landscape about climate change. and for this reason we must stand ready to help when there are surprises in many areas, in particular in the south of europe. we cannot predict when forest fires will break out and when spring comes we know that sooner or later they will indeed break out. this is the destiny of some areas. as i said, the actions taken to respond to the forest fires that broke out in portugal in june and took so many human lives are a clear example of eu solidarity. i followed all the actions, i followed all the activities by our member states and by our ercc. we have here the director of this coordination centre, and i would like to say thanks for your commitment because, as i said, i followed moment by moment, minute by minute and i saw that yes, the european union’s civil protection mechanism is the manifestation of a tangible solidarity on the ground. it is very critical to recognise and to realise this in order to achieve more through this mechanism. definitely, the commission will continue work to fight all emergencies, but also to prevent new ones. in fact, the work of the commission goes well beyond pure response to disasters. we need to anticipate through our actions, to prevent future catastrophes and, as i said, prevention is better than cure. this is why we focus on prevention and preparedness. of course a lot of other policies and actions have to be there in practice, but in our competence there is only this mechanism, and in some other areas you know from our treaties they are national competences. it is as simple as that. this is our structure and i think it is difficult to change this structure in this framework, particularly in the current times. in this respect i would like to stress again that the european emergency response capacity, the so-called voluntary pool, is composed of civil protection assets in expertise from our member states that are put at the disposal of other member states affected by a disaster. it is real example of tangible eu solidarity and this solidarity comes when it really, really matters. as the saying goes, actions speak louder than words. i am convinced that we as europeans can be proud of putting theory into practice. we can be proud of exercising solidarity to help fellow european citizens when they need it to save lives. improving our response capacity should be our ultimate goal for the benefit of all those who may need help one day. some specific answers: mr van nistelrooij and mr kelly have already spoken about our ability through the solidarity fund. i am sure that you know that the national authorities need to apply for this fund’s support and provide an assessment of the damage, and then the commission reviews the application and determines if eu support could be activated and for what amount and specifically, i think 12 weeks after. portugal, maybe you know, has received since 2003 through this solidarity fund, including for the forest fires on madeira last summer, around eur 80 million, so the solidarity fund has already been activated about this request. it is quite important to recognise that the south of europe is more sensitive as a region for forest fires and this is why my intention as commissioner responsible for the ercc and the civil protection mechanism is to see more improvements in our action through this mechanism, but you know that we need some new legislation or some amendments. i would like to sit together to exchange views on how to increase our cooperation and to see how this mechanism can be more effective and efficient.
in writing. the fires that have ravaged the doñana nature park and central portugal highlight the vulnerability of mediterranean countries to the risk of fires in the summer season, which is aggravated by the drought in the south of the iberian peninsula. the eu has a civil protection mechanism to assist countries during disasters alongside the eu solidarity fund, which compensates for damage from a minimum ceiling, calculated as a percentage of gdp. this method penalizes large and populated regions, which may have difficulty in accessing this funding. it would therefore be appropriate to take into account income per head, which is a better reflection of the real economy. although the priority of the fund should be humanitarian disasters and those involving human life, as in portugal, environmental damage and specially protected areas must also be considered. doñana belongs to the natura 2000 network, but this specificity does not include specific actions with specific funding and is not recognized as such in the european solidarity fund.
in writing. the fires that have ravaged the doñana nature park and central portugal highlight the vulnerability of mediterranean countries to the risk of fires in the summer season, which is aggravated by the drought in the south of the iberian peninsula. the eu has a civil protection mechanism to assist countries during disasters alongside the eu solidarity fund, which compensates for damage from a minimum ceiling, calculated as a percentage of gdp. this method penalizes large and populated regions, which may have difficulty in accessing this funding. it would therefore be appropriate to take into account income per head, which is a better reflection of the real economy. although the priority of the fund should be humanitarian disasters and those involving human life, as in portugal, environmental damage and specially protected areas must also be considered. doñana belongs to the natura 2000 network, but this specificity does not include specific actions with specific funding and is not recognized as such in the european solidarity fund.
considering the seriousness of what happened in portugal and the galician experience of years suffering the scourge of fires in which, in addition to the known impacts, we also had to regret the loss of human lives during the extinguishing operations: it is time to put an end to the forestry model based on pine trees and eucalyptus monoculture, spread continuously for miles and with rural and urban centres and roads surrounded by pyrophytes; not to mention the depletion of water caused by eucalyptus. we call for the eucalyptus to be declared an invasive species and for the institutions to act accordingly. another contributing factor is the years and years of agricultural policies that cause the abandonment of agriculture and, with it, the abandonment of the countryside. experience shows that a well-ordered, well-managed territory, with farmers and peasants settled in the territory, taking care of the environment through food production is essential so that when there is a fire, it does not spread. it is also necessary, especially in the galician case, to put an end to the culture of the fire business by consolidating a public fire-fighting service. we must put an end to the precariousness and insecurity of these workers and give the profession of firefighter and forestry worker dignity.
in writing. the fires that have ravaged the doñana nature park and central portugal highlight the vulnerability of mediterranean countries to the risk of fires in the summer season, which is aggravated by the drought in the south of the iberian peninsula. the eu has a civil protection mechanism to assist countries during disasters alongside the eu solidarity fund, which compensates for damage from a minimum ceiling, calculated as a percentage of gdp. this method penalizes large and populated regions, which may have difficulty in accessing this funding. it would therefore be appropriate to take into account income per head, which is a better reflection of the real economy. although the priority of the fund should be humanitarian disasters and those involving human life, as in portugal, environmental damage and specially protected areas must also be considered. doñana belongs to the natura 2000 network, but this specificity does not include specific actions with specific funding and is not recognized as such in the european solidarity fund.
member of the commission. – madam president, on behalf of my dear colleague pierre moscovici, i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for their high-quality report and their very constructive and comprehensive work on the directive on tax dispute resolution mechanisms. this directive is yet another building block in the commission’s action towards a fairer, more efficient, more competitive and at the same time, more transparent corporate tax system in the eu. whilst proposing stricter rules against tax avoidance and ensuring that taxes are paid where profits are generated, the commission is also very much concerned about providing legal certainty for taxpayers and ensuring that when they operate cross-border they pay taxes on their income and capital only once, not twice. double taxation occurs when two or more countries claim the right to tax the same income or profits of a company. there are estimated to be around 900 double taxation disputes ongoing in the eu today between member states, under the current dispute resolution mechanisms, mainly dealing with transfer pricing issues. double taxation is a serious obstacle to cross-border investment in our single market, leading to uncertainty and discouraging cross-border trade. under the existing procedures, unresolved double taxation disputes between member states represents eur 10 billion in the eu. from an investor’s perspective, robust, reliable and stable procedures and predictable behaviour on the part of tax administrations as regards eliminating double taxation are important factors for doing business in a country. to remedy the current situation, the directive provides for mandatory and binding dispute resolution mechanisms with clear timelines and an obligation to reach results. it significantly improves the existing mechanisms for resolving disputes between member states. the text allows for a ‘mutual agreement procedure’ to be initiated by the taxpayer, under which member states must reach an agreement within a set deadline. if the procedure fails, an arbitration procedure is launched to resolve the dispute within specified timelines. the directive is also a direct response to the calls of this house included, for example, in the econ resolution from december 2015, known as taxe, and its taxe ii resolution of july 2016. econ’s report highlights some key elements of efficiency and effectiveness, such as setting ambitious timelines, ensuring independence of the members of the arbitration commission, deciding on disputed cases and enhancing transparency. as regards timelines, setting up ambitious time limits had to be balanced against the international environment and the procedures set out in tax treaties. other elements, such as the increased number of cases, fostering the capacities of tax administration, as well as business realities and the global tax environment, involving more complicated and sophisticated cases, were also considered. as far as independence of the members of the arbitration commission is concerned, the commission recognises the high importance of the issue. that is why we are fully committed to ensuring the right balance between the criteria of independence and integrity towards competence of the independent person, given the increased complexity and sophistication of the cases involved. with regard to increasing transparency, the publication of a summary of each decision on disputed cases, is regarded as highly beneficial. furthermore, the commission has also ensured that taxpayers’ rights and obligations throughout the procedure are significantly improved. finally, the directive ensures that the mechanisms do not result in double non-taxation situations. if the affected taxpayer cannot prove that there is double taxation, member states can decide to deny access to the procedure. i count on parliament’s full support for this important file, so that we can continue delivering our ambitious agenda for a competitive and growth-driven tax environment; full speed ahead! the most crucial imminent steps in this regard are: the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). the ccctb is exactly the fair, efficient and competitive corporate tax system that the eu desperately needs – now and for the future. first, because the ccctb will create a simpler, more stable and more attractive environment for businesses and investors inside europe. second, it will encourage growth-friendly business activities and will boost the competitiveness of the eu as a whole. and finally, the ccctb will make corporate taxation fairer and more efficient. it is the ultimate tool for combating tax avoidance.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission and governments should make it a priority to stop tax evasion by companies. large european companies carry out practices of base erosion and price transfer to tax in countries with the lowest rates. this is one of the main problems of european taxation, not the double taxation which is the subject of this report. because we all know that the problem is that big companies don't pay taxes, not that they pay taxes in two countries. we believe that secrecy is out of place in international tax cases, and publication is in the public interest. that is why we have tabled amendments to this effect. it is not understandable that a company has up to three years to complain about a supposed case of double taxation and yet the state has only one year to examine this case. we need to give more time and resources to the tax inspectors, who are like david against the goliath of big corporations. finally, we reject the idea of guaranteeing impunity for tax crimes when there are open double taxation disputes. this is unacceptable. let's not be hypocritical. our speech cannot be a purported fight against tax evasion, while we legislate precisely to promote the interests of multinationals and corporate power, at the expense of the social rights of the peoples of europe. the fact that this document, this report, has already been adopted by the council without having been passed by parliament, that the council is not here and that the commissioner for economic affairs is not even here, is a mockery of parliament.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank mr theurer for his good cooperation on this dossier and for being open to our proposals, such as, for example, that in the arbitration phase the committee which has to manage this phase be composed of full and independent experts, and that we recommend that they should also be officials of the tax agencies which seemed to us better, as well as the idea that the european commission should be able to make an assessment of the independent representatives in the panels. i also want to announce that we will vote in favour of the gue/ngl group's amendments for greater transparency in the case of the conclusion of arbitration cases. but i want to end by addressing the council. firstly, the fact that they closed the dossier without waiting for the consultation, as many of our colleagues have said, is a real nuisance; and since they are not here, i would prefer to spare myself the comment. and secondly, how quickly these files are closed which favour the activities of companies and how much it costs the council to achieve tax transparency, a common minimum tax base, and so on and so forth. i would really like to see a different attitude from the council, because that is ridiculous.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am very happy that commissioner malmström is absent for a good reason tonight. i know she is finalising the eu-japan free trade agreement (fta). this is very good news for europe. the eu must accelerate on trade deals now that the usa has decided the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is not a priority. with regard to singapore, i was and am a very strong supporter of this fta, as i really believe it offers a win-win commercial deal. i am as frustrated as our singapore counterparts that this fda has taken so long and that it was stuck in court for such a long time. as our oral question points out, negotiations were launched in march 2010. seven years, colleagues, is a positively biblical cycle. if we take so long with a rule-of-law country like singapore, imagine how long we will take with bigger, more problematic countries. the court of justice ruling of 16 may 2017 places almost all the eu-singapore fta provisions within the exclusive competence of the union. however, the two remaining areas of mixed competence have a clear effect and will probably constitute a precedent for future ftas that the eu will negotiate. europe will grow not with more public debt but rather through further trade deals with countries all over the world. time is always important, and now there is a favourable international momentum for europeans to grasp. i want to raise three questions. what will the consequences of this court ruling be beyond the ratification of this fta? can we expect the ratification next year? what will be the consequences in terms of future mandates for the negotiation of ftas and the procedures for their ratification?
in writing. despite what the wording of the question suggests, the ecj ruling has serious consequences for the commission's 'new' trade agenda and its intention to implement free trade agreements without the unanimous consent of the member states. this is a victory for democracy against the attempt to impose isds (arbitration tribunals between multinationals and states) and the mechanisms of regulatory cooperation as legislative actors against national courts and parliaments. a victory, therefore, against those who are pushing for new trade treaties (such as the acp and the trips) to deregulate the european economy, rather than submitting their proposals to a popular vote.
the committee on petitions has already adopted a number of amendments. mr. president, this is a great day. today this parliament already gives its consent to the marrakesh treaty, which was signed in 2013. it is intended to facilitate access to published works for people with severe visual impairments. it allows -as they say here- the cross-border exchange of books and other materials in accessible formats. that means any kind of format: it can be braille, it can be macro type, it can be audio. we have to say that only about 5 percent of the works were accessible at this time and therefore there was a lot of material, hungry for reading, that was not accessible to blind people. that was discrimination and it violated the values we are referring to in this parliament today. and that's why it's a great day, because today we deserve the prize of concord. today we deserve the peace prize that was awarded to us a few years ago, because today we consolidated the principle of non-discrimination, the principle of equal opportunities, accessibility, participation and effective inclusion in our society. today we take a step to make the right to education available. we are also taking a step so that all these people can receive and also, in some way, disseminate information; they can, like all other people too, carry out research. clearly, we had to strike a balance between effective copyright protection, but we also had to serve the public interest. it was a human rights issue. in fact, it's the first copyright treaty in terms of human rights, and that's why it's so important, because it connects to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and also to the universal declaration of human rights. the benefits are innumerable. first, it helps to raise awareness in a courageous way throughout society of the challenges and objectives faced by people with disabilities, especially blind people. we have always said, from the disability groups, that it is necessary to visualize diversity in a positive way, because that will make society have values. there's a second benefit, and that's access to education. education is really what makes us free. education makes us equal in opportunity, and that's why we also take a big step. it improves social participation and social integration, and it also alleviates poverty, because the moment that this happens, there will undoubtedly be an increase in all contributions to the national economy. we are very happy and today we have done a great job and we have earned this award for harmony.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you. yesterday you were here late at night, and this morning we met. it has rained a lot since the ban on whaling in norway in the early 20th century, an activity that actually dates back to the 7th century, but over time, the interest and domestic demand for whale products in norway has been decreasing. despite the moratorium we all agreed in 1986 through the international whaling commission, in the interests of conservation, norway never fully implemented it and in 1993 it resumed commercial whaling, catching - as we have already said this morning on several occasions - in recent years more exemplary whales than japan and iceland combined. i would like to recall that yesterday we discussed objective 14 of the 2030 agenda: conserving and using oceans, seas and marine resources sustainably for sustainable development. the union should lead in achieving these objectives and therefore also be able to check that goods arriving at its ports comply with all legal requirements.
mr president, i would ask my colleagues for a minute's patience so that we can condemn together the bloody events in the venezuelan assembly yesterday. our fellow members of parliament were violently attacked in their legitimate role as representatives of the people by uncontrolled mobs close to the chavista regime. i ask all our colleagues not to close their eyes, ears and mouths to such an abhorrent act: let us remember that in three months 91 people have died in the streets of venezuela. and i would add this: the terrible images we have just seen of the bloodied members of parliament in the assembly - perhaps it is time to take clear action and call for sanctions against the venezuelan regime at once so that it is understood, understood at once, that here in europe we are for freedom, democracy and our colleagues in the venezuelan assembly.
mr president, i voted in favour and i wanted to speak in particular about the creation of this new european fund for sustainable development, because it will certainly tackle the problems of immigration, injustice and poverty. €44 million will be earmarked for investments in africa and its neighbourhood. finally, i insist, we will address the underlying problem in africa and the situation of many injustices. there are some achievements that i would like to highlight because they seem to me particularly essential in this fund: the reference to development effectiveness, resilience, decent job creation and poverty eradication goals; the inclusion of the paris agreement and the agenda for sustainable development as the objective of this fund; or the inclusion of a clause to safeguard human and labour rights. finally, the inclusion in the text of the fight against tax havens and tax evasion is, i believe, an important achievement in the objectives of this fund.
mr president, this is an important report on the sustainable development goals. i would like to emphasize in my explanation that i like the way the house has developed much more than what was initially approved in the committee on the environment. it is a response to the commission's communication on european action for sustainability and what was initially approved in this committee were fairly unfair issues with the community's agricultural policy. i insist that it has been corrected and that is why i voted in favour. i would like to stress that this community agricultural policy, in its last reform, already made great efforts to protect the environment, and that it incorporated an important aspect such as greening, which is now a major effort for all european farmers and livestock farmers. it is not fair to say that european agriculture is not helping the environment: it is helping; it is evolving despite direct competition from products from third countries which do not do the same. the role of european agriculture must therefore be emphasised.
i am surprised that this question has been included in the debate today. because i agree with you and i want to confirm to you here, in this plenary sitting on a thursday afternoon, that we have had information from your department; you came here in the april plenary and dg sante came, in the last plenary session last june, to report to the committee on agriculture, and we had another debate earlier, also in the committee on agriculture. so we have information. the last one, which you gave us and which we have today ratified and which has given us some further progress, says that, indeed, as the audit of brazil from 2 to 12 may has been done, and the controls by the brazilian authorities have been intensified, more cases of salmonella are appearing, that is to say, by intensifying the controls we are seeing how what you have said is happening in brazil, and that is that the brazilian health controls are not working well. they have anomalies. and since it is a country of which the european union is an importer, we obviously have cause for concern. i think you're doing things reasonably well. the only thing i would like to stress is that the controls of the european union should be maintained and harmonized to prevent cases like this from happening, because health alert is very important. and, finally, it has nothing to do with the mercosur agreement. it's a food health crisis. that's all i know.
mr president, i know that you have mentioned all the victims and that, as you have very well said, there is no difference between them, but i think that we should also mention the victims of the earthquake in mexico, which has already claimed more than a hundred lives. they are partners and friends, sister countries of the european union and therefore of this parliament. and so i think it is important to give support to the mexicans and their government at this time.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we have long been calling for the need to consider gender-based violence as a public policy problem, as a shared responsibility of society as a whole, and not as a problem to be solved in the family or in the home. we therefore think it is important - and we are therefore pleased - to have this debate today on the ratification of the istanbul convention. because the istanbul convention is the most impactful legal instrument at the moment to be able to act on gender-based violence. we are talking about a social scourge, we are talking about women being killed by men for the simple fact of living in unequal societies, for the simple fact of being women. and we are talking about the shared responsibility of all the institutions, including the european institutions, to put an end to this reality. the commissioner also referred to the most vulnerable groups. and in this sense, we wanted to make a specific reference to the situation of a vulnerable group, such as children from families where gender violence has occurred. i am here today to announce that our group will be presenting for the next debate with the european commission - and we hope that with the support of other parliamentary groups - a debate on this issue, on the protection of the rights of minors who have also been victims of gender-based violence in families. because there is a possibility of using enhanced cooperation, as the european union has done with the lisbon regulation or the rome regulation in this respect. and we need to talk about children's rights; we need to talk about protecting children, because they are the most vulnerable victims. we can't allow more complicit silences against gender-based violence, because we're talking about half the population. we are talking about women, who have to claim to be on an equal footing with the rest of society.
madam president, thank you, commissioner jourová, for your tireless work. the istanbul convention is a legal milestone and an essential achievement for protecting women from violence across europe. however, only half the member states of the union have ratified it. i do not know what to think or what can be done. i can't find any argument, nor do i think we can admit it. even in the countries which have already ratified it we cannot be satisfied. in my country, spain, ratification took place three years ago and yet it has not translated into concrete measures. although a state pact against gender-based violence has recently been signed between the main spanish parties, this pact falls short of the istanbul convention. we don't need any more pacts, we don't need any more pictures, we don't need any more words. we need the istanbul convention to be translated into concrete measures. only legal change really leads to cultural change. let us equip ourselves with the best comprehensive tool against gender violence; it is more, against all violence, against domestic violence, which goes against the most vulnerable. i say to the governments of all europe: please do your job.
madam president, thank you to the rapporteurs and commissioner jourová for all their work. gender-based violence affects 250 million women in europe and costs us €230 billion a year, figures which justify the eu institutions' adherence to the istanbul protocol. this will help us to have a coherent legal framework in all member states, improve measures to prevent and combat this scourge, and help us to better protect and compensate the victims of what many of us call domestic terrorism. the threats and screams we hear on the other side of the fence are a problem for everyone. the values that drive abusers are corrosive. the stereotypes we transmit in education or in the media kill. so the fight against this scourge begins in each of us and us. and that individual action needs and deserves the maximum institutional support.
madam president, we certainly welcome the ratification of the istanbul convention and we also make an urgent appeal to those member states which have not yet ratified it to do so. this convention recognises violence against women as a violation of human rights and this recognition on paper is important, but today, i believe that out of respect for the victims of gender-based violence, we should not and cannot make triumphalist statements either. we must redouble our efforts to translate what is written on paper into action. that is why i also support the resolution of parliament which calls on the states to allocate the financial and human resources needed to prevent and combat violence and to protect and assist victims. we have seen this in my country in recent months with the case of juana rivas, who was forced to hand over her children to an abusive father, who was already convicted for this and is awaiting another complaint. and that is that, in my country, the law against gender-based violence does not include the removal of custody from abusive parents. no abuser is a good father. we must therefore go further than this convention, because there is an urgent need for a european directive to combat violence against women and children, which all member states must comply with.
we welcome the ratification of the istanbul convention, but we believe, commissioner, that the european union must move from words to deeds. we women want to live, we want to live a life without violence, so we are waiting for a european directive to strengthen the fight against gender-based violence. we ask member states to assess in depth the application of the laws to see what is not working. we believe it is essential that all those who have to implement legislation against gender-based violence have gender training. it's the only way that sexism doesn't get stuck in law enforcement as well. we want to ensure that cases like joana rivas' never happen again and that no woman faces jail for not wanting to hand over her children, her daughters, to the abusive parents.
mr president, violence against women is a brutal form of discrimination and a violation of human rights which occurs in all european countries. one in three women in the european union has been the victim of physical or sexual violence since the age of 15; one in twenty women has been raped; more than half of women have suffered sexual harassment; one in three women has suffered psychological abuse by her partner; one in three women has suffered physical or sexual violence by an adult during childhood. and the ones who have been the worst off have been killed, in many cases along with their children. on behalf of all the victims, i congratulate the commissioner, my colleague anna maria and all those who have worked to get the eu to accede to the istanbul convention, an effective instrument for preventing violence, protecting victims and prosecuting perpetrators; a great step of the many more we have to continue to take at national and european level and to do it all together. i would like to tell the honourable member that, on the occasion of this report, she complained to the pp members that 'as anna maria has said' she does not know that there are many women in this house from the people's party like me, like anna, like barbara, that we have been working here for many years for the defence of women and i do not allow my party or us to be called into question.
in writing. the last decades have witnessed a substantial change in traditional social attitudes towards violence against women in order to constrain their freedom, and the istanbul convention represents a legal manifestation of this revolution for rights. i am concerned, however, that this approach, which has such a broad political consensus, continues to underestimate domestic violence directed at men and boys. the timid recognition in the preamble to the convention that 'men can also be victims of domestic violence' is not developed in the documents and initiatives. this contrasts with the findings of scientific studies, some funded by the european union such as the dove project that show a similar gender ratio of victims and perpetrators in domestic abuse. i am also concerned that the interim report omits or does not adequately highlight domestic violence directed at boys, referring three times to 'women and girls' in contexts where we also routinely find male victims.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today in the plenary on the lulucf proposal. this is an important initiative to implement the european union commitments under the paris agreement and to contribute to the domestic european union 2030 greenhouse gas emissions reduction target. the european council’s guidance from october 2014 states that the eu target is ‘an economy-wide absolute reduction from base—year emissions’, reaching ‘at least 40% domestic reduction’ and covering all of the eu’s emissions. contribution from land use and forests in reaching the long—term climate mitigation objectives is critical because of their potential for anthropogenic removal of carbon from the atmosphere. forests alone currently cover more than 42% of the european union land surface and have a huge potential for climate change mitigation through additional sequestration and storage of co2 and through the potential to substitute fossil-based energy and materials. this debate and the vote this week show that the european union is serious about its international climate commitment under the paris agreement. by doing so, parliament is also making swift progress on one of the key legislative priorities of the union: under the joint declaration of the european union’s legislative priorities for 2017, the three institutions have agreed that the 2030 climate action proposals are given priority treatment in 2017. i appreciate the hard work of the rapporteur, mr lins, on this proposal and would thank him for the excellent cooperation. many of the key elements of what you are proposing for vote in this house are in line with the commission proposals, notably on the need to ensure the robustness of the accounting rules, in particular for forestry, and the sustainable management of forests. this is encouraging, as – like in the commission proposals – this maintains a careful balance between the need to respond to an increasing demand of biomass availability and climate mitigation objectives. i also note your efforts to further strengthen the environmental integrity of the framework by introducing additional safeguards. let me offer a few comments on the key aspects of the rapporteur’s final proposal. first, the report adopted by the environment committee retains the main principles of the commission proposal on the construction of forest reference levels. however, it modifies the reference period to a more recent one – 2000 to 2012. this period would include policies promoting increased harvesting in the benchmark and risk hiding real emissions of forest biomass. we should instead be incentivising sustainable forest management and we are open on how to address this challenge. however, the use of a more recent reference period risks compromising the environmental integrity of the lulucf accounting framework. second, we understand the concerns of some over the proposal’s language on management intensity, especially that of harvests. the commission proposal is a way to acknowledge that the management intensity of forests must vary, in accordance with the national characteristics of the forest. if forests become older, more trees will reach maturity and increased harvest may be needed. the commission proposal acknowledges that the future forest dynamics need to be captured in a forward-looking, projected forest reference level and does not fix the harvest to that of the past. the commission has, for example, even shown that a harvest increase of up to two per cent may be justified in the projected forest reference level, averaged across the european union. third, we must also consider this treatment of biomass emissions vis-à-vis the other legislative proposals. emissions from combustion of biomass under the ets and the esr are zero rated. if instead the accounting of biomass emissions is done downstream in these sectors, the administrative and technical burden would be extreme. we need therefore to be pragmatic. a credible, robust approach compatible with the other pillars of the policy is required. fourth, i note with interest the proposal to give more visibility to harvested wood products. we see that this aspect of lulucf is positive, not only for the climate, but also for jobs and the economy. that is why it deserved a special place in our proposal, as the only carbon pool with specific rules and a specific article. fifth, i welcome the specific improvements enhancing environmental integrity, such as the progressive inclusion of wetlands in the accounting scope, as of 2026, and the safeguard discussed of ensuring that the union’s forest sink does not decrease, compared to the 1990 to 2009 average. lastly, i note that the report closely tracks the commission proposal in respect of agricultural land accounting. we are pleased to see that a proportioned and balanced approach seems to have been found in determining flexibility towards the effort sharing sectors. the commission fully supports the efforts of parliament and the council to agree on the ets and non-ets proposals before the end of the year. on the ets file we are in trilogue negotiations, and i welcome the renewed efforts to progress there. i look forward to continuing to work with you on the lulucf proposal and bringing it to a successful conclusion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, after one of the hottest summers in history, the macro-oceans and the current hurricanes, let's face it: we have to be ambitious in our fight against climate change. according to scientists, not to exceed one and a half degrees and, at the same time, to protect the poorest people in this world means generating negative emissions, apart from the use of land and forests, which should not only be used as a compensation mechanism. based on this principle, this regulation, a first in the world, can set a precedent and become a model for international negotiations. to do this, the regulation must firstly make clear that land has different purposes and that food production, especially in the southern countries, must be compatible with carbon sinks; and secondly, it must integrate land tenure rights and indigenous peoples. finally, i would ask that the position of the environment committee be respected: any attempt to reduce emissions is to go against the paris agreement and play into trump's hands.
mr president, commissioner, since the paris agreement was adopted, you have made a number of very important proposals to us in the fight against climate change. for example, the emissions trading directive is important, or the different sectors directive. but the one we are dealing with is particularly important because it affects forestry and agriculture and therefore the rural environment. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, first of all, on the great work he has done and on being able to reach an agreement which was not easy, because there are antagonistic positions within this house and within our own group. and it has also respected the different types of forests in the european union. the absorption that is done by agriculture, land use and forestry has to be real and has to be comparable. they must be real in order to respect the efforts made by other sectors and to avoid creative accounting, which would also be a disgrace to the european union in the international arena. and they have to be comparable because it is necessary to be able to quantify the absorption of each member state and of the european union as a whole. reference periods are absolutely necessary and they must be rational and consistent. for all these reasons, it is appropriate for the european union - the commission - to have control over the member states' figures. i think this regulation is very important for sustainable economic activities in the rural world, and we have to support it.
mr president, i think we are all saying here that we are defending the fight against climate change and that this fight must also be from all sectors, as is also being done by the committee on regional development with regard to the role of cities and regions. but the solution to achieving a reduction in greenhouse gases is not to juggle the numbers and forest farmland, but to change the current model of agricultural production, reduce nitrogen fertilisers, ban industrial livestock and agriculture and avoid the changes in land use that favor this unsustainable industrial model, and also to stop processing food during transport. a large forest area is necessary for many of the reasons already mentioned, but sufficient agricultural land is also needed to guarantee food security and food sovereignty. a real and urgent shift towards agro-ecological food production and short-distance food marketing is needed.
mr president, commissioner, forest environments and their needs differ between member states. we wanted to make that clear in this house's report on the new european forestry strategy. european forests are growing in the north but shrinking in the south, and mediterranean forests are in danger of disappearing into ashes as a result of climate change. however, there is something common across europe, and that is the belief that active forest management brings benefits, both for the economy and for the promotion of rural life and the fight against climate change. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr lins, who has made a great effort to strike the difficult balance between the uncompromising commitment to the paris agreement - of which the union must be a leader and an example - and the active management of forests, which are, in the end, two sides of the same coin.
in writing. european forests and good soil management are responsible for sequestering more than 300m tonnes of co2, almost 10% of the eu's emissions. land use will soon be a part of the climate policy of the union and its member states, which will have to comply with accounting rules to balance ghg emissions and removals. however, these standards do not account for emissions from energy generated from biomass. this reduces the absorption and sink capacity of forests and soils compared to their exploitation as biomass or wood, a factor that should not be excluded. the energy policies of some states include the use of biomass to achieve renewable targets thanks to forests, causing two negative consequences: a) extracting biomass with more permissive levels can lose the forest co2 fixing capacity, and b) all emissions from this burning are out of the count, that is, they contribute to warming without being accounted for. europe cannot and must not deceive itself with an energy policy which undermines the importance which its forests and its soils deserve as decisive actors in reducing carbon emissions.
madam president, today marks the anniversary of the death of chilean president salvador allende on 11 september 1973, following a fascist coup d'état. a dictatorship of terror was established in chile for almost twenty years, opening a long period of implementation of policies against the workers and the labour movement. allende, like many others, died defending a system for the people, a system in which the individual is first over capital, in which lives are more important than multinationals and the market. forty-four years after his death, his legacy is stronger than ever: in the face of the systematic loss of rights and freedoms, we on the left continue to fight for truly democratic institutions; for workers to be at the centre of policies; for the eradication of inequality; for progress, in short, towards socialism. today as yesterday, as allende said, "history is ours and the people make it".
madam president, commissioner, i have asked to be allowed to use the floor to express my gratitude to the president of this house, first of all, and to the other members who this afternoon, at the start of the work of this plenary session, have observed a minute's silence, not only respectful but also emotional for the victims of the natural disasters or terrorist attacks that have occurred in recent weeks. attacking barcelona, the city where i live and where i was born, or attacking cambrils or attacking turku is basically the same thing: an attack on our civilization, our way of life, our democracies, our rights and our freedoms. i would like to conclude by remembering once again all the victims of these attacks and all the others that unfortunately took place on european soil and beyond, and by reiterating my gratitude for the work carried out by the security and emergency forces and bodies, in particular the corps de mossos d'esquadra, which worked with such diligence and skill in those dramatic hours of 17 august. we're not afraid of it!
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. natural gas has, in fact, little of natural. we should rather refer to it as dirty gas or fossil gas. according to scientific studies, this gas has a global warming capacity eighty-six times greater than carbon dioxide, making it a truly strange way to fight climate change. the european commission, arguing that there is a risk of further cuts in russian gas supplies, is taking the opportunity to extend new infrastructure and new connections to third countries, despite the fact that existing infrastructure for imports is used at 58% of its capacity, despite the fact that gas consumption is falling year by year and despite the fact that the commission inflates its gas consumption forecasts year by year. the only way to avoid risks with gas is to reduce gas consumption, and now we have a fantastic opportunity with the revision of the directives on renewable energy and energy efficiency. however, the european commission has only proposed a 30% target, knowing that 1% more would reduce gas imports by 4% annually, thus up to a possible 40% target. all this without increasing methane emissions and without building costly infrastructure that citizens pay for out of their own pockets, as is the case with castor, which the commissioner will know very well. the gas, better underground.
mr president, commissioner, the rapid alert system for food and feed and the traceability it provides is a major contribution by the european union to food safety. in the basque country, for example, it was the directorate of public health of the basque government that, on 12 august, in record time, immobilized a shipment allegedly affected by fipronil, crediting the capacity of the competent authorities to resolve the situation. but the fipronil crisis has also shown that the reluctance of one particular state - in this case, apparently the netherlands - to admit that it is the source of the problem, the temptation to overprotect itself puts european consumers at risk and damages the good name of all european food production. the crisis that the cucumbers suffered in 2011 - and which turned out to have its origin in some soybean shoots - should have served to teach us a lesson that we can not suspend again. that is why we need the announced high-level meeting to demand more honesty, collaboration, transparency and control in order to improve the early warning system for food and feed.
mr president, this fipronil scandal is not just a food safety problem, but it is fundamentally a matter of trust: whether or not we have it in the warning mechanisms in place for four decades. and they don't work well and therefore this is another scandal. in spain we still remember how, a few years ago, the misuse by a member state and its authorities led to the unjustified complaint against spanish cucumber producers, which has led to millions of dollars in compensation being awarded by a court judgment a few days ago. today, unfortunately, there is fraud, and a delay of many months in reporting a contamination which should have been made immediately by the member states concerned. but this shows the inefficiency and the inadequacy of the instrument. we have to make sure that the public is calm. prevention is the best way to do this. nothing is more appropriate than having european legislation on food defence, which, as we have been warning the commission for two years, is an instrument that can give us the peace of mind that consumers need and the tools that producers need. it's called food defense. america has it; why don't we have it yet? it would also be necessary to clarify exactly what role the new food fraud network, created in 2013 in the wake of horse meat, plays. what's it for? we wanted to know what you thought.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to say that i am very happy about those broad debates. some of you made political statements. of course, i agree that the commission is responsible, as ms gosiewska said. i am responsible, i am personally responsible. it is a big test for me – and for you also, for all of us, because the situation is very delicate. on the one hand, we know very well that we need to have facts, arguments, scientifically-based criteria and, of course, reality and fact-finding checks, not just talking generally. because dissemination of mistrust, dissemination of fear, dissemination of misleading information also affects consumer perception. we need to understand balance and to see how to move forward together. this is not the time to name, blame and shame. it was a big test for me on 20 july because i faced for the first time such a big challenge and we decided, on the one hand, to be very active, very precise, to communicate with governments, to discuss with ministers, and on the other hand, to manage information, to provide information for consumers. you mentioned failures of the rapid alert system. no, this is not true. only the rapid alert system allows us to understand where we are, how many countries are affected. the european union produced 360 million eggs per day – please, calculate that per one week and then, can you imagine it, we withdrew 20, 40 million eggs from this big amount. it shows that our rapid alert system and tracking and tracing system is effective. that is true. another question is: how are we using information, how are we acting, especially in using two different systems with different tasks. a criminal investigation in one hand, the food safety issue in the other. how to build a coherent approach? it is our task to move forward and to enforce our situation. let me start with some concrete questions. ms dalli, mr agnew and ms rivasi raised questions on public health. as regards a possible risk to public health, eggs from only three farms exceeded the acute risk level. i would like to provide you with this real information. only three farms exceeded the acute risk level. this means that the consumer would need to consume several eggs from these farms in a short period of time to exceed the acute reference dose. as regards the chronic risk, long-term exposure to fipronil via eggs and egg products should not exceed the acceptable daily intake. from the analytical results available, the majority of the eggs are below that level. this is why we once again draw your attention to this. the risk to public health is really very low. this is not to minimise the incident, as it relates to the illegal use of unauthorised substances. so all in all, consumers are safe, as i mentioned. talking about action in the future: mr belet, ms dalli and mr demesmaeker raised those questions. after managing the consequences of the incident and having taken the necessary risk management measures, we now have to move on and understand what lessons can be learned from this situation. on 30 august, a meeting of the standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed discussed the situation at a technical level and i asked member states – france, the netherlands, germany and belgium – to provide a coherent approach and to present their views and, of course, a thorough assessment and also proposals on how to deal with those issues together. this means that i will organise a high-level ministerial meeting on 26 september because we need to address all the issues and questions which were raised today. i will collect your questions and will see how to include your questions on manure, zero tolerance, compensation issues. we need to understand the situation and we will present our conclusions to the agriculture and fisheries council in october, because this is a sequence of problems. speaking of delays by the member states, we have to look at this from two angles: the functioning of the system itself, and the use of the system. the system as such, as it was designed, is working well from my point of view. once it has been put into the system, information has been flowing very well, but how to react quickly is another thing. i fully understand the situation of the competent authorities because they have difficulties in deciding. first of all they must understand the source of the problems, then the extent of the problems, and then see how to react quickly because it was detected in a completely accidental way. this is very important once again. there are a lot of questions so perhaps i can collect those questions and answer them in written form, as i know we are pressed for time. speaking about compensation, the priorities for these coming weeks is for producers, business operators and member states to take the necessary measures to ensure a high level of consumer protection and for the commission to ensure harmonised enforcement of european union rules in member states. the economic impact of this situation needs to be assessed before starting talks on potential compensation because the situation is not yet at an end. we need to assess the situation considering both the impact on producers and consumption levels in the long term, as well as the ongoing criminal investigation. but we must be sure that our compensation is not going into the hands of criminals. this is clear; we will look at the real picture. we will compensate those who were not involved in criminal activities, but those who were involved in criminal activities should be punished, we should not allow them to use our compensation. speaking about animal welfare issues, i agree: we need to discuss animal welfare issues. it does not matter what kind of farming – organic, non-conventional, and so on – but i think we have a good opportunity to use the animal welfare platform and to debate those issues, speaking about those questions. on manure, as i mentioned, we need to understand that zero tolerance is very important, but of course i will ask my services, my advisers, scientists, to see how we may discuss those issues in more detail because it is a very technical question. i spoke earlier about the collective responsibility that we bear for safeguarding higher standards of food safety and public health. i am heartened therefore that this house has taken such an active interest in this issue and i have listened closely to the debate today. let me reiterate: we are determined to improve the use of, and coordination between, the rapid alert system and the administrative assistance and cooperation system. however, we cannot and should not place the responsibility for the situation exclusively on these systems. they simply cannot function if they are not used correctly. i feel that our dialogue today demonstrates the value of effective and continuous communication and we will do our best and we will present to you later our outcomes after 26 september and after the council conclusions.
mr president, tell everyone to shut up, because we are making a real effort to listen to a commissioner who is trying to put on the table - and to a problem that we are very concerned about - solutions. if you do not want to listen to him, please ask him to leave, but to keep silent in this chamber, because that too is part of the image of the european parliament.
in writing. we are facing a crisis caused by the fraudulent use of a banned substance in the deworming of farm animals intended for human consumption. we know that the health risk is low and that since the early warning system was activated the products concerned have been destroyed, withdrawn and immobilized. this demonstrates the good functioning of our product traceability system. the pollution starts in the netherlands and belgium and there are currently investigations open in several member states. prosecutors in these countries will verify the samples and help determine who knew what. the commission is continuing its research to learn lessons and improve our well-functioning early warning system. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the first cases were apparently detected in late 2016 and until 20 july 2017 the ec did not receive the notification necessary to activate rasff. the matter will be discussed at a high-level ministerial meeting on 26 september and the conclusions will be submitted to the council of agriculture ministers on 10 and 11 october.
in writing. we are facing a crisis caused by the fraudulent use of a banned substance in the deworming of farm animals intended for human consumption. we know that the health risk is low and that since the early warning system was activated the products concerned have been destroyed, withdrawn and immobilized. this demonstrates the good functioning of our product traceability system. the pollution starts in the netherlands and belgium and there are currently investigations open in several member states. prosecutors in these countries will verify the samples and help determine who knew what. the commission is continuing its research to learn lessons and improve our well-functioning early warning system. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the first cases were apparently detected in late 2016 and until 20 july 2017 the ec did not receive the notification necessary to activate rasff. the matter will be discussed at a high-level ministerial meeting on 26 september and the conclusions will be submitted to the council of agriculture ministers on 10 and 11 october.
mr president, i wanted to inform this house that yesterday a young spanish worker, lorena enebral, was killed while working as a red cross worker in afghanistan. i think it is important and necessary that we in this parliament send a message of support and solidarity to his family and to the red cross and a recognition to all the men and women who dedicate their time, their knowledge and their lives to helping others.
i voted in favour of the european union's accession to the istanbul convention because i believe that we must be firm in preventing and combating all forms of violence against women. however, thirteen member states have yet to sign the convention, and those that have ratified it are still implementing insufficient policies. this is the case in spain, where the budget has been reduced for years - which has been denounced by cedaw - without the number of murders having been reduced. in a european union where one in three women over the age of 15 has been the victim of some form of gender-based violence, we still have to take giant steps, starting with the guarantee of housing for victims, but also ensuring coordination and cooperation between states to avoid cases like that of juana rivas, who has gone from being a victim of ill-treatment by her partner to being considered guilty for the absence of legislation to protect her and give her guarantees. take the example of the social movements around the world that are demanding the fight against machismo and against machista violence, from the marches of ni una menos in latin america to black monday in poland, from the demonstrations in the united states against the misogyny of trump to the mobilizations in india and also all the mobilizations in europe. the women of the world no longer let their pain be made invisible. not one less!
i would also like to thank mrs valero for her cooperation, which is always very positive, and i thank her for including some innovative points, such as the possibility of drawing up a list of entities and individuals known or suspected of being involved in the illegal arms trade, who are also listed as potential partners. the possibility of incorporating the need to increase security against cyber attacks, especially considering that access to licence networks and national licence data may also be one of the elements of higher risk and therefore there is a need for better training and education of the persons who have this obligation. it has also given us the opportunity to include an aspect relating to the future of brexit - that is, when the united kingdom is no longer in the european union - so that the ability of the united kingdom to maintain the same level of security in terms of international arms trade and control is not reduced, above all so that a kind of hole is not created. i am also very grateful to you for including the aspects relating to the need to identify and provide cover for whistleblowers, precisely so that whenever they have identified a situation in their companies or even in the administration, they can report it where the monitoring obligations of the common position do not apply. i am also grateful for the possibility - just as we have identified bad practices with a sort of blacklist - of identifying in third countries those who are doing well and who are applying controls on such exports in bilateral trade with the european union. finally, i thank him for the need to be able to integrate european and un regulations more and more in order to arrive at a much stronger approach to arms export control mechanisms.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, please, let's not mix up legitimate concepts: what is legitimate defence, what does an active defence industry mean; let's not prostitute it with business. the key is therefore that the eight criteria agreed in 2008 are effective, and not just a rhetorical reference. and the reality - not the rhetoric - is called, for example, yemen, where hundreds, thousands of people are being bombarded with products made in europe, and this is a disgrace. and therefore, what cannot be said is that what is happening now in the european union must continue to happen because the blood business must continue to flow in order for the reality of our defence to exist. don't prostitute my self-defense with the obscene business of other people's blood. the eight criteria have therefore been adopted to maintain them. if there are penalties for overproduction of milk, for example, it is an obscenity that there are no penalties when arms are sold outside the eight criteria. and it is a fact that leading exporting countries are violating the eight criteria. so we either stick to what we approve or we are honest: we eliminate the eight criteria and in that sense we say, cynically, but at least with honesty and integrity, that we are dedicated to selling to whoever buys us because what matters is business and not ethics. that's the bottom line.
mr president, a report published yesterday by amnesty international stated that each year firearms kill about half a million people. and several million more are trapped in brutal conflicts fueled by irresponsible arms sales. irresponsibilities such as the supply of arms to saudi arabia, which is bombing schools, hospitals and other civilian infrastructure in yemen. or training saudi pilots in spain to later intervene in military operations in yemen, in violation of international humanitarian law. we call not only on the european institutions but also on the spanish government and the spanish royal family in particular to review their business and military relations with countries such as saudi arabia and qatar. corporate interests can never determine foreign policy or take precedence over human rights. this report contains very positive elements in relation to compliance with international treaties, human rights and transparency. we believe that the main thing is not just to vote in favour of this report, but to commit ourselves to ensuring that it does not remain on wet paper.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we condemn in the strongest terms the nuclear escalation on the korean peninsula. it has always been so; regardless of the actor, we condemn and deplore any test that contributes to increasing nuclear armaments in the world. it's in our dna to fight for peace and disarmament. in fact, we are working continuously not only for conventional disarmament but also for non-proliferation and global nuclear disarmament, as these devices threaten the existence of humanity as a whole. what we are clear about is that there can be no military solution to this grave crisis. the shadow of a nuclear conflict in asia is not an option. we also do not believe in sanctions as an instrument of international policy: they solve nothing and they affect the least guilty. the european union must help to reduce tension and deplore the outbursts and threats from both sides. there's too much bravado about a bomb that only lacks a fuse. this reduction in tension must prepare the ground for a frank and calm dialogue within the framework of the united nations system. any other answer is grossly irresponsible. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you very much for asking. we have seen - and the story is there - that sanctions have not helped to resolve any conflict. i will give you just one example: the sanctions against iraq, which led to the death of half a million children. what we must do is not break the un charter, as the united states did in iraq. that is why we were talking about that calm, that lack of threat also against the republic of korea. only then can we achieve a change in the attitude of this country, because whoever has much to do is whoever has contributed to breaking the sovereignty and non-interference of the united nations charter.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the arsenal of long-range missiles with nuclear warheads ten times more powerful than the hiroshima bomb is no joke. it is a very serious threat to international peace and security. i think this is not the time to ask how we got to this situation, but how to defuse this threat. mr mcallister has made a very interesting proposal based on the negotiating experience of the conflict with iran. i believe that north korea is an impervious regime to economic sanctions, given the insensitivity of the nomenklatura to the suffering of the people, as was shown in the famine of the 1990s, in which three million people died. moreover, the north korean regime, paradoxically, makes proliferation the guarantee of its survival. the problem is that this time it has gone too far and is calling into question the credibility of its main interlocutor, china, and china's relationship with the united states. i agree with the diagnosis of the high representative: a nuclear and conventional escalation on the korean peninsula must be avoided at all costs. i also believe that it is important to contribute to stabilizing the situation in the region, to make the economic sanctions effective and, at the same time, to seek a permanent solution on the basis of a dialogue that can produce results. i invite the high representative, who already has experience in these negotiations, to explore this pathway with iran.
madam president, commissioner mogherini, since the cuban missile crisis in 1962, the world has never seen such a plausible prospect of the apocalyptic scenario of a third world war being unleashed as a result of the nuclear programme of a single country. there was a war on the korean peninsula in the 1950s, from 1950 to 1953, with four million dead. but at that time and in that scenario the war could be contained regionally. now it would certainly be a global stage and requires global actors. the united nations security council resolves sanctions with the difficulties imposed by three globally relevant actors: the united states and its understanding or disagreement with china and russia. but the european union cannot rely on the two european states which have permanent seats on the security council, nor on those which have elective seats. it must count as a global player, because otherwise this debate in the european parliament would be meaningless. only if the european union wants to impose effective sanctions and to organise them effectively, and also taking into account that there is an asymmetry between the european union, the united states and north korea - and that is that we are dealing with an actor who does not abide by the rules of law and who therefore constitutes a threat to stability... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. north korea's latest ballistic tests, including the launch of intercontinental missiles over japan and a hydrogen bomb several times more powerful than those launched at hiroshima and nagasaki, are unacceptable events that put the security of the entire region at risk, and are a clear violation of international law and un security council resolutions. it is therefore urgent to redouble all the concerted efforts of the international community to achieve the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula by peaceful means. the socialist group is firmly opposed to a military solution to this crisis. we therefore call for increased diplomatic and economic pressure on the pyongyang regime, with the adoption of tougher sanctions if necessary, including autonomous measures by the union going beyond what has been agreed in the security council. we need europe to exert its full diplomatic weight in a united and coordinated way and that is why we support the efforts of high representative mogherini to get key actors for a peaceful resolution of the crisis such as china and russia to also be fully involved in the pressure on north korea.
in writing. north korea's latest ballistic tests, including the launch of intercontinental missiles over japan and a hydrogen bomb several times more powerful than those launched at hiroshima and nagasaki, are unacceptable events that put the security of the entire region at risk, and are a clear violation of international law and un security council resolutions. it is therefore urgent to redouble all the concerted efforts of the international community to achieve the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula by peaceful means. the socialist group is firmly opposed to a military solution to this crisis. we therefore call for increased diplomatic and economic pressure on the pyongyang regime, with the adoption of tougher sanctions if necessary, including autonomous measures by the union going beyond what has been agreed in the security council. we need europe to exert its full diplomatic weight in a united and coordinated way and that is why we support the efforts of high representative mogherini to get key actors for a peaceful resolution of the crisis such as china and russia to also be fully involved in the pressure on north korea.
in writing. north korea's latest ballistic tests, including the launch of intercontinental missiles over japan and a hydrogen bomb several times more powerful than those launched at hiroshima and nagasaki, are unacceptable events that put the security of the entire region at risk, and are a clear violation of international law and un security council resolutions. it is therefore urgent to redouble all the concerted efforts of the international community to achieve the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula by peaceful means. the socialist group is firmly opposed to a military solution to this crisis. we therefore call for increased diplomatic and economic pressure on the pyongyang regime, with the adoption of tougher sanctions if necessary, including autonomous measures by the union going beyond what has been agreed in the security council. we need europe to exert its full diplomatic weight in a united and coordinated way and that is why we support the efforts of high representative mogherini to get key actors for a peaceful resolution of the crisis such as china and russia to also be fully involved in the pressure on north korea.
in writing. north korea's latest ballistic tests, including the launch of intercontinental missiles over japan and a hydrogen bomb several times more powerful than those launched at hiroshima and nagasaki, are unacceptable events that put the security of the entire region at risk, and are a clear violation of international law and un security council resolutions. it is therefore urgent to redouble all the concerted efforts of the international community to achieve the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula by peaceful means. the socialist group is firmly opposed to a military solution to this crisis. we therefore call for increased diplomatic and economic pressure on the pyongyang regime, with the adoption of tougher sanctions if necessary, including autonomous measures by the union going beyond what has been agreed in the security council. we need europe to exert its full diplomatic weight in a united and coordinated way and that is why we support the efforts of high representative mogherini to get key actors for a peaceful resolution of the crisis such as china and russia to also be fully involved in the pressure on north korea.
madam president, the truth is that i believe that without external action there is no possible migration policy, and in my group we have always argued that the management of migration requires a global perspective, which is what the high representative advocates. i would like to thank you, mrs mogherini, not only for all the work you do, but also for your commitment, your dedication and your responsibility to this parliament, to which you are always accountable. my colleagues have said a lot of things that i would also repeat, but it's a pity, because time here is money. it seems to me that what is happening is that the short-term approach - which is what the council is doing - is detrimental to the long-term solution. external action is deployed to get to the root of the problems, above all. because if we don't get to the root of the problems, we're simply not solving the crisis, which is not a crisis, because it's a structural problem. but since the member states want immediate solutions, since the message being sold is that we must try to prevent migrants and refugees from reaching our borders, all the work that is being done in the long term is being undermined because the european union also appears as one that does not respect international law - we are talking about children, we could talk about women - as that unit which, in reality, is fractured and does not respect its own commitments. so, in effect, one institution is undermining the work of the other two.
madam president, high representative, one of the fundamental objectives of the european union is to have a forward-looking immigration policy, based on solidarity to address both legal and irregular immigration, and no one can say that we have stood by in the face of the migration crisis that we have experienced in recent years, aggravated by the war in syria and the situation in libya. the agreement with turkey has curbed migration flows and prevented deaths in the eastern mediterranean, but the problem has moved to another dangerous route between libya and italy, where traffickers have made the human market their way of life. i therefore welcome the commission's measures to help libya in border and immigration management, and also the extension of the sofia military mission to combat human trafficking in the central mediterranean. the response to the migration challenge is to work with countries of origin and transit on return and border control. but if we continue to ignore the causes that cause people to migrate, such as war, terrorism, and extreme poverty, our efforts will be in vain. no one leaves their land, their home and puts their children's lives in danger, unless death is on their heels. these are the refugees that i have seen in greece, in italy, in lebanon, all with the same look of despair. looking for an answer that doesn't come, because there's a gap between what is said and what is done. the relocation mechanisms are slow, and we must step up the pace of reception. relocation is not a choice, it is an obligation for all member states. we must strengthen the security of the external borders, because that is the best way to preserve the free movement of persons, which i regard as one of the greatest achievements of this european project. finally, i would like to recall that last year one in three asylum seekers was a child, and i call for greater protection for those children who flee war and do so in the face of danger alone.
madam president, i think you have forgotten to explain the most important thing about agreements such as the european union's with libya or niger, the real objective: that no one should come to europe; or rather, that no one should leave africa. they have managed to turn around the policies of migration and asylum. they are no longer focused on reception, but on the opposite: that no one should set foot in europe. it is no longer enough to lock them up in the cie when they arrive here, or to deport them to afghanistan, or to kick them back to morocco. now they're going further. the borders of the european union are controlled by libyan militias. they're arming and funding the people who enslave human beings. in sudan, they give political cover to a president wanted and captured by the international criminal court for genocide, in exchange for him arresting anyone who goes north. and in turkey, erdogan continues his escalation of repression with his blessing, in exchange for him to build walls.
madam president, commissioner mogherini, we have repeatedly, on a recurring basis, discussed in this european parliament the latest developments in the field of migration. we risk 'routinising' the tragedy with our expressions of sadness and frustration, because we will continue to debate them a thousand times unless we change our perspective on at least two essential points. the first is to change the negative view of migration and, in particular, of refugees, and to impose a positive, european and supportive view, by ordering solidarity between the member states and changing the dublin regulation. and the second, by establishing at once - in the absence of legal channels, which condemn so many people to risk their lives, lose them or become slaves of illicit trafficking - legal pathways to the european union for those seeking humanitarian protection in accordance with our own law and international humanitarian law: humanitarian visas, humanitarian corridors; for that you have our full support, commissioner mogherini.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the people of venezuela continue to suffer from violence, human rights violations and the deep economic crisis. all our actions as the european union are focused on finding a way out of the current impasse, in close coordination with our partners around the world, and particularly in latin america. all our efforts must aim at creating space for mediation between the government and the opposition. this is the only way of alleviating the suffering of the venezuelan people. the political violence this year has already cost too many lives. as many as 130 people were killed from april to august. human rights violations are having a negative impact not only on the population but also on neighbouring countries, with many venezuelans fleeing the country. the economic crisis has led to a further deterioration in living conditions. the scarcity of food is affecting children, elderly people and women in particular, not to mention the widespread shortages of medicines. as we expected, the election of a constituent assembly with serious doubts as to its legitimacy and representativeness has only contributed to raising tensions. even before it took office on 2 august we had issued a statement explaining that the european union does not and will not recognise the constituent assembly as legitimate. we have made clear that some steps are now urgent to de-escalate tensions and prevent a further deterioration in the situation. it is essential that the authorities fulfil the commitments agreed upon last year and reiterated in the letter from the vatican secretary of state, cardinal pietro parolin. first, a clear electoral calendar must be established to allow the participation of all political parties from the opposition. in this regard it will also be critically important that the upcoming regional elections are free, fair and transparent on issues such as the registration of candidates, campaigning and the voting itself. so we will keep a close watch on this. second, a humanitarian channel should be urgently opened. we are monitoring the situation very carefully. my team from dg echo is present in bogota and carries out monitoring missions regularly. let me stress here that the eu remains ready to reinforce its support to help address the most urgent needs of the population. due to difficulties in access to the country what we are doing now is limited – targeted assistance in health and nutrition sectors – but we are exploring all possibilities for further support together with member states, other donors and partner agencies. third point, imprisoned opponents should be freed. we also believe that the acts and threats against the main opposition leaders, including the national assembly president julio borges, the former public prosecutor luisa ortega, and the wife of leopoldo lópez, lilian tintori, are major obstacles to a peaceful negotiated solution. fourth and last point, the institutional prerogatives of the national assembly should be respected. the constituent assembly is de facto replacing the legitimate parliament and this situation must come to an end. the european union is united in backing these requests. our unity was confirmed once again by eu foreign ministers in their informal meeting last week in tallinn, and the high representative, federica mogherini, and the ministers discussed their most recent diplomatic contacts and coordinated ahead of the meetings that the high representative will hold next week in new york at the un general assembly’s ministerial week. we are ready to provide all our support to find a sustainable solution to the crisis together with our partners, starting with the latin american countries, the holy see and the united nations. we have continuously expressed our support for regional mediation towards a non-violent return to democratic order and to address the economic and social plight of the venezuelan people. eu foreign ministers in tallinn also discussed the possibility of introducing targeted measures as a tool to raise pressure. at the moment we remain focused on our diplomatic and political contacts. we are ready to support by all means the possibility of a credible and meaningful regional mediation process, if requested by both sides and provided the four conditions that i listed are met. this is a moment of truth not only for venezuela but for the whole of latin america. the primary responsibility for ending this crisis lies in the country and in the region, and yet we will not close our eyes to the suffering of the people of venezuela. our contacts with our partners are discreet but constant and we really count on this parliament also to use its network to facilitate mediation and of course, to work together for peace in venezuela.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr commissioner, the situation in venezuela has reached a critical point. it is no longer possible to wait for further events to act. we could understand mrs mogherini's prudence and her initial diplomatic position, hoping that some negotiated solution could be found. but maduro has consummated a autogolpe de estado that no longer allows for expressing concerns or exploring sanctions. the time has come to condemn, without any palliation, a regime which, without respecting its constitution, has destroyed every vestige of democracy. he prevented the revocation with the lure of a "dialogue trap". you have promoted and carried out the election of a monochrome and illegitimate constituent assembly, commissioner. it nullified the capacities of the thus legitimate and constitutional national assembly. he fired the attorney general luisa ortega, who has had to go into exile and in turn has accused maduro and diosdado cabello of being two capos of a narco-state. it excarcerates and incarcerates successively the political prisoners leopoldo lópez and antonio ledezma to demonstrate an omnimode power, outside any kind of judicial decision. he ends any hint of a power-sharing arrangement, dismissing the supreme court and appointing another appointee from among his accomplices. now he's starting a persecution of the opposition leaders to disqualify them for the next election. he did it with capriles and he'll keep doing it with the others. mrs mogherini absent, there is no longer any point in playing games with a bloody dictatorial regime, which is ready to engage directly in an illegal, illegitimate and inhumane process of cubanisation. many people are dying, some by gunfire, others as a result of the hunger and destitution to which the regime has subjected a people belonging to a state which has within it enormous wealth. the time has come for the european union to take responsibility and lead with a common position. we must take action and impose measures which, without further harming the venezuelan people, freeze assets and prevent access to the territory of the european union for all those involved in the serious violations of human rights in venezuela. we must demand the immediate release of all political prisoners; establish a channel for humanitarian assistance; demand respect for the independence of the candidates for regional elections; demand that elections be called for the presidency of the republic in a free and transparent process that can be observed by credible and prestigious international bodies.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, the creation of a constituent assembly and the deprivation of the legislative powers of the national assembly, in our opinion, violate the rule of law. they are clearly overriding the most basic democratic rules, and that is why i have to say quite clearly that the constituent assembly is not democratic and that the european union and this parliament do not recognise it. secondly, i believe it is essential to continue to call on the venezuelan government to release the political prisoners, to restore the powers of the national assembly - the legislative powers - to respect the separation of powers and to facilitate international aid in the form of humanitarian aid for the venezuelan people. we are also still committed to dialogue and negotiation, because a major agreement between the government and the opposition is essential if there is to be a democratic and peaceful solution in that country. we do not exclude - and i say this clearly - the pressure that the international community is beginning to put on the government of venezuela and, more particularly, on the political leaders of the venezuelan regime for the violation of human rights. we are also prepared to take that step if the pressure actually helps us to reach an internal agreement that will facilitate a democratic and peaceful solution to the crisis in venezuela.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. any day they change the name of this institution to the european parliament and affairs on venezuela. it is regrettable to see this parliament and the european union subordinate themselves to the aggressive and destabilising policy of donald trump, a policy of aggression which is patterned after the one used to overthrow and assassinate president allende forty-four years ago. it is deplorable that this parliament and the european union are supporting a section of the opposition that has used street terrorism, committed hate crimes and encouraged a coup d'état. although some pretend to ignore the national constituent assembly, more than eight million venezuelans voted for it in universal and auditable elections and, to date, no opposition party has formally challenged them. and most importantly, the next day peace was established. there's peace now. there's an election route in forty days with all the opposition parties. they do not make the same mistakes as this parliament and the european union made by their irresponsible interference in libya or myanmar. in venezuela, there are two sides, not just the one you hear. that's at least eight million votes. eight million citizens. you should listen to them too.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, once again we have to see how we can use the instruments we have as the european union to promote a negotiated and agreed solution to the political and economic crisis and, above all, so that we can once again have an institutional dynamic shared by government and opposition. i think we have a chance; we are better off today than we were a few weeks ago. i would like to congratulate the president-in-office on his excellent report, and i would like to thank him for his work. today there was a meeting between the french foreign minister le drian and the venezuelan foreign minister, in which both countries reiterated their support for this process of negotiation in the dominican republic, and i believe that tomorrow the venezuelan minister will travel to madrid, where i hope that support for this mediation can also be shown. i think the european union should be focusing on this moment here. i think that at this stage it would not be conducive to this dialogue process if, now that the negotiations in the dominican republic are beginning, we started talking about sanctions, even if they are personal. i think that if this dialogue has been initiated, we should concentrate on it so that it can be a success. because, besides, i have the feeling that we are not just playing with the future of venezuela right now, that too. this is beginning to affect the regional dialogue and the dynamics of cooperation between the countries of latin america and it is therefore very important that the dialogue process goes well, so that we can resume in a normal way, for example, the eu-celac dialogue, which, as we all know, is suspended because of this crisis and i think this is not a positive thing. i would therefore ask the european union to support the mediation efforts. this is not the time to talk about sanctions and if there is this opportunity in the dominican republic, please, let's bet on it.
mr president, commissioner, you have described the situation in venezuela perfectly: widespread violence, enormous suffering of the population, humanitarian emergency, violation of human rights, usurpation of national sovereignty and a totalitarian drift. that is why this parliament will have to speak out again and tomorrow, in mr lópez's report, it will have to make a strong statement. my group has been calling for targeted sanctions that do not penalise the venezuelan people against those responsible for serious human rights violations, and in this connection, mr president, i think it is important to stress that the european parliament must once again make a clear statement in support of the democratic opposition in venezuela. beaten, persecuted, imprisoned, disabled she is giving an example and a witness of dignity in her struggle for freedom. i would ask the commissioner, mr president, to convey a message to the high representative: pope francis, on his return from a visit to colombia, has called for greater involvement of the united nations. you have referred to regional mediation. in view of the failure of the mediation by the presidents on behalf of unasur, which was suspended in mercosur and condemned by the oas, i would like to ask you whether you think that the mediation by a special envoy or a special representative of the un secretary-general, with the support of the international community and of course the european union, could help to bring the country out of the political crisis and the humanitarian emergency in which it finds itself.
mr president, commissioner, please convey to mrs mogherini what we are discussing today. today we are not talking about a political crisis between two parties in venezuela. dear colleagues, in venezuela there is an installed tyranny, there is a corrupt plot, with bosses linked to drug trafficking or to plots like odebrecht. and they will do whatever it takes to stay in power: lying, repressing, starving the population or murdering dissidents. we are talking about 130 people killed by armed groups in venezuela so far this year. we are talking about 603 political prisoners, according to the latest list compiled by the venezuelan criminal forum. in the face of the tyrant maduro, in the face of his corrupt henchmen, dialogue is not worth it. the dialogue we know has failed. what is needed is to give value and recognition to the democratic opposition and civil society that represent the dignity of venezuela. they expect us to act and we owe it to them. if we impose sanctions on other countries, why not venezuela? it is time for sanctions for them, for the rulers responsible for human rights violations. the un high commissioner has established clear examples of systematic institutional violence: a case of crimes against humanity. what are we here for, if not to ask for sanctions and to ask for accountability? it is time for us to act, and venezuela deserves this and much more from us.
mr president, the situation in venezuela - as has already been said - is very serious. the elections to the so-called constituent assembly on 30 july were a very important milestone in the process of the regime's involution into a dictatorship. it practically ends the division of powers, violates multiparty system, and democratically elected institutions are unknown, ignored. the european parliament, like other eu institutions, its member states and much of the international community, does not recognise these elections. they unite us with latin american countries, principles and values. that is why we cannot be indifferent to the political, economic and social crisis that venezuela is going through. many of its inhabitants are of european origin: spanish, portuguese and italian citizens; in short, many europeans emigrated there when the country was different: respectful of freedoms, democracy and very prosperous economically. recently vargas llosa wrote that venezuela was for decades an exemplary democracy, and that then its governments, literally, "fought a relentless battle against the dictatorships that thrived in the rest of latin america". today, unfortunately, the situation is very different. today there are many venezuelans trying to flee their country; there are many political prisoners and also many torture sufferers, recently denounced by the united nations high commissioner for human rights. the recent testimony of yon goicochea is shocking. on the other hand, until recently, the attorney general luisa ortega, now in exile, speaks openly of rampant corruption. these and other issues are the subject of a specific amendment on venezuela which many of us have tabled to mr lópez's report on european union-latin america relations. i hope that this amendment will be accepted tomorrow. and that's the end of it. venezuela needs the release of political prisoners and elections as soon as possible. i am sure that free and democratic elections will bring a decisive end to the lamentable maduro regime, which a country like venezuela does not deserve. and i repeat, mr president, what i have said to mrs mogherini on other occasions: you must get more involved. the european union's action in venezuela, in this very serious crisis, has no visibility whatsoever and i fear that it is also ineffective.
mr president, unfortunately, the situation in venezuela is continuing to worsen. a crisis, that of the country, which has multiple faces. a political, institutional crisis, aggravated this summer after the convocation of a constituent assembly, which the opposition did not recognize, and with a process without democratic guarantees, in a country that we already know has politicians in prison. but also a humanitarian and economic crisis, with a country economically broken, which has seen much of its prosperity laminated, with hyperinflation, needs for basic resources ... all of that combined with a security crisis: violence in the streets, deaths in political protests. we therefore want to send three messages. first, to support the non-recognition of the constituent assembly by the high representative and the member states. secondly, we must promote the path of national reconciliation, dialogue and free elections. and thirdly, the european union and its member states must use all the political and democratic tools to push in this direction.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all let me thank all of you for your substantial interventions. as i have already said, we will continue to follow closely the developments in venezuela. regarding our efforts in the humanitarian field, i have already described all of our efforts and we will definitely keep in touch with countries in latin america, the caribbean and other partners in order to be on the same line. we remain committed to supporting efforts to foster a peaceful, negotiated solution, but we are also aware that the time for engaging seriously in such efforts is quickly running out. we are ready to consider all available instruments to help the country find a way out of the crisis. the european union and its member states, our member states, continue to monitor the evolution of the situation closely and will adjust the eu’s approach as dictated by circumstances, without ruling out any option, in case democratic principles are further undermined. i trust that we will continue to count on your support and the support of this political body, the european parliament. we have played a crucial role in calling for a peaceful and constitutional outcome to the crisis in venezuela. give me the chance to encourage you to continue doing so.
in writing. this debate on venezuela in the european parliament is a further example of the international concern about the situation in that country. in the context of economic crisis, shortage of basic products, citizen insecurity, political violence and acute institutional tension, the socialists agree on the following points: -the creation of a constituent assembly and the deprivation of its legislative powers to the national assembly violate the rule of law. the constituent assembly is not democratic and the eu does not recognise it. - we continue to demand from the government of venezuela: the release of political prisoners; the restitution of powers to the national assembly; respect for the separation of powers; that international aid be provided to the people of venezuela. -we continue to bet on dialogue and internal agreement between the government and the opposition to establish an electoral calendar, as the only peaceful and democratic way out of the current crisis. if this does not happen, we will ask the eu to study and adopt personalised sanctioning measures against the members of the venezuelan government and constituent assembly who are responsible for human rights violations.
in writing. the most painful thing about the situation in venezuela is the humanitarian problem. it's an economic catastrophe, it's the most indebted country in the world, which indicates that there is no option for foreign exchange, there is high inflation, deterioration of industrial production levels, collapse of agriculture... these events have led to a supply crisis. there is no food or medicine, poverty has increased by 82%, the mortality rate of inpatients has increased tenfold and the death of newborns in hospitals by a hundred percent. in conclusion: dead, starving, political prisoners and wounded. and in the meantime maduro invents an anti-democratic national constituent assembly; he dismisses the attorney general, luisa ortega díaz; he continues the persecution and continues to harass the venezuelan opposition and all citizens; he repeatedly rejects humanitarian assistance. i subscribe to the words of the united nations high commissioner for human rights, zeid raad al hussein, and i now reiterate my shared request for recourse and denunciation before the international criminal court for maduro and his accomplices. venezuela deserves democracy, freedom, justice, peace, security and human rights. long live the free venezuela!
in writing. this debate on venezuela in the european parliament is a further example of the international concern about the situation in that country. in the context of economic crisis, shortage of basic products, citizen insecurity, political violence and acute institutional tension, socialists agree on the following points:- the creation of a constituent assembly and the deprivation of its legislative powers to the national assembly violate the rules of the rule of law. the constituent assembly is not democratic and the eu does not recognise it. - we continue to demand from the government of venezuela: 1) the freedom of political prisoners. 2) the restoration of powers to the national assembly. 3) respect for the separation of powers. 4) acceptance of international aid to the people of venezuela. - we continue to support dialogue and internal agreement between the government and the opposition to establish an electoral calendar, as the only peaceful and democratic way out of the current crisis. if this does not happen, we will ask the eu to study and adopt personalised sanctioning measures against the members of the venezuelan government and constituent assembly who are responsible for human rights violations.
in writing. this debate on venezuela in the european parliament is a further example of the international concern about the situation in that country. in the context of economic crisis, shortage of basic products, citizen insecurity, political violence and acute institutional tension, socialists agree on the following points: a) the creation of a constituent assembly and the deprivation of its legislative powers to the national assembly violate the rule of law. the constituent assembly is not democratic and the eu does not recognise it. b) we continue to demand from the government of venezuela: - the release of political prisoners - the restitution of powers to the national assembly - respect for the separation of powers - that international aid be provided to the people of venezuela c) we continue to bet on dialogue and internal agreement between government and opposition to establish an electoral calendar, as the only peaceful and democratic way out of the current crisis. if this does not happen, we will ask the eu to study and adopt personalised sanctioning measures against the members of the venezuelan government and constituent assembly who are responsible for human rights violations.
the rapporteur. mr president, as we all know, the world is undergoing a rapid and profound reordering of international relations, and europe is in danger of being caught between atlantic weakness, a neighbourhood full of conflicts with some aggressive actors and the rise of asia. but this should not only concern us as europeans; it also concerns us because it puts at risk the values and principles that europe represents in the world: the will to build international relations based on multilateralism, dialogue and rules. for all this, and faced with this new scenario, it also opens up for us, it gives us the opportunity to strengthen strategic ties with those who share this vision and who, moreover, share an agenda in the world. that is the purpose of this report presented here today: to explain and to tell all the european institutions that, as a result of the new international reality, relations between the european union and latin america are no longer just a matter of convictions. they're a matter of necessity. that we want to work together and we have to work together between both regions to promote inclusive governance, defend development goals, fight climate change and protect the paris agreement, fight for gender equality, impose governance, a globalization with rules and sharing its benefits. an agenda that we share with these actors - the latin american and caribbean - with both regions, and that we do not share with all the big players on the international stage. it is clear that we have many links - historical, cultural, human, economic - with both regions. but no relationship can be taken for granted, especially also because of the profound changes, the interactions that exist on this continent, in europe, but that have also been in latin america in recent years. since 1999, there has been a strategic partnership between the union and the subcontinent, but the relationship between the union and latin america has often been relegated. today is the time for it to become a reality. and we have the tools to do that. we have a long, long list of association agreements in negotiation: we have association agreements in progress with mexico, with chile, that can drive our relationship forward; an agreement in negotiation with mercosur; we also have a recent agreement for political dialogue and cooperation with cuba, which we understand has a regional impact. but we don't just have this list of agreements. we have an institutional agenda at the eu-celac summits which, unfortunately - and i will refer to it later - can be clouded by some of the problems of the region, such as venezuela. we must act with greater strength to coordinate our position at the g20, the united nations, the international monetary fund and the wto. we must and must continue to maintain development cooperation with the region. we must continue to work together to ensure greater mobility; to protect common security, especially that of some countries in central america - a threat that also exists in europe; to follow closely the hopeful developments in colombia, while at the same time addressing the very serious problems in venezuela. the time is now. it is now time to give our relations a boost, to continue working together, to set out a clear strategy for the region from the commission, to strengthen our ties and to speak out in defence of shared values and principles.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, since the beginning of this commission’s mandate we sought to further strengthen relations with latin america and the caribbean. our culture and economic ties date back centuries but we are also getting into a new era. our economies are more connected than ever. we are partners and allies on the great global issues of our times, from climate change to sustainable development. we share the vision of a more multilateral world, where all continents and all peoples have a say and contribute to global governance. as mentioned in your excellent report, the european union seeks to reinforce its partnership with latin america and the caribbean not only in terms of economic change, but as a partner in social progress and in the defence of common values. in order to do that, we have at our disposal powerful cooperation instruments such as eu-funded programmes and technical or high-level meetings that allow us to foster cooperation and strengthen the ties between both decision-makers and civil societies. latin america and the caribbean are now looking for their own way towards regional integration, both on a continental scale and within its sub-regions. for instance, we are deepening our engagement with the pacific alliance, in particular on academic exchanges, consular assistance, free movement of citizens or investment policies. in your report you urge the high representative to ‘look into the possibility of the eu participating as an observer’ in the pacific alliance. the eu has already been invited to the high-level meetings of the pacific alliance, including the summit in cali (27-30 june), as a special guest. we will look into the possibility of becoming an observer as the pacific alliance continues to consolidate itself. let me also mention our relations with mercosur, which have been galvanised by resuming the negotiation of an association agreement. our goal is to finish the negotiations in the coming months, but beyond the regional and sub-regional organisation, our bilateral relations with almost all countries of the continent are going through a particularly dynamic phase. let me just mention a few concrete examples. the negotiations to modernise the eu-mexico association agreement are advancing at a good pace. via meetings, videoconferences and negotiation rounds, the agreement is taking shape and we aim to conclude negotiations in the coming months. the council is currently discussing the mandate to negotiate the update of the eu-chile association agreement. this negotiation will allow us to deepen our relations with a close ally with whom we share a rich common agenda, including peace and security. another partner in defence and security is colombia, where we have supported the peace agreement from the moment it was signed with a dedicated trust fund. let me pay tribute to the role the european parliament has been playing to support an active contribution by the european union to the peace process in colombia. the bilateral ceasefire announced by the government and the eln on 4 september constitutes a further step forward for peace in colombia. the european union, also through the high representative’s special envoy mr eamon gilmore, will continue our work to help the peace process overcome all remaining obstacles. peace in colombia was not the only historic event taking place in the region over the past few months. our political dialogue and cooperation agreement with cuba constitutes a landmark for the eu’s policy towards the region. in a sign of a new era in latin america and the caribbean, we are looking forward to the launch of the provisional application of an agreement that will allow us to strengthen our relations in a wide array of areas, including human rights. human rights is precisely one of the areas where we cooperate the most with our partners in the region, including in central america and the caribbean, where we are also strengthening our support to fight against climate change. the situation in venezuela makes for a striking exception after such a long list of positive developments. the political violence and the economic crisis risk destabilising not only the country, but the entire region. this crisis encourages us to seek even closer cooperation with all countries in latin america and the caribbean to support any attempt for regional mediation between the venezuela government and the opposition. our regions may be geographically distant, but there is so much that we share. we have a direct interest in seeing latin america and the caribbean prosper, with peace, development and social justice for all. our commitment is here to stay. our friendship is here to stay, and our partnership can only get deeper and stronger in time.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, as this report points out, we must strengthen and modernise our cooperation and relations with latin america and the caribbean, and a good way to do this if not the best is to cooperate with them in achieving the sustainable development goals. the latin america and caribbean area has grown in recent years and has lifted millions of people out of poverty, but still today 175 million live below the poverty line, live in exclusion and live in inequality. measuring our cooperation by a single indicator - gross domestic product - and excluding middle-income countries from it is a bad solution, it is unfair and it is discriminatory. because gdp is blind to territorial inequalities, it is blind to generational inequalities, and it is blind to the specific risk of climate change. a good way of cooperating with them is to support the latin american countries which, together with the united nations, are proposing a way of restructuring sovereign debt in a sustainable and at the same time supportive manner.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the report we are to consider this evening mr juncker, i remind you is the report on the political relations of the union with latin america. this report succeeds the one which was once prepared by our colleague mr salafranca with great success and prestige. today it needs to be updated in the light of political, social and economic developments as well as geostrategic trends in the region. this report provides an overview of the situation in latin america and the caribbean and of relations with the european union. we sincerely thank the rapporteur for his attitude, his receptivity, the receptivity he has shown to our proposals, which have already been reflected in a large, albeit partial, consensus in the vote in the committee on foreign affairs. we hope and fear that in the vote tomorrow we will have some difference, but it will be small; because unity is sharing the great values and we share them without any doubt. we must continue to strengthen institutional links, such as eurolat and celac. the european union shares with its latin american partners the importance of principles and values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law, as well as the importance of credible legal frameworks, which are indispensable for maintaining political stability and social and economic development. we have reflected the overall positive trend towards lasting democratization in latin america by holding regular and fair elections. this process of democratisation across the region has been accompanied by the formal recognition of citizens' rights, such as health care, employment or education, many of which are now codified in national constitutions. the european parliament is committed to working through eurolat to find common regional positions, support human rights defenders, strengthen the protection of indigenous communities and continue to encourage and assist latin american governments to achieve a sustainable balance between the exploitation of natural resources on the one hand and the protection of the environment and the rights of local communities on the other. we close this year celebrating peace in colombia. we welcome the opening of talks with the eln. we shall support the rapporteur's amendment in that sense, symbolically, which is better than ours, without prejudice to the fact that we will have to disagree in the analysis and the vote on venezuela, where it is not a question of rejecting but of condemning. thank you, mr rapporteur.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to start by asking everyone not to question the report on latin america by looking at venezuela or cuba. i think it is important that europe should take the warm view of latin america that javier lópez's report proposes. i would like to begin by thanking javier for having drawn up this report - and the alternative rapporteurs and political groups who have worked with him - so that europe can look at latin america in a way that it has not done so far - in my opinion, unfortunately. there's a permanent look at eastern europe, a look at the mediterranean, for obvious reasons; but the atlantic basin is not a border of distance, really, there's not that much space. there is a historical cycle to be closed, there is an economic, commercial, cultural reality, there is a lot of things to be done together in latin america and europe. we agree: climate change, said enrique guerrero, and i would add the fight against tax havens, for fair international taxation, for an orderly democracy, for a regulated world governance. all of this links latin america and europe. there is no better neighbour for europe than latin america. there is no better friend for europe than latin america. that is the message that this report conveys to us: the possibility of bringing closer, of strengthening, of making the relationship between europe and latin america stronger.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, it is a pity that a report whose rapporteur wanted to add to and support the spirit of strengthening relations between the eu and latin america, mutual development and respect, has been completely distorted by the proposals of alde, epp and ecr, which have turned it into an arrogant report marked by a vision that has a neocolonial touch. this text does not put the european union and latin america on an equal footing, but puts the union in an absurd position of guardianship. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. the addendum on venezuela, calling for sanctions, directly links up with the attitude of a president of the european parliament who, by claiming to represent the whole of this house, goes beyond his duties and imposes his vision above the resolutions of this parliament, while daring to torpedo the bilateral eurolat-eu-celac dialogue. this report gives rise to this extremist view of the breakdown of the dialogue between europe and latin america and we shall therefore vote against it.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done in putting forward a text that frames a message that is important to me: to see how the european union and latin america can strengthen joint cooperation to strengthen multilateralism on a global scale, at a time, of course, when, with the trump administration, that is at risk. i also think it is important that we reflect - and the report does in some parts - on how we update the cooperation agenda. i would like to thank the rapporteur for accepting some of our proposals on climate change, on combating violence against women - which is of particular concern to us - and on the role that mesecvi can play in all this. but i think we really need to update that relationship between europe and latin america and, particularly - and my group has insisted on this many times - we cannot pivot just to the kind of trade agreements we have been developing in recent years. and here i think it is important to give a much more political dimension to the relationship, and not so much in the framework of this type of agreement which, from our point of view, is not always positive. for example, if we want to fight tax havens - and i fully agree with what was said - we have to look, for example, at the agreement between the european union and mexico, how that agreement is used, for example, for money laundering. because it's being used. and we have to look at those things together. i would just like to say that i am sorry that the debate on venezuela has been included in this report. i wasn't playing. i think it could have been done elsewhere, and it may have broken some consensus. i would just like to end by thanking the rapporteur, mr javi lópez, for his work, which i think has been excellent.
mr president, i would also like, like other colleagues, first of all - and mr de grandes has done so on behalf of our political group - to thank the rapporteur for his constant willingness to dialogue and for his positive and constructive attitude, which has enabled us to accept the amendments which mr de grandes and i have tabled on behalf of our political group. i think the rapporteur has rightly pointed out that the european union, in this unstable world, needs allies who share values and interests in order to face global challenges, and i think that, indeed, the bi-regional strategic partnership is still to be built and, of course, there is still a lot to be done. i am glad that this report is moving from words to deeds and not just rhetorical questions. i therefore think that we must stress the importance of time management in the association agreements referred to by the commissioner, in the renewal of the agreements with mexico and chile and in the conclusion of the pending subject of the eu-mercosur association agreement. i am glad that this report also calls for argentina to be given the space it deserves as a member of the g-20, a leading member of mercosur and a relevant player on the international scene. mr guerrero, as rapporteur for the committee on development, referred to the need for latin american countries to be able to avoid being excluded - i am referring to middle-income countries - from the new concept of development proposed by the european union. and, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying, since the president of the european parliament is not here, that in his statements he has adhered exactly to the terms adopted in the resolutions. i would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur for his willingness to do so, and i think mr jauregui is right: this report is a model of how the responsibilities which the citizens have entrusted to us in our common work should be carried out.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report and encourage the community institutions to take its contents very seriously. the consolidation in this region of the world of shared values on human rights, democracy and social and labour standards is key to improving the quality of life and opportunities of its inhabitants. and to do that, we support peace processes like the one in colombia, including the reintegration of farc members, or condemning regimes like the one in venezuela, denouncing the repression of opponents by the illegitimate constituent assembly, and working for a democratic solution. the commission has also been active in promoting the development of the european union's external relations, including the establishment of a european union external relations office. these actions, in addition to a contribution to peace, stability and social justice, are a strategic requirement at a time when other ways of doing things are taking hold in the area. and that is why the 2030 agenda for development and its objectives must be the main instruments for cooperation in all aspects of economic, social and sustainable development.
mr president, i believe that this report reflects the progress and challenges faced by the continent over the last decade, and in that sense we welcome the support for the peace process in colombia and for the dialogue with the eln. however, i do not think that it resolves one of the great contradictions, which has to do with the unequal effects of the free trade agreements on the development of the region. most of these free trade agreements, instead of opening the door to mutually beneficial political and commercial relations, are building walls with latin america. these are walls which, in the name of development, continue to increase inequality between the few who benefit from free trade agreements and the majority who suffer the poverty of its effects. the european union must not be a democratic surplus which can be negotiated in a trade agreement, but must be the central element, the lowest common denominator in our agreements.
mr president, thank you to mr lópez for this report, an important report because the european union's relations with latin america are also important. i would like to stress the many deep historical, cultural, economic, human and political links between the two blocs. in addition, countries such as mexico and brazil are already included in latin america, and are recognised as strategic partners by the european union. the european union and latin america must tackle global challenges in a coordinated way in such an interconnected and complex world. together we are one third of the members of the united nations. furthermore, we share - i think - a certain vision of international governance and human rights, and both blocs believe in effective multilateralism. we are, i would say, natural allies. our relationship must be intensified, taking advantage of the various existing frameworks and forums. as everyone knows, china is increasing its presence in latin america and, on the other hand, from the new administration in washington are coming some signals that generate uncertainty or confusion in the subcontinent. in this situation, we europeans must strengthen our presence in the region. how did you do that? it has already been said: the modernisation of the agreements with mexico and chile must be completed soon. we must also conclude the already long-running negotiations between the european union and mercosur, the unfinished business mentioned by my colleague mr salafranca, which would create, together with other agreements already in existence, a vast economic and trade area between the european union and latin america. i would like to end by stressing the importance of the pacific alliance, and i believe, as mr lópez's report, which we will be voting on tomorrow, shows, that mrs mogherini and the european external action service should study the desirability of the european union being in this bloc - the pacific alliance - as an observer, something which several member states, including spain, have already done.
mr president, political relations between the european union and latin america in 2017 clearly needed to be seen in a new light: that of the challenges of the 21st century posed by two partners; two partners who appreciate and need each other and who share their anti and pro: anti-impunity, anti-corruption, anti-inequality, anti-exploitation and anti-repression of freedoms; and human rights, pro-modern democracy, pro-sustainable development and pro-free trade. however, for some reason, the far left - mr couso - has said that he will vote against this report because we have introduced an amendment calling for sanctions against the dictator who has devastated venezuela and his cronies. i cannot understand it, nor can i understand that another colleague, mr urtasun, said that it was not the time, that venezuela was not playing now. the united nations has recognised that the situation in venezuela is a grave danger to the stability and security of the region. when do we have to talk about venezuela, then? i would like to congratulate mr lópez on his vision, on his ability to include this integrated aspect of our approach to latin america, and i would certainly like to reaffirm here the full will of this parliament to rise to the occasion.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and of course thank my dear colleagues for this important debate. this debate confirms that we all share a strong commitment to further strengthening our relations with latin america and the caribbean. all eu policy instruments are being used to foster and continuously adapt our partnership. it is through dialogue, cooperation and engagement that our common values, goals and challenges will result in a strong partnership with these countries. the european union needs to continue reinforcing the areas for dialogue and adapting to regional or sub-regional initiatives. this is why we will keep working on the negotiations of modern and comprehensive association agreements, in particular on strengthening our cooperation and aid, and of course, on our political dialogues with our partners in the region.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to add a few points. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues very much for their words and especially for the open work that has been done in the last few months, the cooperation of the alternative rapporteurs, of all the groups, which has certainly improved the text and made the result, for tomorrow, a better text. i would also like to thank the previous rapporteur for this report, mr salafranca, who has already been mentioned and whom we have counted on as a whole and as a parliament. generosity has been mentioned before. i think i have tried to work with that spirit - which i have found most of the time; not all, i have to say - especially because of one thing: because the more we care about a subject, the more unity it has, the stronger the message. and that is the idea i have tried to work with, and that is the idea i have worked with over the last few months and will continue to work with in this parliament, certainly with many of the colleagues here today. on behalf of all those who have been working in the last few months, i would like to say and ask the commission and say and tell the high representative that this work must serve the commission, mrs mogherini and the european external action service as a reference, as a guide, for the coming years. and to convey that the report is about both regions moving from the strong friendship we have to the alliance, and that we understand that, in a changing world, where we have a lot of instability due to our neighbourhood, the atlantic remains the biggest source of power in the world, and it is a source that we have to use and reinforce in the face of the instability of our neighbourhood. we shall do so, and this report is intended to contribute to that, in relations with latin america and the european union.
president tajani, president juncker, today i will address you in spanish. mr president, president juncker, surprisingly you did not mention the situation in spain with the forthcoming referendum in catalonia. because hundreds of thousands of catalans are repeatedly calling for a referendum on self-determination as the scots. the spanish government has never even wanted to talk about it. i'm not talking to you. i never have. the catalan parliament has approved the law on the referendum by an absolute majority. as if it were a crime to vote, the reaction of the government of spain has been the judicial denunciation against the president of the parliament and other parliamentarians and the threats to the government, to more than a thousand public officials and the catalan media so that they do not speak or act in favor of the referendum. these are clear and unacceptable attacks on freedom of expression. i don't want you to speak for independence. that's what the catalans must do. the european parliament has called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are not left behind. i ask him: why does the comisión not intervene to defend freedom of expression in spain? in other countries, surely it would.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in europe began in 2008. you, mr juncker, will leave office in 2019 and this period will go down in history as a lost decade or, perhaps, as the decade of cuts in europe. the european union is paralysed, but it is not a question of speed - as has been said many times - but of political direction. with your speech you insist on continuing on the same path that has brought us to this situation, and in a triumphalist way. these are recipes for building an anti-democratic machine, resorting if necessary to threats and financial blackmail to impose a failed neoliberal policy, generating disaffection and euroscepticism in more and more layers of the european population. the crisis of the european project is not solved by new neoliberal trade treaties, more australian-style border outsourcing, higher military budgets, or a financial authority that imposes austerity measures that respond to the agendas and interests of large multinational governments and lobbies. we need a change of direction, a 180-degree turn in foreign, economic and environmental policy to build a european project, not for the elites, but democratic and from below. that would be a change of direction.
madam president, the winds are blowing in our favour, mr juncker, that is true. we have put the euro crisis behind us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i liked his speech, a political speech: freedom, equality, rule of law. it is true that in the european union, we sometimes seem to care more about solving financial crises than social or political crises. brexit, for example, is our biggest failure, and here i hear brexit talked about as if it were just another free trade agreement. europe is no longer synonymous with the european union, and it is not the european union's sole responsibility to defend the idea of europe. we must prevent the emergence of two different europeans within our continent in the future after brexit. i share your view on the courts of justice, respect for european and national courts, and the rule of law as part of the raison d'être of the european union. there are countries that are attacking the separation of powers and, in my country, in one region, the constitution is being attacked. nationalism spreads and spreads like a virus. the constitution of each member state is also the constitution of the european union, the unity of my country is also the unity of the european union. the commission therefore also has - and i share - the responsibility to defend the constitution of the member states and the responsibility to defend the unity of the member states. the rule of law is born of individual freedom, but it grows and lives thanks to the law and the courts of justice.
madam president, europe has not been an important part of our dreams for years, and that project, synonymous with development, opportunities and equality, has become a very different scenario: precariousness, austerity, economic crisis. today, those of us who believe in the european project will share the need and concern to share and advance new policies for the european union. the european social pillar must be a priority. it is not possible that in the europe of the 21st century there should be a working class living below the poverty line. let us talk about the fight against climate change, the fight against terrorism, asylum and immigration policy. it is fundamental. i thank you, mr juncker, for your reference to the rule of law. europe is a project based on democracy and it is therefore essential to ensure respect for the constitutional order in each and every member state. there is no time to lose, we must tackle the changes now. diversity, dialogue, respect and cohesion are what define europe. let nothing and no one change the meaning of this word.
madam president, president juncker, in this final part of your speech you have made your longest and most intentional speech, but we are demanding more and, above all, more concrete action: legal channels for migrants and refugees; the blue card for economically selective migration is not enough if there is no humanitarian visa; the social pillar; decent work, especially for young people; the fight against child poverty and inequality; the fight against fraud and tax havens, after what we have seen in the pana commission of inquiry; but, above all, the rule of law, which is the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and let us call things by their right names: that can happen in poland, in hungary or in catalonia: everywhere it is the negation of europe.
mr president, mr juncker, as you can see here, my party, the pnv, celebrated the basque national day in 1932 under the slogan 'euskadi europe'. that is why we like her proposals, but she failed to remind women who suffer from inequality and violence. we believe in the union that describes: convinced and coherent partners supporting this plan; all in all to protect, empower and defend people; a social, open, safe haven europe, united against terror; more industry, support for the real economy, financial and political capacity; boosting the digital single market for energy and transport, victims of the short-termism of many states; democratic values and defending the rights of all, including those of national minorities, that exist. and when, as in catalonia, instead of recognising this reality, it is preferred to stifle it without policy, without dialogue, a european problem is created. the intergroup of minorities in this parliament calls for european mediation in its strasbourg manifesto, democracy so that no one can impose, but also so that no one can prevent a political solution to this problem.
in writing. the european union has not been a major part of our dreams for many years. that project synonymous with rights, development and opportunities became a very different scenario: economic crisis, austerity and inequality. today, those of us who believe in the european project should share this concern and therefore the need to push for change. the social pillar must be a reality and not just an advertisement. we must work to guarantee living wages, reclaim the rights of the working class, guarantee a pension framework and fight child poverty. of course, we must not forget that the european union is a project based on democratic guarantees and that it is therefore essential to ensure respect for the constitutional order and the rule of law in all the member states. there is no time to lose, no excuses, because the challenge is important: that the union should cease to be part of the problem and become the most important part of the solution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is what defines the european union. let nothing and no one change the meaning of the word.
in writing. the european union has not been a major part of our dreams for many years. that project synonymous with rights, development and opportunities became a very different scenario: economic crisis, austerity and inequality. today, those of us who believe in the european project should share this concern and therefore the need to push for change. the social pillar must be a reality and not just an advertisement. we must work to guarantee living wages, reclaim the rights of the working class, guarantee a pension framework and fight child poverty. of course, we must not forget that the european union is a project based on democratic guarantees and that it is therefore essential to ensure respect for the constitutional order and the rule of law in all the member states. there is no time to lose, no excuses, because the challenge is important: that the union should cease to be part of the problem and become the most important part of the solution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is what defines the european union. let nothing and no one change the meaning of the word.
in writing. the european union has not been a major part of our dreams for many years. that project synonymous with rights, development and opportunities became a very different scenario: economic crisis, austerity and inequality. today, those of us who believe in the european project should share this concern and therefore the need to push for change. the social pillar must be a reality and not just an advertisement. we must work to guarantee living wages, reclaim the rights of the working class, guarantee a pension framework and fight child poverty. of course, we must not forget that the european union is a project based on democratic guarantees and that it is therefore essential to ensure respect for the constitutional order and the rule of law in all the member states. there is no time to lose, no excuses, because the challenge is important: that the union should cease to be part of the problem and become the most important part of the solution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is what defines the european union. let nothing and no one change the meaning of the word.
in writing. the european union has not been a major part of our dreams for many years. that project synonymous with rights, development and opportunities became a very different scenario: economic crisis, austerity and inequality. today, those of us who believe in the european project should share this concern and therefore the need to push for change. the social pillar must be a reality and not just an advertisement. we must work to guarantee living wages, reclaim the rights of the working class, guarantee a pension framework and fight child poverty. of course, we must not forget that the european union is a project based on democratic guarantees and that it is therefore essential to ensure respect for the constitutional order and the rule of law in all the member states. there is no time to lose, no excuses, because the challenge is important: that the union should cease to be part of the problem and become the most important part of the solution. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is what defines the european union. let nothing and no one change the meaning of the word.
in writing. mr juncker, you present a future for the union based on the precarization of the working class and the peasantry through competitiveness. the energy union's commitment to benefiting the electricity companies without questioning the need to reduce energy consumption, or the environmental, landscape or health impacts of the population. he talks about deepening the euro, the banking union, the stability pact, without mentioning poverty or the impact on public services of these policies. we need public policies to relocate production and industries; living wages; fair prices for farmers; fair prices for fishermen; fair distribution of the right to produce and fish; free trade agreements to be stopped; agroecological and short-circuit models of food production and marketing; budgets for public health, education and social services, not to militarize the union. you have forgotten about women: do you think that there is nothing more to be done in europe in the field of equal rights and the fight against gender-based violence? europe must make it a priority to take action to end gender-based violence and the inequalities that half of our population suffers from.
the rapporteur. mr president, very quickly, i want to thank my colleagues for the work done to have a report that tries to strengthen, promote and give a more coherent framework to our relations with latin america, in defense of the same values: multilateralism, open societies or human rights; and for sharing an agenda, which is the agenda of the fight against climate change, gender equality or having an inclusive growth that governs globalization.
when some people talk about the need to include agriculture and therefore forest management and land use in the strategy to combat climate change, they are not talking about including it in the global emissions trading. we are talking about the need for a change in our relationship with the environment; for a change in the global food system; for the earth to be seen again as a common good that belongs to all of us and that its care benefits all of us. we are talking about instituting the right to use instead of the right to own. we are talking about something which is far from the subject of this report: the avoidance of measures which market and market the environment.
i voted in favour of this proposal because it sets out a binding commitment for each member state to ensure that accounted emissions from land use are offset by an equivalent removal of co2 from the atmosphere through measures in these sectors. climate change is a transboundary and global problem that cannot be solved by national or local action alone. the paris agreement includes a long-term objective and states that the contribution of land use, land-use change and forestry to achieving long-term climate mitigation objectives will be critical. the european union and the member states are currently required to take account of this sector under the kyoto protocol, which imposes limitations on the european union and each of the member states to ensure that they do not generate additional emissions. in addition, forest management plays a crucial role in the fight against climate change, as all these sectors must contribute to the overall eu emission reduction target.
the arms trade has reached the highest volume since the cold war, which is very bad, but europe is the second largest arms supplier in the world, which should be a shame. we have therefore voted in favour of this report, which calls on the member states to comply with the common position and the arms trade treaty. the sale of arms to countries such as saudi arabia is contrary to human rights and, in the same vein, the resolution of this parliament of 25 february 2016 calls on the commission to impose an embargo on the sale of arms to saudi arabia. but on 13 march, in the port of bilbao, more than 4 000 tonnes of arms were being shipped to saudi arabia, a scene which, tragically, is being repeated all the time. in such an action, the guard corporal of the fire department alleged reasons of conscience to not participate in that operation. now he's facing disciplinary action that could result in disqualification. what this fireman has done is nothing more than to defend human rights, which mr juncker has spoken so much about this morning. that is why it deserves our support and solidarity.
there are many countries in latin america that are experiencing an alarming deterioration of human rights; argentina: we keep asking where santiago maldonado is; mexico: hundreds of journalists killed for denouncing the complicity between the government and drug trafficking; brazil: a coup government that wants to change the constitution to attack the rights of indigenous peoples to their lands. i think of all those people, just as this report only thinks of interfering in venezuela. human rights must be defended throughout latin america, and the european union must demand that they be respected, not take advantage of their absence. when we approve and commit ourselves to fair international trade, among equals, which puts people, peoples and the environment before the interests of transnational corporations, then we will vote in favour.
if someone outside this parliament were to read the report, they might think that corruption is only a problem in the countries of the south; that there is no corruption here; that there is no corruption in europe or that, for example, multinational companies, most of them based in europe, have nothing to do with corruption in the countries of the south. it is obvious, for example, that these multinationals are responsible for 70 per cent of the tax evasion cases in the world. it is obvious, for example, that in my country the prime minister has had to go to court to testify about corruption or that his party is now being sued for illegal funding. i would even like to mention the transnational corruption, that of mr pedro agramunt, who is the president of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and is directly linked to a case of corruption in azerbaijan and money laundering. from here we must demand accountability, understand that corruption is an evil that pervades the international elites and their multinationals and demand the resignation of mr agramunt.
corruption is a drag. it is a drag on the economy, on democracy and on social equity. there can be no disagreement on that. there are some paragraphs in this report which are pure common sense. however, as a spaniard and a member of this parliament, i can only feel ashamed when we try to lecture third countries. the report points to the countries of the south, but it forgets that 70% of tax evasion in the world comes from multinationals, those great friends of the european union's trade policy. i am reminded that there is a commissioner in this parliament who is involved in one of the biggest corruption cases in the world: the panama papers. we are not here to lecture anyone and we should be much less hypocritical.
mr president, commissioner, we have been with the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector for a year. experts from all over europe have been through it and we have been able to know clearly what has happened. at this point we have a clear idea of what has happened and the text of the conclusions also gives us guidelines and solutions to the questions raised. the priority must be to preserve the environment and the health of consumers, but also to establish and promote legislation on less polluting fuels and to restrict the installation of deactivation devices. what we cannot and should not do is demonize diesel vehicles, or ban them immediately, because we have boosted their development to reduce co2 emissions and because they are a very important part of our european production. but, yes, perhaps we should reflect on whether we have gone too far and adopted too soon an environmental legislation which has given rise to these manipulations to enforce it. the european union legislation must of course offer greater protection and redress to consumers in cases like the one we have seen, but it must also be rational and capable of being enforced and, above all, capable of being monitored. the text we are voting on tomorrow clearly points the way forward.
in writing. for the left in southern europe, it is not news that the eu is at the service of large german industry. and what oligopoly is more powerful than the automobile? we saw this in the dieselgate inquiry committee, where it was shown that the commission knew about and allowed the manipulation of nox emissions, even at the expense of the air quality in our cities. and we see it now, when germany allows these diesel cars to continue to circulate without the companies paying the cost of repairing the hardware of the engine that has been tampered with. it's not a volkswagen or a daimler or an audi or a porsche. no company has the right to determine the future of the automobile industry, let alone by violating the legislation in force. it is the greed and short-term thinking of large-scale german industry that is holding back the transition to cleaner and more efficient engines. and if we miss that train, it's the workers who will lose their jobs to imports from other countries. and that will be the end of the automobile industry in europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, and the rapporteurs from the other committees. the commission has been working hard to foster social inclusion in europe and this parliament has been one of our strongest supporters. but we will never achieve our goals as long as everyday life remains as inaccessible as it is today for 80 million europeans with a disability. the solutions exist to make accessibility happen and demand for accessible products and services will only increase as europe’s population is ageing. but the gap between what is possible and what has actually been achieved in reality remains large. the european union is committed to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its obligations on accessibility. we celebrated the convention’s 10th anniversary last year. people with a disability are expecting us to act – now. last year’s adoption of the web accessibility directive constituted an important step forward and i welcome that parliament is now ready to set out its position on the commission proposal for a european accessibility act. the accessibility act aims at using the full potential of our single market to trigger real change in people’s lives. it puts forward a common european approach to accessibility, instead of having 28 national ones. this common approach will maximise opportunities and minimise costs for european businesses and consumers. the experience from the us has shown very well how accessibility policies can be a catalyst for economic growth and inclusion. i welcome the fact that parliament’s report supports the commission’s objective to improve accessibility. it brings a number of useful clarifications, also concerning the relation with existing eu legislation. but i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the commission’s position on some of the main points under debate. first, preservation of the integrity of the internal market. about 95% of eu companies are either microenterprises or smes. many of them have to deal with new accessibility requirements, for instance due to the new ‘buy accessible’ obligations in public procurement legislation. but, they do not have the same resources or capacities to deal with changing regulatory requirements. the commission has therefore introduced strong safeguard clauses and light rules in terms of conformity assessment, in particular for microenterprises. however, a blanket exclusion of microenterprises would not only put at risk the objective of the proposal, it would seriously distort the functioning of the internal market. for instance, a microenterprise might be allowed to import non-accessible products from third countries, such as smartphones, while eu producers have to comply with accessibility requirements. secondly, public procurement and eu funds. we want public money to be invested in accessible products, services and buildings. buying accessible is already a general obligation in the eu public procurement directives, but more is needed to ensure a proper internal market in this area. the accessibility act puts forward a list of functional requirements so that industry knows what to deliver, users know what to expect and public authorities know what to ask for. this brings me to the last point. the accessibility requirements will determine the level of accessibility of our products and services in the internal market for the coming decades. so, indeed, we need to be flexible as technological possibilities are constantly changing. that is why the accessibility act puts forward functional accessibility requirements instead of prescribing the detailed technical solutions to achieve them. but we also need to ensure that our laws are effective and enforceable, and provide legal certainty both for industry and consumers. in light of the still ongoing work in the council, the commission will stand ready to support the co-legislators in clarifying and further detailing the accessibility requirements. we have a chance here to make a real difference, both for citizens and for business. the commission counts on your support.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the european disability strategy 2010-2020 itself, and so many other instruments call for freedom, the rule of law and equality. this was stated by our president juncker today in the debate on the state of the european union. we are, in essence, the defence of freedom, equality and the rule of law. we have the opportunity, with the adoption of this european accessibility act, to show that europe has a soul and to show that europe believes in equality. accessibility is participation; accessibility is equality; accessibility is removing obstacles to free movement; accessibility is supporting the right to the integrity of persons; it is supporting the right to the dignity of persons, the right to education, to work, to free movement and residence. that's why the vote tomorrow is important. we must be more ambitious than the text adopted by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and we must stick to the line proposed by the commission: support the amendments of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on transport and tourism so that all micro and small businesses can also take part. the dignity of the people is at stake, democracy is at stake. human values have to be above economic values.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr løkkegaard, on the foresight and prudence he has shown in this report, and i would like to thank him sincerely for the effort he has made to integrate the proposals. they better balance the needs of people with disabilities and the possibilities for public and private sector responses. the commission is also preparing a proposal to make innovation the best tool for the integration of disability, and is planning to take steps to ensure that this removal of barriers benefits other types of functional diversity, although an exact definition of this term has yet to be finalised. finally, this text is an example of how to resolve problems of legislative collision before they occur and to fill some gaps that are not covered by sectoral and national legislation. that is why i shall be supporting some amendments which seek to solve some of the black holes which need to be solved urgently. for example, to require that renovations and new works in environments and complementary infrastructure of basic services, such as transport, must incorporate accessibility.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank colleagues for this substantial debate. the european accessibility act is a priority file for this year under the joint declaration of the three institutions. indeed, accessibility is one of the eight key pillars of our european disability strategy 2010-20. the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities mentioned it as a priority action in their last concluding observations to the european union. we know that our member states have started to legislate on accessibility independently and in an uncoordinated way. divergence in national rules will make it more difficult for industry to sell products and services across borders. it also does not benefit those citizens who are most in need of accessible products and services. accessibility will be vital to ensure inclusive societies, especially against the background of demographic ageing and the digital transition. the accessibility act will create a better functioning and a more competitive internal market, leading to a wider choice of accessible products and services for consumers, and also at lower prices. it will facilitate the access of persons with disabilities to education, enhance their job opportunities and give them more freedom and opportunities in their everyday choices in life. it is the commission’s firm intention to enhance social fairness in europe. nobody should be left behind. the accessibility act underlines the european union’s commitment to ensure that economic growth and social progress go hand in hand. we look forward to tomorrow’s vote and to continuing the work with you on this important file.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr roberto gualtieri, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 99/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on the european statistical programme 2013-17 by extending it for the period 2018-2020 (com ((2016) 0557 - c8-0367/2016 - 2016/0265 ((cod)) (a8-0158/2017).
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mr gualtieri, the rapporteur, and all those who have worked on this report, and to congratulate the commission on the initial text and also on the interest they have all shown - and the commission first of all - in a very powerful weapon from a social, not just economic, point of view, which is statistics. which are sometimes arduous and have no sex appeal, but which are absolutely fundamental to the future prosperity and the future democratic freedom of our societies. and i want to emphasize that behind the analysis of inequalities, behind the analysis of poverty, behind the analysis of basic needs and whether they are met or not, behind the needs for electricity and the poverty of electricity, and everything you want, there is statistics, and without it there would be no policy. i would therefore like to stress the social aspect and thank the rapporteurs for taking up the alde group's suggestions and then in the tripartite dialogue. these have focused mainly on having powerful information for future treaties and eu enlargement; extending the information available and arriving on time for the crucial european semester; monitoring the stability and growth agenda; highlighting the importance of measuring inequalities; going beyond the commission's policy priorities and strategy 2020; making statistics available 'very important' and public and easily accessible to anyone who needs and wants them; making the extension of the annual statistical programme also an opportunity to strengthen cooperation between national and large, international statistical centres; and finally even considering them as priority issues in the beyond gdp action, to enrich, above all socially, welfare measures, and not just in gdp.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank president gualtieri and the other members for their work. for a job well done. and i want to welcome this proposal to extend the european statistical programme to the period 2018-2020. reliable and relevant evidence based on european statistics is absolutely essential for measuring the progress and evaluating the efficiency of union policies and programmes, especially in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the agenda for jobs, growth, equity and democratic change. european unity faces challenges in many policy areas and the demand for european statistics remains very high. the need for a policy response to the deep economic crisis and its social impact has driven the demand for better economic and social policies based on robust and comparable evidence. the european commission has identified among its ten policy priorities the importance of meeting the growing demand for statistics and the need to make them available much more quickly. the implementation and monitoring of european union policies are based on high-quality, comparable statistical information on the economic, social and environmental situation in the european union and its components at national and regional level. the agreement reached has ensured that three of the fundamental objectives have been met. first, high quality statistical information, ensuring that no statistical gaps are left and focusing on a number of priority areas reflecting the commission's ten policy priorities. second, to be able to respond more rapidly to the statistical needs of the union by adapting the statistical infrastructure to take advantage of the potential of new data sources. and thirdly, to improve the productivity of the european statistical system and to ensure its global prominence. european statistics are also essential for the general public to understand europe and for citizens to participate in the democratic process and the debate on the present and future of the european union. this new system will be able to meet the growing demand for statistics and the need to make them available more quickly, guaranteeing reliable, objective, comparable and coherent european statistics despite what has been said here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. indeed, he is right: any lie can pass a statistic, even his own. i do not, of course, expect anyone who does not believe in the european union to believe in statistics.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report by mr sirpa pietikäinen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 345/2013 on european venture capital funds and regulation (eu) no 346/2013 on european social entrepreneurship funds (com (2016) 461 - c8-0320/2016 - 2016/0221 (cod)) (a8-0120/2017).
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the lead rapporteur on this dossier and, of course, my colleague mr cozzolino as an alternative rapporteur for the work they have done to reach the agreement we are going to vote on tomorrow. we started this legislature with a very severe economic crisis in the union and with projects to boost domestic demand, to improve activity and to facilitate employment. and within that agenda, we had as one of the fundamental axes the drive for the capital markets union. and the truth is that we have done a lot of work in recent years: we have put forward the new regulation on money market funds; the new regulations to facilitate the drawing up of prospectuses; we recently reached agreement in the tripartite dialogues to create a standard securitisation throughout the union and to revise its capital requirements; and the regulation we are debating today and which we are going to vote on will 'i believe' be along the same lines: facilitating, helping to build that internal capital market, making it easier to set up venture capital and social entrepreneurship funds. it is a great proposal on which my group has worked very hard, where we have made clear progress in the supervision and control of esma, in facilitating investment by retailers, in introducing environmental analyses of business projects that help us to meet the objectives of the paris agreement and, i certainly believe that we have been making the right decisions. the point is that, apart from all that we have done, as my colleague papadimoulis said earlier, we still have a lot to do, because small businesses still face considerable challenges in being able to participate in that single market - there are many administrative problems, regulatory problems that we have to tackle - and because, in my view, some of these reforms are aimed at mediumsized companies that are already participating in capital markets. we should think - and i am addressing the commission - how we can really improve financing for small businesses, and not just mediumsized ones.
mr president, commissioner, i come from an outermost region, the canary islands, and that is why i want to take this opportunity to show my support and solidarity with these wonderful islands, which deserve special and immediate support from the european union in the face of the tragedy they are experiencing. the solidarity fund requires too many requirements to be mobilised, which are impossible to meet in regions like this. we have often argued that, as the treaty itself states, these regions must be given special treatment, also and even more so in catastrophic situations such as the one they are experiencing. we must not allow these islands, which are physically far from europe but are tremendously european, to feel unprotected. the european union must respond urgently. europe will be stronger and more credible the more effective its solidarity.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i believe that this plan for the north sea has two advantages. the first is, of course, the multiannual nature, which will make it possible to give fishermen more visibility. it is important that the fishing opportunities for a given stock do not change drastically from one year to the next. the second advantage is that the plan is designed to remedy the problems caused by quota-limited stocks. the demersal stocks, i.e. the stocks of species living on the seabed, are often exploited in mixed fisheries. this means that when the nets are lifted, there may be different species of fish caught: cod, haddock, black spot, whiting, sole, plaice and lobster. for fishermen, the problem is that they have to stop their campaign as soon as they have reached their quota on one species even if they still have quotas on other species. the landing obligation now makes it illegal to discard any catch in excess of a quota. this plan should therefore address this problem by introducing possibilities for trading quotas between member states, but also with third countries. similarly, fishing opportunities will be allocated by bands in order to be more flexible. all these measures therefore converge towards greater flexibility and greater visibility for the benefit of fishermen. that is why we will vote in favour of this plan.
mr president, dear commissioner, i remember well what we approved with the council in 2013: the reform of the cfp, which some people today want to ignore. and when that happens, we politicians lose all credibility in the eyes of society, and operators lack legal certainty, which is a basic requirement for any business. we therefore supported multiannual plans and regionalisation, and we worked with the fishermen to convince them that regionalised measures through multiannual plans would bring them much closer to decision-making. however, when enthusiasm turns to frustration, it is very difficult to rebuild trust. the fishermen are feeling frustrated today, as am i. they expected something else from this plan. they hoped that the ranges within which the council could fix the total allowable catch would be set on sound scientific grounds. that is precisely what the basic regulation states in article 9 (1) of the basic regulation, but ranges have been proposed in this plan without any scientific basis. the fishermen also trusted that the measures would take into account their socioeconomic impact, as provided for in article 9 (4) of the cfp. here again they were deceived. i will not refer to the chances of capture, which have also been deceived in this case. i sincerely hope that these points will be changed tomorrow. i would not want to be associated in any way with a mandate from parliament which would mislead those who have to implement what we have decided here, since the operators themselves would have no motivation to comply with these requirements. (the president agreed to reply to a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. when that happens, we shall see, as we shall see with regard to the united kingdom's access to european markets.
mr president, i believe that the best way to balance the objective of conserving fish stocks in these waters of the north sea and maintaining the activity of our fishing industry is to continue to support these multiannual plans and to align maximum sustainable yield with the parameters of the common fisheries policy. that's why i won't support the rank changes. i welcome the plan's inclusion of recreational fishing, which is an urgent need. i shall vote in favour of the commission's delegated acts to prevent the stocks from being left unprotected by the possible inaction of some member states in the context of the so-called regionalisation of the cfp and, in the same vein, i shall vote in favour of maintaining control measures, which were removed in the commission. and i agree with the precautionary principle when there are not enough studies to determine the state of the stocks and there is a clear risk. i also hope that brexit will not diminish the effectiveness of a plan focused on protecting marine life and the marine environment, a task which is of particular interest to those who live in it.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague ulrike for the good work she has done on this plan, as on any other work she is facing. the introduction of multiannual plans is one of the key instruments in the common fisheries policy for the sustainable management of resources. it is essential to bear in mind that these multiannual plans, both the north sea and the baltic sea, which have already been adopted, set a precedent for future management proposals in the atlantic and the mediterranean. and as we move southwards, fisheries are mixed, that is, species interact more, so it is essential to provide these areas with reasonable management plans in the future. the multiannual plans must also be flexible, and this flexibility must allow us to move within the ranges set by fishing mortality, both to take decisions when stocks are in danger and to implement the necessary corrective measures, and to increase fishing opportunities when stocks are in good condition. it is essential to point out that, through this plan, waters belonging to the united kingdom will be managed, and it is very important to point out here that, despite brexit - that the united kingdom leaves the european union - it is essential to manage fisheries responsibly, because fish do not understand borders, ladies and gentlemen. and i say that to the people across the street, especially.
mr president, commissioner, in my opinion the erasmus programme has done more for the european union than any treaty that has been signed. we should be proud that in the previous legislature, when the union's budget was reduced, we managed in this parliament to increase the budget for erasmus by 40%. the feeling of belonging to the european union has been consolidated among those young people who have been able to enjoy this experience, for many of them the best of their lives. we must also take into account the future possibilities it opens up for our young people. the recent crisis has shown that those with international experience and a better knowledge of languages found employment more easily. however, not all is positive. only 5% of our young people enjoy the program. the funds they receive are not sufficient, so it is out of reach of the less privileged. i very much welcome the inclusion of young people in vocational training, but it is essential to continue to increase resources so that all young people have the same opportunities.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for their contributions and their willingness to engage in dialogue, which have made it possible to produce a very good report. i also congratulate the european external action service and the commission, headed by commissioner malmström, for their excellent work in strengthening relations between the european union and latin america, and particularly with chile, a stable and reliable partner of the union and a necessary partner in the achievement of fairer global governance. i would also like to take this opportunity to greet the ambassador of the republic of chile to the european union, who has had the pleasure and interest of being here with us today. the agreement on bilateral trade in organic products is the first such agreement signed by the european union with a view to contributing to the development and expansion of organic farming. it is based on a strict mutual recognition and certification procedure with high control and safeguards, providing for the creation of a joint committee to monitor its implementation, as well as a unilateral suspension clause in the event of non-compliance. chile recognizes all certified european products, but the european union excludes chilean animal and feed products, as well as unregulated aquaculture. we support this agreement, commissioner, but i ask you to undertake to keep this parliament duly informed on its implementation, and i also ask you to carry out an evaluation before the end of the period of application and, if necessary, every three years thereafter. as regards croatia's accession to the current association agreement, i would just like to point out that it follows the ordinary adjustment procedure following new accession, following the procedure of the world trade organisation. finally, i would like to refer to the most relevant report, the future modernisation of the association agreement with chile. it is true that the current agreement has worked very well since it came into force in 2003. however, it needs to be modernised because it is out of date, because it does not meet the new requirements of trade policy and because both sides have concluded more ambitious agreements with third countries. the framework for trade relations between the european union and chile cannot be left behind. the modernisation of the chile agreement is also a great opportunity to implement a more ambitious trade policy which is conducive to sustainable development. we share the same principles and values. and in this report - which, by the way, was approved by a very large majority in the committee on international trade, the largest majority achieved in a trade agreement in this parliament - what are the recommendations of this parliament? first, we demand more transparency and involvement of parliamentarians and civil society and demand the immediate publication of the negotiating mandate as soon as it takes place. we call for ambitious improvements in market access, but protecting sensitive agricultural and industrial products and putting the defence and welfare of the people first. we call for the right and the capacity of the parties to regulate in the general interest, including, of course, public services, and for this to be explicitly and unequivocally ensured throughout the agreement. we call for a modern investment policy which must take into account both the protection and the obligations of investors; preserve the right of governments to regulate; avoid unfounded litigation and, of course, replace the private arbitration system with a public, transparent, guaranteeing system, which seeks the commitment of the parties to give priority to recourse to the competent courts while progress is being made in the creation of the multilateral investment tribunal. and of course we demand an ambitious chapter on sustainable development with binding, enforceable provisions, subject to dispute resolution mechanisms and considering the imposition of sanctions while promoting corporate social responsibility. we want firm commitments on the fight against tax evasion, against corruption and, of course, we are asking for a specific chapter on smes and on something that i know you are firmly committed to, as is chile, which is that, finally, the european union will sign a trade agreement with a specific gender chapter. i therefore ask all the members of this parliament to support this report by a majority tomorrow and i ask the commission and the council to take these recommendations into account because they are good, they are necessary and because, moreover, it is this parliament which will have to have the last word.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, inmaculada rodríguez piñero, and all the other rapporteurs from the other groups, for their very ambitious work on these three reports which affect our trade relations with chile. chile, together with mexico, is our longest standing preferential partner in latin america. it is a key ally in multilateral fora. we have had an association agreement in place since 2003. it has worked well and has allowed for substantial increase in our bilateral trade, but now that it is 2017, it is more than correct that we address what has happened during these years and that we modernize the agreement. this is why the trade for all communication identified chile as one of the countries with which we should aim to upgrade our trade relations. this initiative is framed by our strategy to promote openness, based on values and standards, and to build bridges with partners across the world and not walls. we have here an opportunity to conclude an agreement of the highest calibre on all issues, including on matters reflecting shared societal values, trade and sustainable development, smes, anticorruption and as the rapporteur pointed out for the first time in an eu agreement provisions on trade and gender, where chile has done a lot of work already. this modernised agreement should allow the development of a more modern and effective working method and contribute to the creation and enhancement of the role of contact networks and peopletopeople links between us and chile. we have done our part in the commission. you have done your part here in parliament. in may, together with the high representative, we adopted in the commission a recommendation to start negotiating and recommended directives to modernise the agreement. these proposed texts are now under discussion in the council, and on our side we are ready to start negotiations as soon as we receive the authorisation and the negotiating directives from the council. in this context, we very much welcome your resolution. it is a highly valuable contribution and will give us a steer during the following negotiations. regarding the croatian accession protocol, this is another example of excellent cooperation and our good relations with chile. chile is one of the few trading partners that applied unilaterally the provisions and benefits of the association agreement to croatia without waiting for the formal adoption of the protocol. we are very grateful for chile's helpful attitude in this process and we look forward to receiving parliament's consent on the accession protocol. finally, regarding the agreement on trade in organic products, by signing this agreement the european union and chile mutually recognise the equivalence of our respective organic production rules and control system in order to ensure a high level of respect for the principles of organic production. this agreement is broad in scope and will allow for products produced and controlled according to eu rules to be directly placed in the chilean market and vice versa. i would again like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on international trade for the excellent work they have done on all three of these files and particularly for the resolution on the modernisation of the agreement. it captures parliament's concerns well and we will carefully bear these in mind during the negotiation process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the current crisis. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague, inmaculada, on her work. i think he has done an excellent job and it is only fair to acknowledge him for that in this debate today. i want to convey the view of the committee on agriculture specifically on the recommendation for a decision on the agreement on trade in organic products. it was approved by a majority in the committee on agriculture, where we are always a little more protectionist with our products, but it was supported by a majority here and i want to convey it as such. it is an agreement which we also see positively, because we are talking about ecological standards and these are the standards we consider to be superior. so that this is specifically included in the first agreement of this kind signed by the european union is a good thing, i think, and that is why it has been very positive in the committee on agriculture. the only thing we would have liked in the committee is that the organic farming regulation, on which we have been working for three and a half years and which is still in the tripartite negotiations, should also have been ready now, but it has not been possible. that has nothing to do with the agreement. and we are pleased that those amendments which call for an initial evaluation to be carried out after the first two years of application have been incorporated. these are good sensitivities for european agricultural production. i think it will be a good agreement and i am conveying this opinion of the committee on agriculture in favour of it finally being adopted tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, you know very well that i am a supporter of trade agreements in general, but i am even more so that the sacrifices which always go with these agreements are shared equally between the different sectors. you have often heard me say that in these agreements the bill is usually paid by the agricultural sector. and that's usually how it is. in any event, i welcome the modernisation of the trade pillar of this agreement, which has led to a significant growth in bilateral trade. we have a privileged trade relationship with chile and that is globally very positive, and it should remain so. as regards the agreement on trade in organic products, i still have some doubts expressed by our farmers. the european union will recognise as equivalent products - and i will not mention bananas on this occasion, as i usually do in defence of the banana from the canary islands - which are produced under different conditions. i am not going to go into environmental conditions, or even social standards, but i am concerned about the possible use of substances that are not allowed in the european union. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. he has made a huge effort to get a majority agreement - i think almost unanimously - and that is very positive. i therefore want to show our firm support for these agreements and to rely, above all, on something which i know the commissioner fully believes in: that the safeguards which are being put in place are really effective.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs rodriguez piñero, on her excellent work. i would like to note with satisfaction, as mr assis has done, that this morning the president of the commission, in his state of the union address, expressed his wish to modernise, update and update the association agreements with mexico and chile and to conclude the agreement with mercosur in the terms set. i know that behind this statement by president juncker is the committed, tenacious and effective work of commissioner malmström. i have the honour of being rapporteur for the political association, economic concertation and cooperation agreement with chile, which is in force, and mr mato was here recalling the excellent results that this agreement has produced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. that is why, mr president, you will always find support in our political group for this country, small perhaps in its size, but large in our hearts and in our affections.
mr president, first of all, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. ladies and gentlemen, the european union and latin america are bound together by diverse and deep ties and also by common values. they are committed to open trade and global governance, and chile is an example of all of that. the association agreement with the country has allowed the development of a major trade relationship which has resulted in a 100% increase in bilateral trade. its future dynamism now also depends on the modernisation of the agreement, which, as i said, dates back 15 years. i would like to stress that in many countries of the european union the export sector has been key to getting out of the crisis. now, with a shrinking population, very limited levels of public spending and weak domestic demand, europeans need to keep turning outwards, and for that i congratulate you, commissioner, on your work of continuing to weave an ever wider trade network. we now have the negotiations with mercosur, also with mexico, and i hope that as soon as the council approves the negotiating mandate which you have prepared in the commission, you can start the negotiations as soon as possible. chile is an important country, a key country, with a very dynamic economy and, above all, a member of that increasingly dynamic pacific alliance.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to end by reiterating my thanks to all the alternative rapporteurs. my opening words and your words show that we have indeed had this will, this capacity for dialogue and consensus. i would also like to thank all the other members who are here participating in this debate and, of course, the commissioner. i have full confidence in the working capacity of your commission, in yours personally and in your dedication, and i believe that we will be able to achieve that agreement which we have been able - i insist - to reach in this report, widely supported by all the political groups. i think we've made a lot of progress. we have all agreed on what we want in the sustainable development chapter. i think we have work to do to agree on what investment policy should be. but i do not want to end without once again appealing to the opportunity offered by this agreement. i was merely looking at the gallery and the fact that the representative of the republic of chile is here participating in this debate shows the ties, the interest and the desire to modernise this agreement. because we want more than just to deepen our trade relations, we want to deepen our role as policy makers for a more just global governance. citizens expect their politicians to be able to respond to their daily problems, and it is our duty to live up to their expectations. and i think that between us, we're gonna be that high. so thank you very much, and i reiterate my gratitude and my willingness to continue working as we have done so far.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, a new interconnection worth €9.5 billion to import more gas, although its demand is falling; 1 200 km of undersea gas pipeline, with a rather serious environmental impact on the environment. but today, it's more about geopolitics than energy. well, behind this project there are many interests: those of gazprom, those of wintershall, ng, shell, and also those of the german and russian elites. and although we voted on the commission's priority report on the security of gas supply on tuesday, i see here today, commissioner, a rather soft position - i would say - with the german government and the gas lobbies, with whom you meet regularly. i thought that when someone opposed the european commission's plans, they were trampled underfoot and punished, as they did with greece. in short, we do not want another gas pipeline in the baltic sea, nor a european commission with a double standard towards the member states.
blue-card question. – i just want to ask my colleague from lithuania, mr petras auštrevičius, if he agrees with the fact that the eu could send an official mission next year to the election of cambodia, as we have been always giving money to this country to improve their political situation.
mr. president, in laos, three people are in jail for criticizing their government on social media over issues such as corruption and deforestation problems in the country, and they face penalties of up to twenty years in prison. but this is not the only case that concerns us. the situation of enforced disappearances in the country is alarming, including those of environmental activists somphone and khantisouk, who are fighting against the multinational agricultural megaprojects in the country. from here we want to demand the halt of the mega project of the don sahong dam, which will endanger the lives of millions of people in the region, violate their basic rights and have a serious impact on the mekong river ecosystem. this is one of countless conflicts in the region fueled by the predation of multinationals over resources and territory. last year, the sad record of murders of environmental activists was broken, with a total of two hundred. the case of berta cáceres was particularly significant. the protection of these people, who are defending our rights and those of the planet, must be one of the priorities of this parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, in myanmar/burma not only is there a huge religious and ethnic persecution against the rohingya community, but we are also witnessing mass evictions of thousands of small farmers and peasants to take over their land. the land law and the new foreign investment law in myanmar/burma are allowing the massive inflow of transnational capital, promoting mining extractivism, timber sales, industrial agriculture for export and water hoarding. the expulsion of the rohingya from their territory is not only responding to a religious or ethnic conflict, but is generating big business. without going any further, the myanmar/burma government recently allocated over a million hectares of this community to agro-industrial projects. the european union cannot be partly responsible for this tragedy. we demand from here that effective action be taken against the harassment and expulsion of these communities, for the defence of the land of the rohingya community and of all workers, including the landless and those displaced by the armed conflict.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i think i am the first spaniard to speak, and i would like all honourable members to be aware that the matter we are talking about is very serious and that we do not have to deal with it in a superficial way. it's not just the images of yesterday that we all wish we hadn't seen. furthermore, at stake is a unilateral declaration of independence against the constitution that has been announced for next thursday and that may break my country in half. i therefore respectfully and seriously ask you to put the majority proposal to the vote, to hold the debate when we have decided to do so and to have a debate, if possible with the commission, and to have only one turn of speakers per group so that the chairmen can speak and the debate is at the highest level. there are things in the european union that cannot be toyed with. we're here to unite. this parliament cannot contribute to division and disintegration.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i welcome the political agreement reached in the tripartite dialogues on the transposition into european union law of the recommendations on management, conservation and control measures applicable in the iccat convention area. i think it is fundamental, although, after listening to some of the previous speeches, one wonders whether it is really worthwhile to continue talking about law, about laws, when some people absolutely ignore them, they transgress them without any problem. in any case, i will not go into the content of the report, but i do want to highlight some very clear messages. first of all, i would naturally like to thank the council, the commission and the shadow rapporteurs who have made this agreement possible. the agreement provides for a level playing field for all operators, both eu and non-eu, operating in the same area. ensuring a level playing field in the same area where european fleets compete with foreign fleets is crucial if we are to have the confidence of fishermen. the eu fleet often applies much stricter measures than those adopted by regional fisheries management organisations. we must convince third countries, through our action in the rdps, to follow the european union's rules in these cases. for example, transhipment at sea, which is prohibited for eu vessels in eu waters. transhipment at sea is one of the main causes of lack of transparency in fisheries worldwide and facilitates iuu fishing. and this is often done by foreign fleets, always the same ones on a global level - and needless to say - with low social or no environmental considerations. it is important to continue to make every effort to export our sustainability standards to third country fleets. the final agreed text calls on the european commission to take all necessary steps to extend the union ban to all waters. it is something that our sector has been asking for many years - and rightly so - and i think we should be grateful for it. the agreed text also stresses the need to pay particular attention to traditional and artisanal fisheries and to provide incentives for eu bluefin tuna and swordfish fishermen using fishing gear and techniques to reduce environmental impact and that this be taken into account when allocating quotas at national level. that was a battle we had with the member states and we negotiated very well then for bluefin tuna, and now that commitment is confirmed. however, i am very concerned that the commission, almost a year after the adoption by iccat of a multiannual recovery plan for mediterranean swordfish - an iconic species whose stocks are in very poor condition - has not sent the european parliament any proposal transposing this plan. and that is the commission's general approach: more delay than would be desirable. i am convinced that the commissioner does not agree with this either and he views this very negatively. in fact, we are going to adopt, we are going to transpose, a number of measures of the iccaa which are now obsolete and outdated. we're talking about measures from ten years ago. these measures were put on the table ten years ago and we are going to adopt these recommendations now: there is no justification for them. this leads to legal uncertainty for operators and to legitimate criticism from interested parties. this situation is legal and, more importantly, politically unacceptable. that is why we have submitted a statement to the final text expressing our concerns. i know, commissioner, that you will accept this gladly, and there must be a commitment from the commission to ensure that these rules are not born dead. today we are approving recommendations that were already exceeded a year ago by a plan for swordfish. i must also say that i am dissatisfied with the latest decision taken by the iccat on the fixing of swordfish quotas in the mediterranean, which does not take into account the fact that the vessels fishing for swordfish are the same as those fishing for bluefin tuna, and that whilst they reduce swordfish quotas, which is probably right, they do not increase those for bluefin tuna, when it has been shown that, after a very well-executed plan, the stock has been fully and absolutely restored. i simply hope that now, commissioner, in the month of november in marrakesh, where there is a new meeting of the iccat, that recovery will be clearly reflected in a very significant increase in quotas and, moreover, in a more equitable distribution and that account will be taken - as i said at the beginning - of small boats, craft boats and boats which are more respectful of the environment. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you again for your willingness to think and to take up the challenge - which i am sure the commissioner will accept - that the implementation of the recommendations should not take ten years: if it is ten months, much better.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i regret that it took ten years to translate into european law these iccat recommendations for atlantic tuna, which is completely out of line with the will and usual diligence of the rapporteur, mr mato, whom i would like to thank for his excellent work. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the conservation of fishery resources. in this way we can create legal uncertainty, such as that affecting swordfish, with a conservation plan that applies to operators but has not yet been transposed into community legislation despite the fact that it is a simple process. at least, thanks to the contributions of the committee on fisheries, we have added to the protection and conservation measures some considerations which better connect them with the criteria of the common fisheries policy for the management of fish stocks. we are thus obliged to apply more transparent criteria when allocating catch quotas between member states. we will also support small-scale fleets because of their lower environmental impact and their decisive contribution to maintaining sustainable economic activity and the possibility of obtaining resources to diversify sources of income in coastal areas. it is also essential to give priority to the use of low-impact selective gear and not to impose additional obligations on european vessels to those of third countries; on the contrary, it is necessary that third country vessels comply with the same requirements as european vessels, for example in the case of transhipment at sea. it is also a step forward to include recreational fishing in the scope. finally, i will not tire of stressing the need for the member states to accept the full application of article 43 (2) and article 43 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which includes fisheries issues in the ordinary legislative procedure and which should encourage a more transparent allocation of quotas. we need long-term management plans, with awards based on known and agreed procedures, which are based on sound scientific data on the state of stocks and on foreseeable quotas in the medium term. this is the best service we can do to the conservation of species and the stability of the income of the fisheries sector.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr mato on the work he has done - i think he has done a very good job - together with the shadow rapporteurs. i think that the transposition is finally adequate. maybe there's some aspect missing, but i think you've done a great job. my compliments. the transposition into union law of those conservation measures is necessary to ensure that vessels comply with the rules of the iccat commission convention. as we all know, we are referring specifically to atlantic tuna. this transposition also ensures that the species covered by this regional organisation are managed responsibly, even if they are outside the area established by the convention. it is important that both community and non-community fishermen operate under the same rules and that the burden of recovery of stocks does not fall on just a few. i know that we are all insisting on this, but as i live in spain and know what is happening in the mediterranean - where sometimes the rules for fishermen in the european union are not the same as those in the neighbouring countries - it is important to insist that all those who operate in an area have the same rules. under this regulation, species as important to the spanish fleet as bluefin tuna and swordfish are regulated. it is essential to ensure that these stocks are managed in a sustainable way, without forgetting the socioeconomic aspect and the coastal stocks that live off this catch. for me, both aspects are very important. the european commission, however, has been... we all say that, but it is true: it is very striking that the implementation of the 28 recommendations has been delayed for nine, almost ten years. a delay which is very difficult to justify and which, in any case, cannot be repeated. now we have the swordfish management plan, which we're waiting for. the importance of these management rules is highlighted, as tuna stocks are currently in very good condition. this is what the scientific reports published on this subject show, and this is great news. this improvement in stocks is due to good practices in the sector and should be translated into an increase in the total allowable catch to reward fishermen for the effort they have made to contribute to their recovery. in three years, the total allowable catches of bluefin tuna have increased by 60%. the iccat, which can regularly review its recommendations and put new measures into effect, must take into account the future of certain fleets: the swordfish fleet along the whole coast of spain - and i would especially like to mention the carboneras fleet in almeria, which is suffering from both swordfish and bluefin tuna cuts. i would like to conclude by saying that we must stop talking about the recovery of bluefin tuna and start talking about the management plan.
madam president, i would say to the speaker who has preceded me in the use of the floor that the spanish government is complying with international law, with the united nations resolutions, with the european treaties and with the spanish constitution. what happens is that this gentleman does not respect the truth, not even the slightest truth. that said, let us now move on to the serious issues and not the circus issues. on the serious issues, i like this transposition because it is faithful to the latest iccat resolution. the only thing i regret is that transpositions are sometimes so late: it has taken almost ten years, and the measures concerning swordfish, a species subject to a recovery plan, i think approved in 2016, are not updated. finally, we have had to make this statement annexed to the resolution adopted by parliament's committee on fisheries which highlights these discrepancies, and i would like to see it taken into account for future transpositions. i would also like to make one more request: that the need to increase the quota for bluefin tuna now be taken into account, in order to compensate for the restrictions imposed on swordfish. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
if that's a question and not an insult.
the answer is 'blue card'. mr coburn, among the things to be learned is that the british constitution, which is an unwritten text, is different from the spanish constitution. the scottish case cannot therefore be compared with the catalan case, because the constitutions are different. i repeat: the spanish constitution clearly states that the spanish nation is indissoluble 'unique and indissoluble' in article 2. it has nothing to do with the british text, which doesn't even exist. therefore, you cannot mix things that are totally and absolutely different.
madam president, i would also like to remind mr coburn in ten seconds that we have seen many times footage of the british police when they have had to go and repel demonstrations, because they represent law and order - the british police, like the spanish police - we have also seen how they have done it in the united kingdom, and there are few lessons mr coburn can give to the kingdom of spain. madam president, let me first of all congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague mr gabriel mato, because this report on the management, conservation and control measures applicable in the iccat convention area is a complex, laborious and much awaited report for the fisheries sector, as it sets out the management and control measures to achieve the conservation of atlantic tuna. i must remind you - as has been said here too - that unfortunately the european commission has not yet sent any plan on this matter; and it has been a decade since the parliamentary petitions and the petitions on this matter from the workers in the sector - the fishermen - who are the ones who suffer directly from this apathy that is taking place. this is also coupled with the fact that, unfortunately, tuna quotas have not been increased, when there are technical and biological data that it can be done. we therefore demand that the commission respond favourably to mr mato's demands.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all those who participated in the debate. it has shown a very broad criticism of the delay but broad support for the approval of this proposal and i am very happy that the negotiations have concluded. many have stressed the issue of the delayed transposition, which i fully understand. i have already commented on the delay in my introductory remarks. i stress again that the european union has been complying with its international obligations all along, in spite of the delay in transposition. the eu was never in breach of any law. the adoption of this proposal will also contribute to reducing such delays in the future. this is a milestone that will contribute to a quicker procedure to transpose international obligations, acquired by the union under regional fisheries management organisations (rfmo), into eu law in a timely manner. i want to stress the fact that the eu fishing industry was never exempt from any measure of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the european union is a contracting party to iccat since 1997; as such the eu is under international obligation to ensure that the provisions of the iccat recommendations are effectively complied with, but pursuant to article 216(2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) this international obligation also lies with member states. they are bound to comply with the provisions of rfmos and take necessary measures to this end, even in the absence of transposition of the said measures into eu law. in fact, the commission was continuously monitoring to ensure that all member states were adhering to iccat obligations and measures. with regards to the use of data, i can assure you all that we are not using ten year old data as was said. i want to assure everyone that all fishing opportunities are evaluated by scientists on the latest data given by all contracting parties. one comment regarding mr marias’ question on what support could be given to fishermen affected by an oil spin – i will take note of this and will revert directly to you to see whether support measures are available under the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). with regards to this regulation, the commission sees it as an inspiration for future transpositions. it was led by the principle of fair and strict transpositions and it allows for quick implementation of new iccat recommendations. as i said, the proposal transposing the management plan for swordfish is expected to reach you during the next months. the issue of quota distribution, which was raised by some meps, is not part of this regulation. this has been discussed extensively with members states both before the iccat meeting and also after. we have found a good solution. madam president, i would like to thank again mr mato and madam renata briano for their support and the debate. i am looking forward to a very positive vote in the future.
the rapporteur. madam president, it is only when i listen to mr coburn that i see something positive in brexit. you know what it is? that he will never be in this parliament again. when we talk about freedom and democracy, we cannot talk about them if we do not talk about freedom, about respect for the law and for the courts. thank you to everyone, everyone who has intervened, even those who have said they would not support this project. in any case, what i want to say, commissioner, is that i accept your commitment to work on the line of going faster. it's obvious, it's necessary. we're talking about the swordfish plan now. he said he'll be here before the end of the year. it's been a year and a half, a long year for him to be here. but, anyway, it's not the nine years we're talking about, and i thank you for that. it's true that you say there's a false perception, that you've fulfilled... man, what we don't know is the consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and don't take the statement, don't take it as just a criticism - which it clearly is. you must take it as an incentive, as a warning and as an invitation so that this does not happen again. mrs hazekamp said, with regard to the tuna recovery plan, that we could not ask for any more quotas. man, the recovery plan has been a total and utter success. and he told me not to be ashamed of having more ambition. no, i'm not at all ashamed of having more ambition. the problem is that i do not know whether our ambitions are in line with this, because it is important to impose strict measures when necessary - and this has been done - but it is equally important to reward the fishermen for their efforts, and this must be done. the commissioner said that the reason we are talking about today is not the increase in tuna quotas. but we cannot tell the fishermen that we are talking about the icca, that we are talking about recommendations and that we are talking about swordfish plans, in which quotas are imposed, and, at the same time, we do not tell them: 'you have made an effort, you have managed to recover the stocks of this and, therefore, we are going to increase your quotas'. that's all i have to say, chairman. that's all, chief.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on this report and as the rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs i would like to say that i am very pleased, especially in some respects, with the recognition that the structural barriers to women's economic empowerment are rooted in many forms of inequality and discrimination which overlap and therefore the responses have to be comprehensive. i want to talk about the need to change and to boost the care sector, a sector occupied mainly by women. there are reports from the international trade union conference which suggest that by investing 2% of gross domestic product, in many european countries, employment in this sector could be increased by between 2% and 6%, while at the same time dignifying it, improving quality and combating precariousness. it is therefore necessary to propose equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity leave, which redistribute care equally between men and women, and a number of measures... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank anna hedh, the rapporteur of this report. women’s equal participation in the labour market and in economic decision-making are preconditions for women’s empowerment. the commission’s strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019 identifies five priority areas for action. 1: increasing female labour market participation and the equal economic independence of women and men; 2: reducing the gender pay earnings and pension gaps and thus fighting poverty among women; 3: promoting equality between women and men in decision-making; 4: combating gender-based violence and protecting and supporting victims; and 5: promoting gender equality and women’s rights across the world. in this context, let us focus on two important aspects. first, closing the gender employment gap. women remain significantly under-represented in the labour market. in 2016, women’s employment rate was still more than 10 points lower than men’s employment rate. if you look at the full-time equivalent employment rate, the gap reaches 18 points. this gap is not related to professional qualifications or academic achievement, where women more and more out-perform men. it is first and foremost related to the way women and men share caring responsibilities in our society. the commission has developed an extensive package of measures contributing to the economic empowerment of women. the main objective of our proposal for a directive on work-life balance of working parents and carers is to address women’s under-representation in the labour market. the proposed directive aims at modernising the current eu legal and policy frameworks for family-related leave and flexible working arrangements. the proposed directive is complemented with non-legislative measures with the objective to promote the development of formal care services; the enforcement of the rules with regard to dismissal; protection for pregnant women; and removing economic disincentives for second earners to work. we are also developing the relevant indicators in order to be able to measure progress in all these areas. the second aspect to focus on when it comes to the economic empowerment of women is closing the gender pay gap. the gender pay gap has been decreasing only slowly and seems to have stabilised at 16% over the last years as a result of pervasive segregation on the labour market, persistent stereotypes fuelled by inadequate work-life balance policies, and discrimination, all of this combined with a lack of transparency. the effective application of the existing legal framework on equal pay remains a challenge in all member states. the commission constantly monitors whether eu law on equal pay is applied correctly and supports member states and other stakeholders in the proper enforcement of the existing rules. we are now finalising – and intend to propose – an action plan to tackle the gender pay gap from all possible angles. it will aim, in particular, at improving the application of the equal-pay principle, combating segregation in occupations and sectors, combating vertical segregation, and recognising women’s skills, efforts and responsibilities.
in writing. although the eu is a world leader in women's rights and gender equality, we have not yet achieved full equality in terms of women's participation in the labour market, wages and pensions, political and economic representation, etc. the eu needs to take concrete action to boost women's empowerment as soon as possible, because only when we achieve economic independence for all women can we achieve gender equality. there is a need to improve work-life balance, achieve a more balanced distribution of unpaid work between men and women, improve wage transparency and wage mapping through binding provisions to achieve equal pay for equal work of equal value, require companies to negotiate gender equality plans to strengthen equal opportunities and combat discrimination, ensure equal representation on collective bargaining teams, increase women's participation in decision-making, promote the use of gender quotas and cremation lists in policy-making and eradicate gender-based violence.
in writing. although the eu is a world leader in women's rights and gender equality, we have not yet achieved full equality in terms of women's participation in the labour market, wages and pensions, political and economic representation, etc. the eu needs to take concrete action to boost women's empowerment as soon as possible, because only when we achieve economic independence for all women can we achieve gender equality. there is a need to improve work-life balance, achieve a more balanced distribution of unpaid work between men and women, improve wage transparency and wage mapping through binding provisions to achieve equal pay for equal work of equal value, require companies to negotiate gender equality plans to strengthen equal opportunities and combat discrimination, ensure equal representation on collective bargaining teams, increase women's participation in decision-making, promote the use of gender quotas and cremation lists in policy-making and eradicate gender-based violence.
in writing. although the eu is a world leader in women's rights and gender equality, we have not yet achieved full equality in terms of women's participation in the labour market, wages and pensions, political and economic representation, etc. the eu needs to take concrete action to boost women's empowerment as soon as possible, because only when we achieve economic independence for all women can we achieve gender equality. there is a need to improve work-life balance, achieve a more balanced distribution of unpaid work between men and women, improve wage transparency and wage mapping through binding provisions to achieve equal pay for equal work of equal value, require companies to negotiate gender equality plans to strengthen equal opportunities and combat discrimination, ensure equal representation on collective bargaining teams, increase women's participation in decision-making, promote the use of gender quotas and cremation lists in policy-making and eradicate gender-based violence.
in writing. although the eu is a world leader in women's rights and gender equality, we have not yet achieved full equality in terms of women's participation in the labour market, wages and pensions, political and economic representation, etc. the eu needs to take concrete action to boost women's empowerment as soon as possible, because only when we achieve economic independence for all women can we achieve gender equality. there is a need to improve work-life balance, achieve a more balanced distribution of unpaid work between men and women, improve wage transparency and wage mapping through binding provisions to achieve equal pay for equal work of equal value, require companies to negotiate gender equality plans to strengthen equal opportunities and combat discrimination, ensure equal representation on collective bargaining teams, increase women's participation in decision-making, promote the use of gender quotas and cremation lists in policy-making and eradicate gender-based violence.
the rapporteur. madam president, this is an own-initiative report of great importance for civil society in developing countries and also for the european institutions. before i go into the main points of this report, i would like to stress the unanimous position that all the political groups have taken on the situation of civil society in developing countries. i have also seen the importance of working together and of consensus in order to achieve a good result, and thanks to that good will, because of the importance of this report, we were able to adopt it with 22 votes in favour, one abstention and one vote against. it is a very timely and relevant report, reflecting the reality of civil society in many developing countries that receive aid from the european union. i have had the opportunity to meet the ngos working on the ground, to hear the problems and difficulties they face. i have also had the opportunity to meet with representatives of the european commission and the european external action service and they have also allowed me to see another perspective of the challenges that need to be addressed in the european union in order to help the most disadvantaged. we all agree that human rights, the rule of law and democracy must be respected. civil society in developing countries is so weak that it needs all of our action and attention. i have seen the difficulties faced by workers, journalists and human rights defenders, situations which are unacceptable and which often lead to their death. there are also very desperate situations in countries in conflict. i am thinking of africa, where the cooperatives and civil society suffer daily from the scourge of terrorism. throughout this text, i have tried to underline the value of civil society in preserving a more democratic, dignified and just society, by working positively with both the public and private sectors. the report also stresses the importance of recognising the european union's action, since it defends and strengthens the role of civil society in development cooperation. the initiatives could be grouped into two parts. the first is political support, where various measures are proposed, such as regular meetings with members of civil society in the framework of official visits. 'when members go on delegation, i personally have the presidency, to a country, i always reserve a space to attend to all ngos'. also regularly include this issue in the agenda of the foreign affairs councils. the commission also proposes to promote policy coherence in the areas of human rights, development, justice and security. the creation of a monitoring and early warning mechanism in relation to the shrinking space in civil society. the second initiative concerns financial support. it is recalled that the european union is the main donor of aid to civil society organisations in developing countries, but we call for increased funding for dedicated instruments such as the european instrument for human rights and the instrument for development cooperation. the need for greater synergies between all instruments is also stressed, with a call for country-by-country monitoring of all civil society support activities funded by the european union. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again to this house the unity of opinion in the work carried out in committee. certainly some of the parts do not meet the expectations of those who have worked on it, but i believe that in the dialogue that has been held common sense and willingness to do a good job have prevailed. that is why i ask for the support of this house, because i believe that we must send an important message, loud and clear, to this civil society which is threatened in many countries of the world.
in writing. – restrictions on civil society have become increasingly repressive. to counterbalance this fact the report brings forward positive proposals to guarantee the role ngos play in fostering democracy and the well-being of citizens worldwide. however, in order not to jeopardise the development of free and diverse civil societies, and in line with policy coherence for development, we believe it is fundamental for the eu to establish legal human rights obligations for business. in addition, we believe in free and independent civil societies, but deplore the strong reference the report makes to religion or faith-based movements. we will therefore abstain from supporting this resolution.
madam president, i want to express my solidarity with all those who were injured yesterday in catalonia during a disproportionate and violent police action. it only served to violate fundamental rights and to disrupt coexistence, against express court orders to the contrary. i hope that this will be the last chapter in a mistaken strategy of denying reality and trying to suppress by means of sentences a political problem to which the european union should contribute as an agent of coexistence. spain proclaims itself a united nation but is, in reality, a union of nations. the majority of the citizens of catalonia and the basque country want this reality to be recognised and accepted on the basis of mutual respect, dialogue, negotiation, agreement and ratification: a legal and agreed referendum. i regret that the most powerful party, which also breaks laws, does not trust what it offers to add to the basques and catalans. violence, abuse of power, verbal escalation or the electoral use of these conflicts to end them are not a seductive project. they create breakdowns in coexistence which no responsible politician should allow or encourage.
mr. president, kicks in the head, beatings, rubber balls, broken fingers and even a sexual assault complaint. remember, these people just wanted to vote. the european institutions are silent on this. a complicit silence. after this, who can guarantee that the strike called for tuesday will not repeat this police brutality? on sunday, millions of catalans gave a lesson, they responded to repression with democracy. we can debate whether we want, like the popular party and the socialist party, for catalonia to remain under the spanish monarchy or whether we oust 'the bourbons' and build a federal republic together or whether we bet on independence, but it is the catalans who decide on their future. the right of peoples to self-determination in the face of violent imposition.
madam president, as you know, spain is the world's leading exporter of table olives, with 80% coming from andalusia, seville, jaén and cordoba, and a turnover of over 350 million euros a year. they know that the us food industry has filed complaints with the world trade organisation for allegedly low price anti-dumping proceedings for cap aid, which the european commission knows is not true. that is not true, because he knows that the cap is perfectly in line with the rules of the world trade organization. i therefore ask the commission to open a dialogue with the us administration and to make an explicit statement and adopt concrete measures to provide the legal certainty that the agri-food sector of table olives, which is so important in my region and in the whole of spain, needs at the moment.
mr president, after listening to mr farage, i leave the speech on the table because i have to answer him, even though he is leaving. my country cannot accept lessons in democracy from someone who i do not consider to be a democrat; and the proof that he is not a democrat is that he does not even listen to what i have to answer him. mr farage makes me happy about brexit, because brexit will drive the far right out of this house. the only good thing about brexit is that we'll never have to listen to mr farage. if he wanted to do a favour to the catalan independence campaigners, he has done the exact opposite, because i am convinced that those who are illegally attempting independence for catalonia the last thing they expected was the support of the extreme, extreme, european right, which, in the end, shows us all what is really happening in catalonia and what the government of spain is really facing. they had a chance to talk about britain and brexit and they let it slip. they prefer to talk about spain than britain because of your country, other than shouting, you have nothing to say. and i will tell you - speaking specifically of britain - that my group in this parliament is concerned, like mr verhofstadt, about northern ireland, and very concerned about northern ireland, because it is a unique problem that requires a unique solution and that is going to require the best of us. ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what mr farage and some of the catalan independence campaigners are saying today, spain is a consolidated democracy, a loyal partner and a good friend of the whole of the european union, which needs the support of everyone. and the only ones who don't need it there, because i don't contribute anything, is the far right, no matter how much they want to join the party. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, during these months of negotiations we have seen different positions, more or less hard, but what we have not seen is no progress. we are talking about european unity, about enterprises, about citizens' rights, but during this whole period nothing has been said, absolutely nothing, about workers, the great forgotten ones of brexit. i will take the example of the more than 12 000 spanish frontier workers, who make up 27% of the workforce in gibraltar and whose jobs are in danger because of the lack of concrete information on their future status. there is a social and economic interdependence in the area which is going to be altered, altered, of course, for the worse, because nothing is said in the negotiations about how to protect jobs and the conditions of workers. all attempts to have the most profitable brexit serve the economic interests of companies and markets and, once again, it is workers who are threatened and left behind, being the last priority at the negotiating table.
madam president, this morning we heard mr farage's ardent support for catalan nationalism, and i think that this is a deadly torpedo for the cause of catalan independence, because there can be no worse friend, no worse support in europe and the world for nationalism than mr farage, than the far right. ladies and gentlemen, europe was built to overcome the wars between our countries; europe was built to overcome nationalisms, and brexit, as we are seeing today in this negotiation, is the expression of an old nationalism, it is the pretence of an anachronistic independence. we are seeing it today in a negotiation that is going to require a very long transition - as mrs may has asked for - a transition that we have to negotiate again. ladies and gentlemen, independence referendums are the devil's work: they are a ship full of civic problems; they are a ship that sails nowhere, most of the time. the flag of nationalism is independence, it is sovereignty. but sovereignty today is europe: a stronger, more united and more democratic europe, as juncker and macron say.
madam president, it is now 16 months since the british people decided to leave the union. the people who ran the outing dreamed of a cherry-picking strategy: picking cherries that they liked. they dreamed that on the other side, in the european union, there would be division and conflicting interests, but the reality today is that where there is confusion and division is on the british side and here we have been able to keep the union around the negotiating process. the resolution of this parliament underlines the support of this house for mr barnier's negotiating strategy. i join those who were surprised to see this morning how the leader of ukip and the leader of the national front group enthusiastically supported catalonia's independence strategy. i would just like to remind you that these are two parties, two supremacist movements, whose fundamental objectives include getting their countries out of the european union, the union that the other 27 want to maintain and strengthen.
madam president, neither this european parliament nor the citizens of the 27 member states voted for brexit: it was a slim majority of british citizens who did so; and only then does the negotiating team led by mr barnier, with the support of this european parliament get underway to ensure the rights of european citizens, the integrity of the four freedoms as interpreted by the case law of the court of justice and fairness in the sharing of costs. this is the position of the european union. but on the british side we only see confusion; and we have seen deportations; and we have seen the social, generational and territorial division, the fracturing of british society itself. that is the result of a referendum in which reactionary nationalism and populist demagogy, fuelled by the extreme right, whose infamous speeches we have endured once again in this house, have won their day. and these are the ghosts against which the european union was born; these are the enemies which the european union faces and which it is our duty to defeat. and we're going to make sure that we do.
madam president, these negotiations certify that neither the brexiteers nor the uk government ever believed that the british people had decided to leave the european union. now we have to assume the decided and improvisation and melancholy appear. the first thing to do is to continue to negotiate the terms of divorce quickly, including the cost of the bill, to give priority to the debate on citizens' rights and to safeguard the european union's peace work in northern ireland. in short, to show the best of the union; to establish the best possible coexistence separately in the future; and, who knows, to offer arguments for returning to life together. a whole lesson in what the union and its values bring to the right to decide. it clarifies for those who are leaving the real scope of their decision; it forces those of us who remain to insist on what unites us: an area of rights, freedoms and prosperity; a voluntary union, built from below, the real sum of all our diversity, capable of representing us as a global agent, which we would never think of imposing by default, because it convinces. and in such a scenario, our future - as juncker has said - is the union, not brexit.
in writing. eu and uk negotiators have not made sufficient progress in the key areas needed to start discussions on the future bilateral relationship. we welcome the clarifications made by british prime minister theresa may in her recent speech in florence, but we continue to call for concrete proposals to: fully guarantee the rights currently enjoyed by the 4.5 million eu and uk citizens, respect the financial commitments made by the uk to the eu, and resolve the border issue between ireland and northern ireland, in line with the good friday agreement. in addition, in order to conclude the first phase of negotiations, it is necessary to ensure that community legislation is respected until the united kingdom's official withdrawal from the union. the vote in this plenary session confirms the unity of parliament with the other community institutions.
in writing. eu and uk negotiators have not made sufficient progress in the key areas needed to start discussions on the future bilateral relationship. we welcome the clarifications made by british prime minister theresa may in her recent speech in florence, but we continue to call for concrete proposals to: fully guarantee the rights currently enjoyed by the 4.5 million eu and uk citizens, respect the financial commitments made by the uk to the eu, and resolve the border issue between ireland and northern ireland, in line with the good friday agreement. in addition, in order to conclude the first phase of negotiations, it is necessary to ensure that community legislation is respected until the united kingdom's official withdrawal from the union. the vote in this plenary session confirms the unity of parliament with the other community institutions.
madam president, the people who have suffered the most from the ineffectiveness of the commission and the member states in implementing the iccat convention are the artisanal fishermen who have traditionally been the main economic engine of coastal communities. in spain, article 17 of the common fisheries policy is not being complied with because the popular party is using the quota as a political weapon to confront fishermen, the territories and, moreover, to take away their right to the sea. the popular party leaves most of the bluefin tuna quota to large factories belonging to the balfegó and ricardo fuentes group and then they fill their mouths with patriotic stuff. the country is defending the bread of the artisanal fishermen. we have said it many times: we will support everything that has to do with improving the lives of people who fight every day against the waves to support their families. we hope that this report will not remain on wet paper and that the commission will punish and prosecute those who legislate in favour of the big corporations while impoverishing our people and destroying our common good.
madam president, i am glad that this report tackles key issues for feminism, such as the economics of care and sex education. i regret that it has not been translated into decisive sanctions against the rape culture, which is spreading dangerously through the media and is linked to the objectification of women's bodies and, therefore, to the commodification of life. the care economy is not a fancy phrase: it's about a new way of producing, of understanding ourselves, of establishing the rules that govern our societies, where not only profit counts. nowadays, unfortunately, even our bellies are becoming commodities. solidarity between us, the women of the world, is more necessary than ever; also with our muslim sisters, who, unfortunately, have been forgotten by this report, although they live with us, door to door, in europe and deserve all the respect and recognition in the world.
madam president, as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to express my satisfaction with some of the elements of this report, such as the recognition that the structural barriers to women's economic empowerment are rooted in multiple forms of inequality and discrimination. to overcome these barriers, the responses have to be comprehensive. it is necessary to combat segregation in the labour market, but also in education, training and care work. we must reduce the precariousness of women workers in the so-called feminized sectors, such as domestic and care work. and we also need nursery schools and care services for dependent people, which are public, accessible, sufficient and of quality. we must fight direct and indirect discrimination in the labour market, ensure equal pay for equal work, combat atypical and precarious forms of employment contracts, which affect women in particular, and ensure redistribution of care, for example through equal and non-transferable paternity and maternity leave.
madam president, as regards the voting on these kinds of reports, the truth is that they are increasingly empty of content, but full of political hypocrisy, and that is what makes one feel a little absurd in this parliament. when we promote international trade between equals, which puts people and the environment before the profits of transnational corporations, and when there are binding clauses in this regard, then we are doing something for civil society in developing countries. in the meantime, i would like to ask my spanish counterpart jiménez becerril, rapporteur for this report, to be concerned about spanish civil society, a civil society which his party, the partido popular, is repressing and opposing. day 1 was catalonia and today is murcia. it is spanish civil society as a whole that is repressed and that suffers violence worthy of past times. they are turning the spanish government into a great embarrassment in the eyes of the whole world and of all the people who in spain are still on the side of democracy and freedom.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet been consulted on the subject of equal opportunities. that is why i think that bringing this debate here today is important and essential. i have an eight-year-old niece: she plays, she goes to school, she's a happy, independent girl, and she's a girl who's living her age. and i shouldn't say this, but she's a lucky girl to be born where she was born, because she was born in a country, in a family where gender equality is an essential issue. we cannot allow from this side of history that there are girls who are not given that opportunity to enjoy their childhood because they are forced into marriage, into these marriages that we are talking about today. there are figures that put us on the table as a stark reality: in developing countries, one in three girls is married before the age of eighteen and one in nine before the age of fifteen. the european union's cooperation and development policy towards these developing countries must have a gender perspective at its core and be able to ensure that girls born in other countries have the same opportunities and the same rights as european girls.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner jourová, child marriage is a global problem that occurs in different countries, cultures, religions and ethnicities. it denies girls their right to health, education, to live in safety and to choose whom to marry and, if so, when and how. without economic independence, girls drop out of school and are trapped, along with their families and communities, in a cycle of poverty. in more than 20 countries around the world, a girl is more likely to cross the threshold of her marital bedroom than that of her high school classroom. to combat the phenomenon of girl brides, we need a holistic and comprehensive approach, tailored to local contexts and the particularities of each community. we need real coordination across sectors, including education, health, justice and economic development. ending child marriage requires significant and well-targeted investment in the most affected countries, both from international donors and governments. we must also cut development aid to those countries which refuse to limit the minimum age of marriage to 18. but we should not forget what is happening in europe because of the lack of legal harmonization: in spain, in my country, the minimum age for marriage is still 16. but the most important thing is empowering girls. we need to work directly with them so that they can acquire skills and knowledge, so that they can see the choices they have with real cases, so that they can understand and exercise their rights and build their authentic support networks. these reforms would be simple and effective and would demonstrate that the european union is not just talking about values, but actually reinforcing them all over the world.
mr president, forced marriages of underage women, both inside and outside the union, are one of the most lacerating expressions of patriarchal societies, and we must tackle them with comprehensive and coordinated strategies where gender policy is included across the board. to this end, the european union should include specific measures to combat such practices in its cooperation agreements. but at the same time, we cannot fall into simplicity: we cannot talk about women's empowerment when we are fuelling conflict through a foreign policy shaped by our own economic interests. if, for example, countries in the third world are destabilized in order to obtain cheap raw materials, it is difficult to guarantee peace and social and economic development that will help to break down the barriers to equality. we therefore insist that development policy must be coherent and adequately funded, while at the same time promoting a foreign policy of peace.
in writing. every child has the right to a happy childhood. it is intolerable that in the 21st century, minors, especially girls, are still forced into marriage with people, in most cases much older men, who do not respect their childhood, their innocence, and force them to make a brutal leap into adulthood, rape them, get them pregnant and many die because their bodies are not yet ready. in developing countries, one in three girls is married before the age of eighteen and one in nine before the age of fifteen. child marriage affects both girls and boys, but girls are more at risk, accounting for 82% of married children. this problem also affects europe. child, early and forced marriage is a violation of the rights of children recognised in the eu treaties. the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 sustainable development agenda to fight child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of children's rights.
in writing. every child has the right to a happy childhood. it is intolerable that in the 21st century, minors, especially girls, are still forced into marriage with people, in most cases much older men, who do not respect their childhood, their innocence, and force them to make a brutal leap into adulthood, rape them, get them pregnant and many die because their bodies are not yet ready. in developing countries, one in three girls is married before the age of eighteen, and one in nine before the age of fifteen. child marriage affects both girls and boys, but girls are more at risk, accounting for 82% of married children. this problem also affects europe. child, early and forced marriage is a violation of the rights of children recognised in the eu treaties. the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 sustainable development agenda to fight child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of children's rights.
in writing. i would like to welcome this parliamentary question as it gives impetus to european initiatives aimed at eradicating child marriages and ensuring universal rights for children. at the same time, i would like to point out that this complex issue cannot be dealt with effectively without taking into account various cultural, economic and political factors. for example, according to the non-governmental association child not brides, seven out of ten countries with the highest rates of child marriage are considered fragile states. at the same time, humanitarian crises, conflicts and environmental disasters are known to exacerbate conditions of poverty and insecurity that favour child marriage, which is also reflected in the migration crises, including the one affecting europe in recent years. all these factors must be taken into account when addressing an effective strategy that goes beyond reassuring statements. finally, i would like to welcome the decision to explicitly mention children (not just girls) in the question, which shows a genuine commitment to gender equality.
in writing. every child has the right to a happy childhood. it is intolerable that in the 21st century, minors, especially girls, are still forced into marriage with people, in most cases much older men, who do not respect their childhood, their innocence, and force them to make a brutal leap into adulthood, rape them, get them pregnant and many die because their bodies are not yet ready. in developing countries, one in three girls is married before the age of eighteen and one in nine before the age of fifteen. child marriage affects both girls and boys, but girls are more at risk, accounting for 82% of married children. this problem also affects europe. child, early and forced marriage is a violation of the rights of children recognised in the eu treaties. the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 sustainable development agenda to fight child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of children's rights.
in writing. every child has the right to a happy childhood. it is intolerable that in the 21st century, minors, especially girls, are still forced into marriage with much older men who do not respect their childhood and force them to make a brutal leap into adulthood, rape them, impregnate them and many die because their bodies are not yet ready. in developing countries, one in three girls is married before the age of eighteen and one in nine before the age of fifteen. child marriage affects both girls and boys, but girls are more at risk, accounting for 82% of married children. this problem also affects europe. forced child marriage is a violation of the rights of children recognised in the eu treaties. the eu must deliver on the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development to combat child marriage, cooperate with un women, unicef and unfpa and design cooperation and development policies that include the defence of the rights of children.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, egypt, because of its size, its strategic location, its influence in the region and in the arab world, its membership of the united nations security council, is called upon to be a leading partner of the european union, both in its bilateral agenda and in the face of global problems. the association council meeting took place in july and we believe that this is good news. he was suspended for seven years. we understand that in seven years a lot has happened in the middle east, in europe and in the world. that is why we must adapt our cooperation agenda to the new threat configuration, contribute to the stabilisation of the region - obviously, this cannot be achieved until there is progress on the syrian problem - overcome the differences in the gulf cooperation council and, of course, fight terrorism. it is clear that cooperation in the field of energy security and efficiency and the fight against climate change, both of which are the responsibilities of commissioner arias cañete, are also very important. the importance of the new cooperation, the aid from the european union, which must be in the context of the revised neighbourhood policy, has been underlined here, and we must also make progress in the areas proposed to us by the european external action service: economic and social development and modernisation, trade and investment and, of course, not least and therefore of least importance, in the area of respect for human rights. i would like to recall what happened when the muslim brotherhood came to power through democratic means and i would like to remind you, mr president, that in the face of some insinuations, i resigned as head of the observation mission for the last presidential elections in egypt.
mr president, the high representative, mrs mogherini, has defined egypt as a key partner for our common foreign policy, and my group shares her view: the scenarios that are open in the region are so many and so serious that collaboration, cooperation with egypt appears to be an imperative for the cause of peace and stability. it is true that this partnership cannot be established at any price. i share many of the objectives of this association agreement and, to put them in reverse, i shall start with human rights. egypt has to change course: it cannot go forward with prisons full of opponents, harshly repressing civil society. the european union cannot allow this. on the security front, egypt must continue to tackle more effectively the support for terrorism, the financial support for terrorism. in foreign policy, egypt must be in a position to take the lead again in resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict. their role in this issue is key, and egypt should walk and define itself as a democracy without nuances, but it is far from it. so, although i welcome the resumption of talks, i think it is very important that the european union makes it clear that if it goes against the rights of egyptian citizens, we will not be silent.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, as you know, cop21 was the conference of decisions. it gave birth to the paris agreement. cop22 was supposed to be the one of solutions, but it was more the one of paradoxes. i will now tell you what cop23 must be: either it is the one on economic commitments, or we will have arrived definitely late. we urge this parliament today to support the efforts of developing countries in the transition to low-carbon societies, so that they are more sustainable and safer. but we also need to urge ourselves to stop making policies that serve markets and start making them that serve people. because do we really believe that the energy transition and the trade policy of the european union, especially the fight against climate change, are compatible? it's not a good idea. we have said it many times: unless there is a change in the model of economic growth, there is no way to mitigate the environmental deterioration of the planet. we need a profound change in our production system. energy transition, yes, but we also need changes in the global agro-food system. the battle for climate is political, and it confronts two different worldviews. at this cop23 let us hope that the worldview of women, especially farmers and indigenous women, will gain prominence, and that the vision of the energy lobbies and multinationals, who often speak through our governments, will lose all power.
mr president, commissioner, europe must take the lead in achieving the objectives we set ourselves at cop21 and, in this respect, 20% of the union's budget is now being allocated to action to combat climate change. we are in the midst of upgrading the emissions trading market and establishing a circular economy that minimizes waste and optimizes raw materials, and we must do more. it will be of little use to have an agreement if, in the end, it is not respected or if the main actors do not end up being involved, favouring a situation of outsourcing of european industry which ends up maintaining the same number of emissions and, therefore, there is no progress on the environmental side, and on the other hand, rebound, we have a serious negative impact on the social and economic side in europe. we therefore ask the commission and the council to ensure that, in the implementation of the paris agreement, a constructive dialogue is held to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves among all the parties and to ensure that the necessary resources are available to achieve the joint objective of 100 billion us dollars per year by 2020. it has been two years since we reached the agreement, and every minute that passes takes us further away from the goal.
mr president, while we are here, anyway, complaining with all the right reasons about the loss of rights for 400 000 passengers, the company itself is launching a mega-surge of one million seats for the same months and at a price which - i won't say this to avoid publicity, but it is shameful: 'i leave 400 000 on the ground and mistreat them and, at the same time, i am advertising and launching one million seats for the others, for whom they will be mistreated in the next wave'. that's why i think that, in a way - because i'm starting to think that it's financial perverse engineering - we should get our hands on this company because, of course, it's cheating travelers. their organisation cannot be worse and their forecasts absolutely unacceptable. there is also the mistreatment of pilots - who laughs and who criticizes - and it directly attacks european standards and the forecast of fatigue in crews. i would therefore ask you, commissioner, not only for the specific sanctions we can impose by mandate at european level and for their harmonization. because some societies ask you for one thing, others for another... in the end, we don't really know what the ultimate sanction is going to be. and on the other hand, to facilitate claims. from a digital point of view, every traveller should receive information about his rights and how to complain to the airline automatically when he buys a flight.
mr president, commissioner, the mass cancellation of ryanair flights is an opportunity to demonstrate the usefulness of the union through cooperation between all the relevant parties. although it is the national authorities which must carry out the checks in each member state, the commission must ensure that the criteria are uniform in all the member states and that the process produces satisfactory and identical results. to achieve this, and with over 400 000 people affected, the commission could develop a digital guide which, in a simple and inexpensive way, little more than an interactive pdf and a dedicated banner, could be offered in all the official languages throughout the member states. by consulting it, rayanair users who purchase their tickets, mainly via the internet, could compare this official information with that provided by the company itself and, in this way, all the rights of users would be protected and complaints would be better informed. it is also a good time to review the way the company has operated - for years under scrutiny for unclear practices - and to promote transparency for private organisations that sell their claims advice services and ensure that they deliver the services they advertise.
mr president, 18,000 flights on 34 routes and 400,000 customers affected in four months. if we were talking about a public company, we would be talking about mismanagement and surely those responsible should have resigned by now. but since this is a company with a long history of cancellations and lack of protection for consumers and their workers, it seems that we have to resign ourselves and believe that these cancellations are due to a small company doing a holiday reset. however, ryanair is now the largest passenger carrier in europe and we must demand the highest levels of responsibility from it. these irregularities should be investigated by the european aviation authorities. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2010. this case opens a pandora's box which the commission has tried to keep hidden by announcing the supposed success of the liberalisation of the aviation sector. it is clear that they were more concerned with deregulation than with the safety of passengers. are they gonna wait for the next mass cancellation? would things change if european commissioners were ever to travel in lowcost?
mr president, the ryanair crisis has not been a response to a problem of organisation and management of the company. it's more, it's much more. we are faced with one of the most damaging recruitment practices in the aviation industry, which has resulted in more than 140 pilots of the irish company leaving it. more than 70% of ryanair's pilot staff are fake self-employed, with no right to be paid during sick leave or holidays. the rest periods are not respected and, in order to be able to work, they are forced to open their fake company in ireland, benefiting the low-cost company in taxation. it is the lack of regulation and control by the european union that ryanair is benefiting from and this is what has led to this crisis, in which hundreds of thousands of consumers have been affected. the fault lies not with the management but with the european union's derogatory labour practices and permissiveness.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i have listened to your speeches with great interest. i would like to make a few comments on each of the speeches, but unfortunately some colleagues chose not to listen to my answer and left the chamber, even though they spoke very firmly. and i would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to a few essential facts. the first thing we know very well is that these proposals were initiated in discussions with the entire scientific community in the european union: endocrinologists, toxicologists, oncologists, cardiologists. i'm a heart surgeon myself. i know what human health is. and no multinational corporation is going to help. that's not what this is about. it's about scientific criteria, and we've seen that there's a lot of very different opinions among scientists. since the regulatory sphere is also very broad, we decided to reach a scientific consensus. we're not the scientific jury. they presented their agreement and shared view. they also discussed methodologies and the regulatory mechanism. i would very much like to hear your specific suggestions on methodologies. we've been discussing this in the envi committee since i came here in 2014. we presented the 2015 positions, then we discussed the impact assessment, then there was a public consultation period, we discussed a lot. in fact, we've talked about it a few times in committee, because the profiling committee deals with those positions. i'm okay with that. i'm okay with the argument. we have of course discussed the legal arguments, and we started discussing them with the european council not even a year ago, but only in july of this year, after completing the difficult negotiations, we are in consultation with the commission's legal service, which is not incompetent, because, as you know, it is impossible to submit a proposal without the consent of the legal service. i understand that legal services in different institutions may interpret differently, but i am not a proponent of legal dispute. and so i think we've made a balanced proposal and with certain methodologies. when we discussed it with the council, yes, the member states put forward different arguments, they had to be reconciled, but this amendment it does not violate common criteria and scientific definitions. there is no more, just a common definition from the world health organization. we're counting on it. so i think today is a really great opportunity to have a conversation, especially with those who have left, who are not listening to me now. to discuss, because i'm open to discussion. a lot of people have talked about democracy, and that's what democracy is about: discussing, not saying what you think and walking away. i'm not one for debate. let me conclude. i am aware that some of you consider the criteria proposed as imperfect. i would, however, like to emphasize once again that their adoption would be a significant step forward compared to the current situation with respect to the better protection of human health and the environment. the current applicable interim criteria are, indeed, not fit for purpose. it is true. we could discuss the theory of the perfect criteria for many more years, as opinions and views on this topic remain deeply divided. however, we will only make progress on this issue if we replace the interim criteria and start to apply new criteria. we will be the pioneering union in the world. these criteria will constitute a unique opportunity to better protect the health of citizens and the environment. i therefore ask you not to vote in favour of the proposed objection tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. we have become accustomed to silent springs, with almost no insects, no birds and very little wildlife. the widespread use of chemicals in all areas of human activity and their effects as endocrine disruptors was warned in 2013 by the who. the agency stressed that exposure to these products is a concern not only for wildlife but also for humans. the who insisted that legislators should take measures to regulate human and environmental exposure to these substances. after a long wait, the commission surprises us with a definition of hormonal disruptor, which excludes hormonal disruptor insecticides and exempts them from being considered as such, even if they have a hormonal effect on other arthropods. is this how the commission is fulfilling its mandate to protect people, animals, the environment and its ecosystems? this exclusion affects 95% of the animal kingdom, which is made up of arthropods, which play a key role in the balance of ecosystems, and also puts the health of humans and other vertebrates at risk. it is unacceptable to define this and it also requires weight tests to determine the endocrine effect which could take years.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by daniela aiuto, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/45/ec on safety rules and standards for passenger ships (com ((2016) 0369 - c8-0208/2016 - 2016/0170 ((cod)) (a8-0167/2017);- report by izaskun bilbao barandica, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 98/41/ec on the registration of persons sailing on board passenger ships operating from or to ports of the member states of the community and directive 2010/65/eu of the european parliament and of the council on the form of information required when ships are berthed or berthed in ports of the member states (com ((2016) 0369 - c8-0208/2016 - c8-0170/2016);- proposal for a council directive of the european parliament and of the council on the safety of ships operating in ports of the member states and on the regular and repealled inspection of ships (com (com (2016) 01702/07); report by the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and council on the directive 2009/167/16/ec repeal directive of the european parliament and council on the regular report of the inspection of ships and the inspection of ships and the inspection of ships and the cargo system of ships and the state and the state of the european parliament (com (2016) - a7-a7-01706/06/02/02/02/06/06/06/06/06/06/06/06/06/06/06/
the rapporteur. mr president, improving the safety of passengers in maritime transport by providing uniform data to emergency services in the event of an accident throughout the union, and doing so with the utmost respect for privacy and european data protection rules, is the objective of this report. we have here an agreement which has had from the beginning the best will on the part of all, an attitude which i want to acknowledge and i want to thank especially itxaso and mae for the work they have done, the alternative rapporteurs and also the commission. but let me stress in particular the role of the maltese presidency, which deserves public recognition for the commitment with which it has carried out its six-month presidency. the report also seeks to contribute to the shared objective of better legislation and the elimination of obstacles through simpler rules, because in this particular aspect of passenger data, the dispersion of regulations, the organisational constraints and the distance between what the rules envisaged and what technology allows were already unacceptable today: a gap which, in addition to penalizing efficiency in a possible rescue operation, contributed to legal uncertainty. the agreement with the council focuses on new rules to digitise the register of passengers on ships and provide full data to rescue services to improve their operational efficiency. we are thus protecting the right and also responding to the need of family members to have verified and reliable information in emergency and distress situations. the purpose is to make the exact number of passengers and other useful information immediately available to search and rescue services in the event of an accident. precious minutes can now be lost because the data on the people on board is stored by a shipping company. the search and rescue centre has to ask the company's contact person for the necessary information, and in digital form the information will be directly accessible. in order to facilitate assistance to victims and their relatives, the data recorded shall include the nationality of the passengers. the rules in force oblige the shipping company to record the name, date of birth, sex and, if the passenger so wishes, the need for special assistance in case of emergency. the new rules also provide for the possibility of voluntarily providing a telephone number for emergency contacts. under the new requirements, the data shall be sent to the competent authority in electronic format within 15 minutes of the vessel's departure. two means of transmission may be used: the national single window or the automatic identification system, subject to certain conditions. the progress made in developing national one-stop shops will hopefully serve as a basis for promoting a european one-stop shop in the future. the agreement is also characterised by its ability to offer solutions and flexibility and provides for specific situations for short crossings affecting germany, denmark and sweden. in such cases, data transmission shall be accepted until one hour after the start of the journey. privacy and data protection are ensured by the immediate destruction of these passenger lists, automatically and without undue delay, as soon as the journey is completed and the data are no longer needed to support rescue services in an accident, emergency or for use in legal proceedings. member states will have four years to make the necessary technological and organisational transition and another two years from the entry into force of the directive to be able to incorporate the new rules into their national legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank mrs aiuto for the work she has done on this difficult report, because this proposal adds safety guarantees to maritime transport passengers and because it clarifies the requirements that ships must respect during their construction process. it also details the stability conditions and improves fire protection measures. the agreement, which will apply to ships over 24 metres in length, strengthens the effectiveness of the legislation because the new standards it defines favour uniform interpretation. the logical consequence is a reinforcement of the security guarantees and more control possibilities. the agreement also solves the problem of the initial deadline for repealing the directive in respect of aluminium ships, a serious problem for one of the member states. the solution found allows this requirement to be waived only for ships currently under construction or for orders available to shipyards for which financing contracts already exist. in any event, these vessels shall be subject to national rules without prejudice to their safety.
member of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of commissioner bulc, i would like to thank the parliament and, in particular, all three rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on these files and for their constructive approach which facilitated reaching an agreement with the council. thank you so much. on safety rules and standards, we are sending a clear signal to our citizens travelling on board passenger ships in eu waters that their safety is our priority. i wish to reiterate that the commission’s services, with the assistance of the european maritime safety agency, are currently focusing on developing guidelines for small passenger ships. we will also duly respond to the parliament’s call to assess the need for common european requirements for sailing ships and ship carrier tenders. concerning the legislation proposal, we are ensuring that the competent authorities have immediate access to accurate data on persons on board in case of emergency, and that they can therefore deal with any accident more effectively. i am sure that you will continue to fully support our efforts to further digitalise maritime transport and to enhance the single window for reporting formalities. this is where the commission is committed to proposing revised legislation on reporting formalities by next april, which will establish a harmonised european maritime single window environment. the new rules on inspections will ensure that the respective regime brings value for money for all parties concerned. besides the cost savings, it removes the unnecessary duplication and complexity of existing regimes, which had developed over time and resulted in overlapping requirements spread across different pieces of legislation. the new rules will facilitate implementation, monitoring and enforcement. i am sure that you will continue to fully support our efforts to further improve, simplify and modernise maritime legislation, and commissioner bulc looks forward to our future cooperation.
the rapporteur. mr president, we are aware that these are three very important reports, but they must not have generated much enthusiasm in the house. in any case, i will respond to the comments of our colleague who said that the safety of ships is not achieved by registering them. we are obviously talking about a directive which will improve the collection of data so that search and rescue can be effective in the event of an accident. we must therefore focus our arguments on this directive and its content. as for your fear, you spoke about the possible misuse of this information, i must tell you that regulation (eu) 2016/679 will be applied here, which is about the protection of personal data and privacy. in addition, i have made a reference in my speech to the fact that data will be deleted, that is, all information, when it is no longer necessary for the purposes for which it was retrieved. and it will be deleted automatically and without undue delay. so, all the fears you might have are covered in this report. nothing more to say, other than express my gratitude to all of you. and a final message on the problem we always have: we have made the effort; i hope that parliament will indeed vote with a large majority tomorrow, but what we need is for the member states to comply with the directives within the time limits that are set, because this will contribute to the improvement and safety of the entire maritime sector.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
mr president, on 1 october the desire of catalonia to decide its future in freedom and without any lock-downs was clearly and forcefully demonstrated. the government's response was forceful: police violence and violation of fundamental rights in the european union, with the sole purpose of preventing catalans from voting, demonstrating a very worrying authoritarian drift. the government and its allies have systematically refused to offer a democratic and peaceful way out to the people of catalonia. this is no longer just a question of "independence yes or no", but of "democracy and civil liberties yes or no". europe must take a stand, defending the legitimate decisions of the people of catalonia, opening a dialogue between equals, without repression and without locks, to build a free, democratic and solidary coexistence. if the european institutions do not take a stand for dialogue, they will become part of the problem.
mr president, sitting in the next european council there will be a member state president who has become a real problem and a source of shame for europe. i am talking about mr rajoy, who is violating fundamental rights and european values in catalonia. last sunday, he went as far as to order the spanish police to repress, with dreadful violence, peaceful crowds who just wanted to vote. more than 800 citizens, voters, were injured by the spanish police as a result of this irresponsible action. mr timmermans, you are doing a great job when trying to defend fundamental rights in the european union. will you ask mr rajoy on what grounds did he violate the european charter of fundamental rights? will you help us to get mediation to resolve the situation in a democratic and peaceful way? when are you going to trigger article 7? if the european institutions keep saying that it is all about the law and nothing but the law, that it is an internal matter, you will deserve the world record for turning catalan pro-european citizens into eurosceptics. against all the difficulties and despite all the state repression, we voted, and we voted to be free. so, as we say in catalan: visca catalunya lliure! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue card question. what is it? mr solé, i would ask you: you who have a mouth full of freedom, of democracy... do you think that to carry out a coup d'état in a country, to go against the constitution of this country, to go against the laws of this country is freedom? is that democracy, on the part of the secessionists, that you are supporting in catalonia, mr solé?
the answer is 'blue card'. coup d'états are made by the military, not the voters, not the votes, not the ballot boxes. we are defending the fundamental freedoms, the freedoms of the citizens of catalonia, who are also citizens of the european union. voting is not a coup. voting is democracy.
mr president, the european union is a necessary reality between nations which, after centuries of fratricidal wars, have understood that the way forward is peace, union in democracy. and there is no democracy without law, and law, the constitution, is the pillar that guarantees our rights, our freedom, that all opinions have their place in dialogue and not in confrontation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty on european union. in catalonia, a parliamentary majority, but a minority in votes, has violated the statute of autonomy and the spanish constitution, in sectarian irresponsibility trying to achieve its objectives, fracturing catalan society in two. hans kensel, the leading constitutionalist, defined a coup d'état as the subversion of the constitutional order outside the legally established channels. this is what happened in catalonia, and catalonia is not just on sunday: it is fundamentally before and after october 1. it is not just an attack on democracy in spain, it is also an attack on the european union: it is a pandora's box.
mr president, in the spanish state the regime of '78 is collapsing. all three of his legs are broken. the state of the autonomous communities has not responded to the aspirations of millions of catalans. yesterday we saw a monarchy more stale and dangerous than ever, and the economic system only generates unemployment and poverty. the popular party wants to resurrect the regime with "arriba españa", "viva la guardia civil", taking the bourbon out for a walk and with beatings. and for this, as for almost everything, it has the invaluable collaboration of the socialist party and of a european union designed to make sure that nothing changes and which, even today, has not condemned the extreme violence of the spanish security forces on sunday in catalonia. there is no solution with mariano rajoy in moncloa, and that's why we say: rajoy, resign. but let's go further: there is no solution with this regime. that catalonia is the beginning of the end of the monarchy and that it opens the doors to a new territorial model, but, above all, that catalonia is what the catalans want it to be. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mrs. albiol, when you talk about the '78 regime, do you talk about this? are you talking about the 1978 constitution? the constitution which the majority of spaniards voted for, especially in catalonia, and which gave us a parliamentary monarchy as a political form, with the king as head of state? you mean this regime? you're talking about the democratic transition after 40 years of francoism? please explain to me what you mean by this regimen.
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, i'm talking about the regime of '78, the regime that inherited francoism, a monarchy that we didn't vote for. nobody has chosen that gentleman. we have not been able to vote and, moreover, the spanish government has always refused to hold a referendum on whether to have a monarchy or a republic. the constitution has already been proven to be obsolete. let's go to a constitutional process and let's go to a federal republic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, mr timmermans, you cannot ignore what is happening in catalonia. yesterday, many people took to the streets again peacefully to denounce the violence and to ask for their voices to be heard. you should listen to them. i have to tell you: you must condemn the acts of violence that took place. the police action had a court order, but the home office operative violated fundamental rights recognized in the charter of fundamental rights, and you have to say something, you have to say something. look, you have to be very aware of the current situation. if you do not intervene - which is what you should do - if there is no dialogue, we are going to a very, very worrying situation. at this point, we can either go for a unilateral declaration of independence - which is surely a mistake, but will lead to more repression by the state - or we can open up paths of dialogue. mr timmermans, i ask you on behalf of the many catalan men and women who are worried at home today to open up the way to negotiation and dialogue. it is urgent, because this, mr timmermans, is also a european matter. please intervene, facilitate dialogue and respond to what the catalans are asking for these days.
mr president, the international parliamentary delegation in which i participated considers that the referendum was a demonstration of the determination of the catalan people with regard to the right to vote and the democratic process, and calls on the european union to take account of the result. but the commission says it's an internal matter. not any more. it is already a european matter, and we are seeing it clearly here. don't hide behind the law. the stubborn defence of the constitution has led one member state to violence. there is a political problem at the root here which is not new and which must be addressed. the spanish government won't do it. don't make the same mistake and act. voting is a democratic exercise, and it's that there are peoples within your geopolitical map that we want to be free, simply because we feel that way. we don't ask you to understand, but we do ask you to respect it. to the catalan people and their politicians, thank you for your lesson in dignity and courage. you have the support and solidarity of the basque people, and we will soon follow the same path. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr. juaristi, it is surprising that you give democracy meanings to anyone, when your party has not yet completely condemned the political violence they commanded in the basque country. you speak for the basque people, for those who are like you and for those who are not. you cannot arrogate to yourself the representation of the entire basque people. you're against the law. the law is the foundation of this parliament, the rule of law. and the order of the factors alters the product. (the president cut the speaker off)
the answer is 'blue card'. i want to address the commission, mr timmermans, to see that this is a truly european problem. please act. act now. don't think this is an internal matter of the spanish state. this needs a solution, it needs a political solution and it needs european involvement. please act.
mr president, today my heart is in spain. that's why i wrote my speech, so i wouldn't get emotional. in a few hours or days, a region of spain, which has never been independent, will unilaterally, illegally and by force, declare its independence. i don't know if you're fully aware of that. we all hurt from the images of sunday, yes. however, i beg you not to stand there when there are 48 hours left before the second largest country in europe, my country, can be split in half. spain is not yugoslavia. we are a stable and mature democracy, as stable and as mature as any of those represented here, and we don't need guardians and we don't need mediators with insurgent politicians. are we going to have a dialogue? yes, under the mantle of the constitution. can our constitution be changed? yes, but not by force. whether spain is broken or united is a matter for all spaniards and spaniards alone. as the king said last night, we won't leave the catalans alone. we will not leave those who, for fear of stigma, remain silent and did not participate in the sham referendum. nor can i ignore those who came to vote in good faith on sunday, and i do not want to ignore them. all catalans are spanish and all catalans are my countrymen. but make no mistake: the problem of national-populism is not unique to spain. it's a plague that's spreading across europe. if you let spain break up over catalonia today, a row of dominoes will follow you across the continent. instead of a europe of 27, we will have a 'non-europe' of mini-states. nationalism is historically the cause of europe's pain. as europeans, you must not agree with the national-populists. yesterday was the 30th anniversary of german reunification. now it's spain that's fighting to stay united. it is now up to spain to talk to spain, to no one else. i would like to conclude by saying that they should not point their finger at us, but support us, as we once supported germany, the baltic republics or eastern europe. europe is made to unite, not to divide. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the migration crisis, the threat of global terrorism, the problems hampering the unity of the digital transport or energy markets are real, pressing problems which have their logical place in the next european council. and i am going to ask you, in line with the letter that my country's president, mr iñigo urkullu, sent yesterday to the president of the commission, mr jean-claude juncker, to put the problem in catalonia on the agenda, because the stability of a member state is at stake and, consequently, that of the union itself. we are europeans, we believe in the values of the founding fathers and we are very concerned that silence, blockade or violence are not solutions to a problem which can only be tackled by political means. we are talking about fundamental rights. after world war ii, the rulers of the powers that faced each other on the battlefield were able to found this project that unites us in our diversity. the first agreement, which gave rise to the ecsc, was not built by exchanging reproaches and pushing the limits of the law, but by listening to, understanding and building with the other. please encourage this approach to be applied to the solution of this problem.
mr president, spain is not prepared to engage in dialogue, as we saw again yesterday with the king's message. i therefore call on the european union to take a firm stand and to ensure that the fundamental rights of the european union and human rights, which have been violated in catalonia, are respected. and this is not my opinion, but that of an international team of experts in electoral research. i read it verbatim: "we witnessed events that no election observer should ever witness, and we hope we never witness scenes of this nature again. we see numerous and repeated violations of civil and human rights. even more, it's clear that it was a centrally orchestrated, military-style, carefully planned operation. we are appalled that armed and masked officers entered the polling stations with the purpose of preventing a peaceful democratic process. that's what he says, and he's calling for the process to be respected. allowing more repression on the catalan people and their institutions will only provoke more disaffection.
mr president, i wish to address you as a catalan socialist in the light of the events we have recently witnessed. firstly, many of us have seen images that have horrified us, and we have also denounced the disproportionate use of force against peaceful protesters. but today the european parliament must above all send a message about the underlying political situation and appeal to several things: 1) respect for the rule of law and not law for law's sake, but law as a guarantee of coexistence, law as a guarantee that abuses are not committed by public authorities; 2) dialogue, finding political solutions as the only possible way out, finding new political consensus that recognize and guarantee all their feelings, their feelings, their identities; and 3) making an appeal to calm the current situation, to reject any unilateral way that leads the catalan institution to disaster, to, as europeans, find solutions to the conflict "from the fruit of recognition and coexistence".
mr president, europe was born as a project of peace, understanding, diversity and coexistence, and today there is a part of europe where that project is in danger. of course, as happens to many of my colleagues, there are images we saw on 1 october that we do not like, that we reject and regret, but, above all, there is a reality, which is a social fracture that worries us. that's why we appeal to the rule of law. that's why we appeal to the rule of law. because we understand that you can vote, but you have to vote a social dialogue. we must vote for a political agreement between the forces of our country, to understand that we must seek those spaces of coexistence. i call for understanding, for dialogue. this is no time for reproach. this is not the time to come here and hand out responsibilities. some may have come to say what their speech is to get applause, but i think it's time to listen to what we're being asked to do. please, let's talk about this. please talk.
mr president, i would like to take this minute to clarify some things which are part of the alphabet of democracy and of this house and what it represents. spain is a member of the european union because it has accredited a constitutional order and, in order to remain a member, it must maintain that order. vice-president timmermans recently said this because the situation we are in at the moment is clearly a matter for europe, but it is because spain, which has its flag there along with the others, must maintain that order in order to remain a member. the only thing i would add is that the secessionists have tried to break that constitutional order, and what we are talking about here is representing and defending all european citizens and all spanish citizens. when we talk about the catalans, we are talking about all catalans, and i would like to recall here only the words of the head of state, the king, who yesterday clearly stated that there had been unacceptable disloyalty and misappropriation of the institutions. so, yes, from europe i demand that we transfer all the citizens who must defend the order of spain.
madam president, i wanted to table a motion for a resolution on rule 186 because today's debate on preparations for the next council has focused on the question of catalonia, and the chairman of the debate has complained. the problem is that on monday they decided to allow the debate on the situation of fundamental rights in catalonia to be held only by the group chairmen and in a very opaque way. president tajani said on monday that we were voting, firstly, whether the debate should take place, secondly, the time, and thirdly, the title; but at no time was the format voted on or decided in this house. please do not try to cover up the seriousness of the conflict in catalonia and the violence against civilians with a piece of garbage. we should decide clearly in what format we are going to hold that debate. the citizens and this parliament deserve to decide this clearly and democratically.
mr president, i would ask you to withdraw a flag of coup against a member state of the european union, spain, which these people are flying.
mr president, a small remark for the sake of clarity in our debates, because confusion is on the agenda. i will ask my colleagues, when they speak of this problem, which is a spanish problem, to speak of spanish catalonia and not of catalonia as such, because fortunately there is a very democratic french catalonia which has nothing to do with all this. so let us be specific in our talks.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the budgetary pact has been one of the european union's great mistakes and one of the turning points that have also in some way fuelled anti-europeanism. this intergovernmental agreement is the flagship of austerity in europe and has been the element that has enabled the council to be the implementing arm of a programme of austerity and structural reforms that has impoverished many countries and increased inequalities. we can now say that this recipe has been an economic failure and a devastating social one. this device also lacks democratic scrutiny by both parliament and the luxembourg court. let me remind you how the so-called "golden rule" was applied in spain in 2011: with an undemocratic reform of the constitution, without debate, without a citizen's endorsement, creating a serious institutional crisis... and many of the institutional crises that followed are strongly linked to what happened that day, to a feeling of kidnapping of democracy in a part of the citizenry that still persists today. that is why i believe that the best thing to do with the budgetary compact is to repeal it and ensure that all the economic and budgetary coordination policies in the european union, which are extremely necessary, are done within the treaties with strong scrutiny in the european parliament and with full respect for the democratic processes in each state of the european union.
mr president, 25 years ago the maastricht treaty was signed. i was 12 years old, but i remember very well how many people understood already then that trying to impose, through a treaty, a neoliberal economic model was a direct danger to democracy, sovereignty and social rights in europe. since then, the history of europe has been the effort of the powerful to impose neoliberal economic policies in the face of popular resistance. the signing of the budgetary pact led my country to amend the constitution in the middle of a summer, which was a covert coup against democracy by the great coalition of socialists and popular. the only thing that has been achieved is to plunge the continent into a situation of permanent political crisis, mass unemployment, inequality and territorial crises. the commission is now announcing that it intends to take advantage of the united kingdom's withdrawal to incorporate this pact into european legislation: we ask you to desist from this attempt. the budgetary pact does not lead to greater european cohesion, but to increased tensions and to the disintegration of the european project itself: we will not allow that. give up your attempt.
mr president, it should be remembered that the budgetary and stability pacts are largely the result of the common currency. i would like to give you a little historical reflection on the gulf that the european economy faced with the common currency a few years ago. the stability pact and the budget pact are the consequence of the fact that the differences between the different countries, the macroeconomic divergences between the north and the south, made it necessary to maintain the euro under a number of conditions. i don't like a lot of them. i do not like the pact as a whole, but it is the consequence of a common currency, ladies and gentlemen. and this is what we have to ensure, that we have a common currency with which to deal with the crisis, the future, globalisation. and i, being a europeanist, want a common currency and i accept some conditions. and those conditions will now be discussed because, by incorporating the treaty into union law, we have the possibility for parliament to discuss it, change it, make it more flexible, evaluate it. yes, we have parliamentary control. it is not easy, but the treaty is intergovernmental, union law is parliamentary law. i would like to refer to those who are opposed to the common currency and to people who want to go back to the lira or the peseta or the franc. what future do you offer your citizens by going back to the lira? let the citizens know that there is no economic future outside the single currency, even if it means making sacrifices.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr lehne, mr commissioner oettinger, in this house where there is a lot of debate about let us say bad news for the european union a brexit that is stuck by the absence of the party that brought it about and an example of how secessionist political revenues can be obtained by breaking the law and the rule of law and by manipulating the good will of the people, however, we can only congratulate ourselves on excellent news that we have taken only twenty-three years to achieve. and the success is yours, mr lehne, of all your colleagues in the court of auditors and of all of us in general, because this parliament and the committee on budgetary control in particular have fought and fought hard to achieve this: an opinion which is not negative, but only subject to reservations, which gives us, at last, a true picture of reality. a rigorous methodological verification of the result of huge investments in improving internal and external audit systems, in training human resources at all levels, in visits and interviews with institutional leaders, with those in charge of member states, regions, municipalities, companies, universities, etc., to go, year after year, discharge after discharge, reducing the initial percentage by two digits to the current, for 2016, of 3.1%. where, finally, we also clearly have data that allows us to compare, with rigor and the international standards mandatory for a public chamber such as the european court of auditors, what can be comparable, and not pears with apples. i would therefore particularly welcome the clarification on the need for another formula or format to control financial instruments and to avoid further confusion for european citizens. i am also grateful to him for the way in which we have gradually been able to obtain the data and present them so that we are able to present not only an error rate with better methodological justification but, above all, to indicate and encourage action by the european institutions and the member states, knowing that the information they already have could have helped them to improve that error rate. finally, and quickly, i only ask you - and i promise our support for this - to improve the methodology in the internal systems, to improve the presentation and the pedagogy - to make them comparable to those in the member states, which the citizens understand. and finally, the leap into the 21st century: a methodology for results and for being able to measure the budget based on results, which you have explained very well.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to welcome the presence of the president of the court of auditors, mr lehne, and to congratulate the court on its 40th birthday. i have noted one point in your speech which has satisfied me, commissioner, and that is the increase in public confidence in the institutions. i think that this has a lot to do, in some ways, with the way in which the institutions use the resources made available to them by the taxpayer. i am pleased, as are other colleagues, that the error rate has been reduced, that there are no widespread errors, that the control measures have indeed had an effect, but as mr zeller and mrs grässle said, it is important not to rest on our laurels - even if they are deserved - but that there is still a lot to be done. one of them is to emphasize the 280 billion, which is a record in terms of deferred appropriations and which should make us reflect on how to improve our procedures; the increase in the overall financial risk, which is increasing considerably and which also affects the european union; and, of course, - as has been pointed out here in this debate - the number of financial instruments, the number of entities benefiting from budgetary resources. i think that compromises, in some ways, accountability and transparency. we will continue to work in the coming weeks on the preparation of the discharge report. the court of auditors' report is obviously a valuable instrument and we must continue to work towards a more efficient, more flexible and more transparent budget.
madam president, this is commissioner jourová. the european public prosecutor's office is finally here! we are taking a historic step. after four years of hard work, debate, yellow cards in national parliaments and vetoes by some member states, we are now moving forward with enhanced cooperation with 20 of the 25 potential participating member states, given that the united kingdom, ireland and denmark have been excluded from this area of freedom, justice and security. but it is a really huge step we are taking, and the european parliament has done everything in its power to facilitate it, because we have indeed passed substantive criminal law, the directive on the protection of the union's financial interests by means of criminal law - and i thank you for reminding me of this, commissioner jourová, i was the rapporteur for the report - as this tool will be crucial to protecting the financial interests of the union and the union's budget against fraud, which can amount to 500 million euros a year according to the lowest estimate. and it will do so by overcoming all the technical difficulties, the difficulties imposed by what has been called the royalty of the states, a tool for gathering evidence, for collecting evidence, for measures to guarantee rights, for the defence, procedural difficulties and the link between the national state prosecutor and the european public prosecutor's office when there is a specific interest of a member state. it is a very significant step, and what we want is to extend the legal base to cover also serious transnational crime under article 83 and terrorism and for the rest of the member states to be able to get on board this formidable instrument which is the european public prosecutor's office. i hope that it will be effective as soon as possible and that it will recover the financial resources against fraud which will be essential to combat unemployment and to create jobs and economic growth in the european union.
madam president, if you have to use the mallet, you can use it with me. i'm not going to be original, but i want to be fair. as mr aguilar has pointed out - as has already been said - it is assumed that the public coffers of the member states are deprived of at least eur 500 million because of crossborder vat fraud and other fraud that have a huge impact on the financing of public policies in the states, that is, on the welfare of citizens. moreover, as has also been noted, they are often linked to criminal networks that finance terrorism and drug trafficking. it is not original to say this, but it is important: the european public prosecutor's office is crucial to protecting the financial interests of the union, which is to defend citizens. the new european public prosecutor's office will thus be able to initiate criminal proceedings and will do so with a structure and a functioning that are aimed at efficiency; it will be independent of the member states, and it is hoped that it will do this quickly - this is harder to believe, but we shall see. we know that it is not a magic solution and, although a grain does not make a barn, something will help improve the viability of our welfare systems, and it is important.
madam president, hamza yalçin, a swedish journalist of turkish origin, has spent 56 days in prison in barcelona because the mariano rajoy government complied with an interpol order issued by the turkish government: an order for insulting the president, for writing in a magazine that does not support the regime and for terrorist links by a soldier in a leftist party. the spanish government of mariano rajoy has acted in complicity with the autocratic regime that president erdogan has imposed in turkey, which has imprisoned 163 journalists, closed 128 media outlets or kept 78 mayors and 13 kurdish and turkish leftist mps in prison. but it seems that as long as turkey cooperates with the xenophobic project of this fortress europe, the european union is prepared to be an accomplice to repression.
madam president, commissioner jourová, this is a debate which is not only timely, it is a necessary debate, because the interpol red news system has given rise not only to dysfunctions but clearly to intolerable political abuses. for example, in my own country, as has been pointed out here, in the summer of 2017, a turkish-swedish citizen and a german-turkish citizen were both the subject of reprehensible extradition files, on the clearest basis of political persecution. and the council of europe has already warned, as did the parliamentary assembly in a 2017 resolution, of the need to prevent countries with an infamous human rights record from being able to use interpol to prosecute their opponents. it is important that the commission clarifies to this parliament what it intends to do to ensure that this distortion cannot take place, that the system is subject to all checks on the merits of extradition files so that they cannot be subject to human rights violations or abuses, to unacceptable uses, and in particular in the system for the exchange of information through the second generation sis, through etias, through the entry/exit system and the exchange of information between the systems of the member states and interpol. and that is why it is important that the commission clarifies what action it intends to take to make the case more rigorous, to prevent a mandate of deprivation of liberty or an abuse of the fundamental rights of individuals from being exercised through interpol notifications.
in writing. a lot of things don't work at interpol. interpol cannot be used for political purposes, as a mere tool in the service of repressive governments, but must maintain its standards of neutrality, and be used to share information that allows the arrest of real criminals, and not of rogue journalists. interpol must be a useful mechanism for sharing information, something very necessary and which has proved insufficient in recent years, with the terrorist attacks in barcelona, paris or brussels. it is unacceptable that in some countries the interpol red notice system is being misused for the sole purpose of suppressing freedom of expression or persecuting political opponents. the interpol regulations in article 3 are clear: they prohibit the investigation of persons on the grounds of race, religion, etc. but we know that this is not being complied with. turkey systematically uses interpol's red notices to pursue people for political reasons. how long will we continue to regard the authoritarian erdogan regime as a priority partner of the eu? until things change, we will not tire of asking this question.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, at this crucial moment when we are approaching the presentation of the most important legislative package in recent years, concerning the revision of all the regulations governing road transport and where we have precisely lacked more regulations and more courage also in relation to road safety although it is true that we hope that the second part of the package will include the issue of safety in infrastructure, although it is not exactly or we do not see, at the moment, that it can deal with the current problem, we need to speak precisely and deal as soon as possible with the incidents that have been occurring for years. we're talking about the last of the... we have talked about kidnappings in the case of terrorism, we have talked about the calais cases, as was raised in the question. but we have also had the case of the spanish truck drivers, who were also attacked every time they crossed the french border by farmers who were not happy with the free movement of goods - so let us not fool ourselves. this means that these drivers are also facing new challenges. so if we are going to require them now, as is being proposed, to sleep away from the lorry, then we certainly need to make serious and credible commitments, not only on safe parking, but also and essentially to rehabilitate the sector, instead of continuing to denigrate it as we have done so far, and above all to get more traffic safety officers on our roads.
mr president, commissioner, i think it is right to highlight this issue on the commission's agenda at a time when we are beginning the debate on the road transport package and in the midst of a transition from the concept of transport itself, conceived as a sum of modes, to an integrated model of mobility. now that the amendment of the regulation on driving time and rest is under way, which has a direct impact on the safety of drivers, road safety and the conditions and quality of employment in the sector, i would like to ask that in the amendment, vague concepts such as what is meant by 'hogar', 'adequate rest' and so many other concepts be either removed or clarified. this issue is directly linked to what i consider to be a necessary definition of 'safe parking areas' in terms of road safety, but also in terms of physical safety and in terms of services for drivers. it also seems important, from the perspective of professional transport, to promote greater coordination between the police forces dealing with traffic and those carrying out border security checks on both sides of the border, which can avoid many congestion. finally, this reflection should include the promotion of connected vehicles, driver aids, tele-tolls and intelligent road management, including automated information on safe parking areas with shared tools that work in the cross-border environment. this will make the road a little safer.
mr president, when more than 11 million people in the european union make their living in road haulage activities, it becomes an obligation to have safer roads, safer rest areas and safer parking places. but investing in infrastructure is not the answer to the whole problem: the driving times and the quality of rest for hauliers are terrible. after exhausting days of driving, they often have to stop anywhere, without the right to a decent rest, to continue the march as soon as they wake up. added to this are the high levels of stress drivers are experiencing from having to watch their cargo and, if not, take care of the payments and the repercussions of losing it. the potential danger posed by these situations is a problem for road safety, for drivers and for society. we must increase controls, improve legislation and, above all, improve working conditions.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, thank you to the rapporteur for her work. the human rights of all citizens must be guaranteed. prisoners and prisoners too. too often, prison living conditions amount to inhuman or degrading treatment. it is very good news that this report is based on the principle of reintegration. it says that preventive detention should be a measure of last resort, that prison is particularly inadequate, for example, for seriously ill prisoners, and it would be the first eu text to condemn the policy of prisoners being kept away from the prison system in some member states. as a result of the dispersal policy of the spanish and french states, only two of the 314 politically motivated basque prisoners are in basque country prisons; 21 are seriously ill. this report is a first step in calling on the european commission to regulate the rights of prisoners at european level and to establish more safeguards.
mr president, the latest study on the situation in prisons in spain, carried out by the network of social organizations in the prison sector, is devastating: in spain there are more prisoners, for longer periods and for less serious crimes than in the rest of europe. and that our crime rate is well below the european average. the rate of incarceration in the spanish state is 32 per cent above the european average, and the length of sentences is more than double that average, and this is because successive reforms of the penal code have made our system increasingly harsh. 65% of people in prison have drug addiction problems, and one in four prisoners has mental health problems. in spain, prisons are being used as a warehouse to hide our social problems. prison should be a last resort. alternatives to prison, such as mediation for reparation of damages caused, community services or treatment outside prison for people with mental health problems or drug addiction are the alternative, and of course social justice, fighting inequality and strengthening public services are the only way to combat social problems.
mr president, commissioner jourová, in the last parliament, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i had the honour of chairing a european mission to analyse the prison system, the subject of our concern and which i dealt with as minister of justice of spain during my term of office. there are 1 600 000 people deprived of their liberty, and the way a society treats people deprived of their liberty is undoubtedly a measure of the quality of that society and its democracy. that is why we must be concerned that overcrowding, which is particularly sensitive in some countries - portugal, greece, france, belgium, hungary, italy and also my country, spain - is not the place where human rights abuses can occur as a result of overcrowding; inhuman and degrading treatment which is reported to the european court of human rights for violation of article 3; sexual assault practices in prisons; lack of medical care, lack of educational services and, above all, lack of resources. because it is essential that democratic states invest adequately in the prison system. i therefore join in the congratulations on the owninitiative report and support, above all, the vector aimed at strengthening reintegration, because this must be the orientation of prison sentences, and i therefore support, in particular, the paragraph in the report devoted to alternative measures to deprivation of liberty: open-ended measures.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures for the murders, attacks and disappearances of albinos in malawi, tanzania and burundi are shocking: in the last two years at least 20 people have been killed and more than 115 have been the victims of some form of aggression, not to mention those whose whereabouts are unknown. the malawian government must take political and judicial measures to stop these attacks. the european union and the united states, the main donors to the country, must also demand respect for human rights in the region and, in particular, the protection of this group at risk. but we cannot simply ask for respect for human rights in an abstract way. i think it is also essential to question a neo-colonial economic model of resource exploitation that kills with hunger, deforestation, drought and floods, crop failure and crop failure. ladies and gentlemen, violence against people with albinism is not only the product of superstition and witchcraft, but it is also a problem called poverty and hopelessness. we'll have to cut both of them off.
author. mr president, more than 40 years ago spain was a tourist paradise: sun and paella. but behind the sun and the paella, there was a dictatorship, there were people in prison, there was repression and there was no democracy. maldives is exactly the same, but much worse. we have wonderful islands, extraordinary seabeds, a corrupt, repressive and torturous regime. people who go to maldives forget about the people of maldives, which is the transcendent. a motion for a resolution has been tabled proposing individual personal sanctions for those responsible for repression, but it has not been approved, and it is regrettable - and one frankly hurts the soul - because there was something fundamental, which is a campaign of awareness for tourists who want to go to the maldives, to whom it would have to be said that they are going to paradise which is hell.
mr president, enhanced cooperation would also be very useful in monitoring the use of european funds in the various regions of this union, because, for example, when we have been paying attention to catalonia all week, other regions of spain are taking advantage of this to suppress legitimate citizen protests in the same way - that is, with violent police charges - such as those of the neighbours of murcia, who are demanding that their city not be divided in two by a five-metre high wall nine kilometres long that will isolate more than a hundred thousand people to allow the arrival of the high-speed rail. high speed, by the way, from which millions of euros have disappeared along the way and no one knows where or how. i hereby call on the government to demand that the construction of this wall be stopped immediately and that the roads be buried, as the residents of murcia have been asking for more than thirty years and as the regional government of murcia committed itself to in 2006.
mr president, the situation in prisons in many member states is worrying. many prisons are at or have already exceeded capacity. the resources allocated to both the reintegration of prisoners and to accompanying probation programmes are alarmingly insufficient. just a fact: the recidivism rate exceeds 50% in some eu countries. unfortunately, the protection of fundamental rights and human dignity, which are crucial in any democratic society, has been repeatedly called into question by the european court of human rights and the european committee for the prevention of torture and inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. systems focused solely on punishment are ineffective and often counterproductive. we believe that our societies deserve much more than growing prison populations and alarming recidivism rates, and that is why we call for the implementation of mediation and restorative justice systems, the implementation and adequate budgeting of reintegration programs during and after sentencing, and an end to the privatization processes of public prisons.
mr president, the socialists, and in particular the spanish socialists, welcome this own-initiative report on the prison situation in europe. and we have particularly supported the emphasis it places on the reintegration and re-socialization of the prison population. but, in the final vote, we chose to abstain because paragraph 29 of the resolution, in an indiscriminate and generic way and with harsh language, literally uses the word 'condemnation' when it refers to the policy of territorial distribution of prisoners throughout the national territory - which, with some critical accents, is known as the dispersion or removal policy of prisoners - as if this inflicts additional damage and is incompatible with resocalisation. quite the opposite. it turns out that re-socialization is impossible when we are dealing with organized crime, the crime that in italy is called mafia-style, with the radicalization that jihadism produces and, unfortunately, with terrorist crime - as we have seen in spain - where the territorial dispersion of prisoners precisely helps re-socialization, and the concentration in a single prison produces the opposite effect: the impossibility of re-socialization, re-education and reintegration, precisely because the radicalization of the incarcerated population occurs within the prisons themselves. that is why we think that this explanation of vote is necessary in the final vote, since it was impossible to vote separately and individually on paragraph 29.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, thank you for all the efforts you have made, but i think that the action plan to which this question refers is not an option, i think it is an obligation. in the basque country, the social economy is one of the keys to explaining why we have weathered the crisis better than the spanish economy. this is a mode of entrepreneurship that better fixes employment, that stimulates more the incorporation of talent into business and that generates sustainable, intelligent and inclusive growth; it brings positive values to the rest of the economic system and offers hope, the other way of conceiving and using the benefits, that of returning to capital its role as an instrument in the service of the real economy and not the other way around. that is why, first of all, a clear and homogeneous legal and fiscal framework at union level is needed for the social economy and all its forms of expression, and that is a clear and real obstacle to the development of a way of doing business and working that should be promoted at european level and that can contribute a lot to development by 2020.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president on behalf of myself and my group, i reject this claim by the green group for many very important reasons, but mainly for three. firstly, because the regulation contains a robust data protection system. mr buttarelli, the european data protection supervisor, is responsible for ensuring that data is used, retained, processed and stored correctly. that is the way it is in the rules of procedure. secondly, the legal services of the three institutions - the legal services of the council, the commission and the parliament - have said, orally and in writing and also at the request of the green group, that they have categorically said that opinion1/15, which concerns the european union-canada pnr, has no impact on the regulation establishing an entry/exit system. and thirdly, and very importantly. we all remember with pain - and especially our german colleagues - the terrorist attack on the christmas market in berlin. well, i want to tell you that the attacker, the terrorist, used 15 different identities. if the regulation establishing an entry/exit system had been in force, this would never have been possible. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to come back on wednesday to debate and, if necessary, vote on the regulation establishing an entry/exit system.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to express my thanks to parliament for its strong support for the proposed fertilising products regulation. in particular, i thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for all their valuable input. the regulation is in many ways ground-breaking and also very complex. being here today gives me a chance to recall its core principles. first of all, with regard to the potential of the circular economy, the proposed regulation is the first deliverable of the circular economy action plan. it is a very ambitious contribution to that. i say very ambitious because, for the first time, this regulation will open up the single market for products needed by european farmers in the 21st century. the products i am talking about are innovative agro-chemicals produced from organic materials present in by-products and waste. those products have enormous potential to make european agriculture more efficient and sustainable and to create jobs and opportunities for innovative businesses in europe. when organic materials available in europe are recycled, european farmers get an outlet for agricultural by-products that would otherwise have been wasted. european fertiliser manufacturers become much less dependent on imported, scarce raw materials, such as phosphate, from other regions in the world and, in between, a market is created for innovative european recycling operators and technology providers. so this is a win-win for european farmers, fertiliser producers and innovative businesspeople. in terms of a free market for responsible actors, we are trying with the proposed new regulation to free up the market as much as possible for products that can reform the european agro-industry. gone are the days when fertilisers had to comply with narrow definitions set by the legislator, or when they had to be halted at every border between member states for new certification. nowadays, manufacturers have real freedom to adapt their products to farmers’ needs, using a mix of conventional and innovative raw materials. farmers understand their own needs much better than any legislator. that is why we have proposed legislation which keeps farmers’ choices as wide as possible. but this presumes that manufacturers take all responsibility for product safety. spreading products on farmland can pose a risk to health and the environment. known and unknown toxic contaminants can end up in our water, food and animal feed. so we have proposed that all agro-chemicals covered in the legislation must be subject to a chemical safety assessment under the general registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals (reach) legislation. if this proposal is amended, nobody – neither the legislator nor the manufacturer – will be responsible for assessing the safety of using agro-chemicals on land, and crops. that could have dramatic impacts on the environment and on the safety of the food chain, so i urge the european parliament not to water down our proposal on this point. european fertiliser producers are more than able to take on the responsibility that the new market freedom requires and european farmers and citizens have the right to expect. finally, this proposal not only provides new opportunities for the european agro-industry, it also provides you with an opportunity to limit emissions of toxic contaminants to farmland, drinking water and food. i would like to thank you for your general support for this part of our proposal. together, we will raise environmental standards in an area in which europeans are lagging behind the rest of the world. future generations of europeans will have their health better protected. a particular concern for health and the environment is cadmium in phosphate fertilisers. as far back as 1988, a council resolution called for a strategy to reduce cadmium in phosphate fertilisers, and the problem has far from disappeared since then. there are a few marginal scientific differences, but the overall picture is clear: the european environment and people are too exposed to cadmium, and the only remaining major polluter of food in the environment is the phosphate fertilisers industry. so it is time for phosphate fertiliser manufacturers make sure that some of the dirtiest phosphate rock is cleaned before it is used in fertilisers, or for them to replace it with cleaner recycled phosphates sourced from europe. and they can do that. the market is already developing and we are ready to support it further. please remember that the limit values will also apply to imported phosphate fertilisers sold in the single market with the ce mark. this gives the european industry a golden opportunity to lead the world, not only as manufacturers of clean fertilisers with access to the single market, but also as technology providers to importers. so the industry should work with us, not against us. it is in their interest. it will help them to get a competitive advantage by developing clean technologies in innovative ways. to conclude my opening remarks, let me thank you again for your support. i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i welcome this legislation, which is part of the circular economy package, because it proposes organic and recycled fertilisers, thus reducing inorganic raw material. in addition, harmonized environmental and food safety criteria are established to promote trade in these products. all of that is very good and very commendable. these are great objectives and we must pursue them, but sometimes the end does not justify the means, especially if the means available are not feasible or economically and practically acceptable to the sectors which have to take them on and apply them. favouring the expansion of organic matter is very positive. however, we cannot pretend to substitute mineral products, at least not until we are sure that they provide the same level and efficiency in terms of soil fertilization. it should not be forgotten that fertilisers are essential and ensure that farmers get enough nutrients for their crops. moreover, although it is important to promote the use of manure as organic fertilisers, i do not think this is the regulation to try, as it would directly affect the nitrates directive. i would also like to refer, of course, to the maximum cadmium content. the limits on cadmium have been the subject of much debate and have a great deal to do with the competitiveness of industry and agriculture, as well as other geopolitical connotations, as has just been said here. i think the limits proposed by the commission are too narrow. i would even say that they are unacceptable and that the proposal should be made more flexible: 80 milligrams, as the scientific reports indicate, would be a reasonable figure, especially as we now have no limit. in any case, we must push this regulation to support industry to make it more sustainable and more competitive and to promote sustainable economic growth and employment. but if we go too far on some issues, we'll have to vote against it.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, in the field of fertilisers and in the context of the circular economy, we believe that we must work to reduce the use of chemical fertilisers, develop agro-ecology and promote a greater interrelation between livestock and agriculture, increase the use of manure and encourage composting on farms themselves, so that farmers are less and less dependent on external production factors and to avoid a greater environmental impact and contribute to the fight against climate change. this also means lowering production costs, the consumption of fossil fuels and the risk of releasing substances harmful to the environment and to human and animal health. as regards phosphate rock, one of the main raw materials for fertilisers imported into the european union, it must be said that it comes mainly from morocco, from the deposits in the occupied territories in western sahara. this rock also has high levels of cadmium, which accumulates in the soil and water and enters the food chain, causing health and environmental problems. we believe that the european institutions must guarantee the sovereignty of the people of the sahara over their resources, prevent them from being plundered by morocco and not give in to external pressure to set the permissible levels of cadmium in fertilisers. we believe that it is necessary to put an end to the import of substances for the manufacture of fertilisers. and sewage sludge should not be allowed in fertilisers. we believe that the ce marking should be reserved exclusively for products from the european union. the labelling shall be clear, transparent and easily understandable. the labels shall be written in all the official languages of the member states. the precautionary principle must always be ensured in the conformity assessment procedure. to that end, conformity assessment bodies should be public and based on independent, transparent and publicly available studies and assessments and be continuously updated. only in this way can we ensure that no ce marked fertilisers are being marketed which present a risk to human, animal or plant health or the environment.
mr president, i have to say... we're focusing too much on cadmium: it's a very important element, but it's not the only one. this is a regulation which is going to amend another regulation, fourteen years later, and it is also part of the circular economy package, which is very important. it is the regulation that was pending within the circular economy and that will regulate the internal market and will produce a harmonisation, for the first time for the first time, in the use of fertilisers. a partial harmonization, it is true, but very, very important. it will also set conditions for the marketing of products and provide for greater safety in the use of products. i mean, fertilisers are essential for agricultural production, but we need fertilisers that are really useful and therefore have been shown to be effective and agronomically efficient. this is very important because for the first time this regulation incorporates many new fertilisers: organic fertilisers and mineral or inorganic fertilisers. more than 50% is now outside the regulations. well, these organic fertilisers are very important in the circular economy, but if we pass a regulation on organic fertilisers which are not efficient or have no agronomic efficiency, they are not useful for farmers and we will also be polluting. so let's be practical about this. cadmium is a substantive element. we all agree on limiting the cadmium content, but let's go as far as possible. i think the commission has gone much further, and this is not useful, this is not useful for everyone. i also do not agree with the opening of the nitrates directive, which for my group - as mr tarabella has said - is an important issue, and we are not going to allow it, at least with our vote.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to reach a satisfactory agreement which will allow fertilisers to be viable on the european market, but without reducing the quality of products for farmers, because they are essential products for continuing to produce food at a reasonable price within the union. organic fertilisers, while potentially a long-term solution, have not yet been shown to be a viable option offering the same standards of performance as mineral fertilisers in terms of their nutrient composition. it is very important to reach a solution to the cadmium limits that does not stifle mineral fertilizer producers or increase our dependence on imports from third countries such as russia and that has, at the same time, consideration for public health. i would like to stress that not all soils in europe are the same and that not all soils absorb cadmium in the same way, which is unfortunately not being taken into account in these negotiations, in which political figures are being shuffled without any scientific basis. i would like to thank mrs gardini here for her great efforts in a very difficult matter. and i certainly welcome the amendment proposed by the european people's group after weighing all the interests at stake. i think that this is a balanced amendment which does not meet anyone's highest aspirations, but it is a way of finding a compromise. i regret the way i am addressing you in the chamber, and i am particularly sorry that the interpreters have to listen to me like this, but i am ill.
the rapporteur. mr president according to the latest european drug report 2017, presented by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, overdose deaths have increased considerably due to a lack of knowledge about the dangers of these new psychotropic substances. in 2015, there were a total of 8 441 overdose deaths among the 28 eu member states plus norway and turkey, mostly related to heroin and other drugs. the most widely used illicit stimulant drugs in europe are cocaine, ecstasy and amphetamines. in my country, spain, a total of 455 drug-induced deaths were recorded in 2015 15 per million inhabitants, compared to the eu average of 21.3 per million citizens. apart from the conventional drugs already mentioned - such as cocaine and heroin - the use of new psychotropic substances is increasing every year. in june this year, commissioner avramopoulos expressed concern about young people being exposed to new and dangerous substances. these new psychoactive substances that are legal, also known as designer drugs, are a group of synthetic or semi-synthetic chemical compounds that are produced in industrial laboratories, most of them in china or india, and are circulating in a legal market. the popularity of these substances has been increasing in europe and the rest of the world due to their availability on the internet and their easy sale in shops. each year, many young people - particularly men - die from taking new psychotropic substances. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in lisbon detected 540 new psychotropic drugs in the union last year, and the trend continues to increase each year. the growth of internet sales of these types of drugs and the ease of their manufacture have made it more difficult for the european union to stop their production. the 2014 framework decision was no longer effective and therefore a new legislative instrument was needed. the commission drew up a new regulation in 2013 - mr boni is the rapporteur for the report on that regulation - and, as a consequence, a new directive to overcome this legal challenge. almost five years later, we've finally reached an agreement. the aim of the legislative package is to reduce the availability of new psychotropic substances that present risks, which will be achieved through faster and more effective action at union level compared to the instrument we had in 2005, which did not include information exchange, early warning, risk assessment or control of new psychotropic substances. the directive aimed in particular to amend framework decision 757/2004 in order to be able to criminalise new psychotropic substances. from now on, member states can take the necessary measures to ensure that those who manufacture, produce and distribute 'this designer drug' are punished with maximum sentences of five to ten years' imprisonment. i have to remind you that this directive does not penalise the consumption of this drug, but the trafficking of it. these two instruments - directive and regulation - have come a long way. parliament approved the proposal in 2014 but, to date, we have not been able to find a satisfactory compromise. both reports are a success, because we have reached an agreement that will help all european citizens. finally, i would like to thank the maltese presidency for its excellent work in finding a balance between parliament and the council. i would also like to thank the commission for its supporting role during all the meetings of the tripartite dialogues. finally, i would like to express my gratitude to mr boni for the fruitful cooperation we have had.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to congratulate first of all mrs jiménez-becerril on her work, and also mr boni, the commission and all those who have spoken before me, because i agree with everything they have said. in fact, it is a matter of repeating the discussion on the detection of so many psychotropic substances that we have, on the one hand, to deal with, evaluate and prevent them from being on the market, although part of what we have to do is to educate. in the 1980's i saw several young people in my neighborhood become schizophrenic or have psychotic attacks from the psychotropic drugs that existed at the time and how others died after their addiction to heroin. there's a part of what we have to do that is reflective and a part that we have to do that, of course, has to do with education, because the numbers we're talking about are not numbers, they're people: broken lives, school dropouts, family and social tragedies, severe intoxications, health complications -- as i said -- mental or physical, and also the deaths of teenagers who are almost children. so the case for more effective and more proportionate detection and alerting action on these substances is absolutely necessary. we in the liberal group consider it very timely that the early warning mechanism for this type of new substance has been revised, given the rapid development we are talking about and the increasing danger for children - practically adolescents, almost children - who have the possibility of obtaining these drugs on the internet, with great accessibility, without knowing the risks and dangers. we believe that europol should cooperate more closely with the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and the european medicines agency. we must be united in this because the problem is beyond national capabilities and we must help to overcome fragmentation, obstacles and legal uncertainties. we have been waiting since 2013 for this package of measures, so we hope that there will be no more delays and that we can contribute a lot, fighting very little and never again for the interpretation of competitive trifles between the institutions. we need this legislation.
member of the commission. – mr president, once again i would like to express my thanks to the european parliament, and in particular to our two rapporteurs for their constructive work over the past year on this very important topic. as has been said today, we need a strong response to the phenomenon of the number of new drugs being detected at eu level. we need – and, again it is something we will work on – swift, strong action to protect europeans, in particular our youth and those who are vulnerable in our societies, from the extremely dangerous threat of harmful new psychoactive substances. the proposed eu legislation will improve the speed of our action against these substances, enabling us to act even within weeks in the case of an immediate risk to public health. it also ensures that an effective process for exchange of information is in place, and that our european drugs agency has the competences and the resources to provide the relevant expert advice. a long process in parliament and in the council is coming to a successful end, but the fight against drugs does not end here. we have a lot of work ahead. we have taken some important steps but there is still much to do: firstly to protect our youth, as i have said, and also to support the victims and to prosecute the criminals. the commission and i, personally, will stand by our member states in tackling this sensitive issue. i count on your support and i am looking forward to an overwhelming majority for this important package in tomorrow’s vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, from here today we are sending a clear message about the need to criminalize new psychotropic drugs because i think that 540 new drugs a year are not something we should underestimate, because the lives of our young people are at risk and it is our duty as legislators not to continue ignoring this very serious threat. we cannot continue in this legal limbo that we have been in until now. i think it is a shame that we have been dealing with this for five years; i think we should have done it much faster. finally, as i have already said, and thanks to the maltese presidency, we have speeded up the procedure, but it has cost us blood, sweat and tears. i think our youth and the threat and the risk that these new psychotropic drugs pose to young people needed a lot more agility. so, thanks to all the members, i think we have seen here that we are all in the same boat. i think it is necessary to criminalise these drugs because, although there has also been talk of not criminalising them, i think not, i think the problem with these drugs is ignorance about their dangers - our young people do not know, because there is no information about this - when they start to be penalized, the way for criminals will become much more difficult, as the commissioner has said. i think we need to be faster than them. so we have taken a big step today, but we are certainly going to take many more, and i want to thank mr boni, the commissioner, my assistants, the advisers and all those who have worked over the last five years to ensure that the outcome of this vote tomorrow is favourable. i'm sure it will, because that's what we've seen here today.
mr president, i have to say... i want to support the adoption of a european framework which sets the conditions for a minimum income at european level and which encourages the states to understand that this expenditure is an investment. it is the best known response, after decent and quality employment, to rescue people from marginalization, to avoid the terrible personal consequences of unemployment, to provide a solid platform for their reintegration into employment and to combat poverty. the data speak for themselves: in the basque country we believe in social europe. we have made a sustained and intense effort. the insertion income that works in the basque country, which does not reach 5% of the state population, serves 20% of the recipients and represents almost 40% of the money spent on this concept in the state. the risk of poverty in our country is less than 9%, compared with 22.3% in our member state, and the mechanisms of integration also have a decisive influence on our unemployment rates, which are also the lowest in the state. this is the way.
mr president, we have worked long and hard to make this report and for that i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague laura agea. but we have worked hard to ask for a consensus, to ask the european commission for a directive on minimum incomes. in short, a proposal that fills the gaps we have discovered in our social model, in our welfare state, following the severity of the economic crisis. we must create a new system to protect those who, after more than two years of unemployment, lose their benefit and thus remain on the backs of the crisis, remain in the percentages of people at risk of social exclusion. we want a directive which obliges the member states to create this system of minimum incomes; which obliges them to give an amount above 60% of the disposable income of the families of each member state; which also incorporates policies of employment integration and, therefore, which makes, from the initiative, from the policy, a fairer and more decent society for the vast majority of citizens who expect from this europe something more than regrets and something more than percentages, in this case of people living on the poverty line.
mr president, ensuring that people have access to safe drinking water means taking action against the risks and threats of water pollution. today i would like to call the attention of the european commission to the need to open an independent inquiry into the hazardous waste being buried in the old touro mine to determine whether it is being treated correctly and thus prevent pollution of the waters of the ulla and arousa rivers. photos like these show and raise suspicions that possibly the waste that is being buried in this old mine is not being properly treated. i would also like to draw attention to the danger glyphosate poses to water and urge the european commission to ban this herbicide once and for all.
mr president, i have to say... i speak today to express disgust and astonishment. i refuse. the spanish government is pursuing its anti-catalan campaign along paths that may coincide with hate crime, not only by denouncing and imprisoning social leaders with clean, peaceful, exemplary careers, but also by announcing that it will completely eliminate the autonomy of catalonia. the government may disagree with the separatist project, but it cannot, if it is democratic, overrule the decisions of the catalan citizens who, democratically and by an absolute majority, have elected their parliamentarians and their government. only those who are inspired by authoritarian and dictatorial principles eliminate democracy. after franco, it's the first time it's happened in spain. and the stun. how can a democratic europe approve of authoritarian methods in spain when it rightly denounces them in other countries? i am a member of the european parliament and i am ashamed that my parliament has not yet taken a firm stand in the face of such indignity. is that dialogue? is that what europe wants? i am working for a different europe; the one i see now, i like less and less every day.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the serious discrimination suffered by the region of extremadura as a result of the planned closure of the high-capacity and electrified railway line. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the single market is not a one-way street. i would also like to stress the need to set in motion - and this requires the commission's sensitivity - for asturias, galicia and castile and león the rail link between the seaports of vigo, la coruña, gijón and avilés, in order to be able to complete a communications loop in the whole of north-west spain. in recent years we have made great progress in infrastructure, but we need much more.
mr president, i have to say... today is the seventh night of jordi sánchez and jordi cuixart in prison: seven days and seven nights deprived of their freedom, accused of something they have not done. political prisoners in the european union of the 21st century, because they are not in prison for what they have done, but for what they represent and what they think, and meanwhile, corrupt elites are running amok. if truth and justice mattered, you'd be free. but how can the truth matter if even the spanish foreign minister claims, with all the brazenness of the world, that many of the images of police violence on 1 october are false? all they care about is punishing a country that has dared to vote, that has dared to exercise the right to self-determination despite the defeats. and if, in order to punish, they have to endanger democracy and shape the rule of law as they see fit, no problem: they do so calmly, protected as they are by their state nationalism. and does europe care about the truth? do you care about fundamental rights or do you only care about distant countries and distant situations? (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i think we can all agree that the situation in catalonia is important, but i fear that the european union is making a series of mistakes in this regard. one of them. at the last european council the question was not on the agenda. the idea that this is an internal matter is still being defended, and it is forgotten that it is an internal matter of the european union. catalonia is not, as they say. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. two of them. the commission welcomes the spanish government's move to supplant democracy in catalonia and run it from madrid as if catalonia were a colony. you pretend to be a democracy and they applaud you. how is that possible? - i got three. as presidents of the council, the commission and the parliament, all three have received the princess of asturias prize in spain. after listening to their speeches of thanks, it is understood that they have given the prize, but it is not understood that they have given it to the concord, what concord? - four of them. as a member of the european parliament, i feel unprotected by the president of my parliament and regret that he is not chairing. he, like the king of spain, has abandoned his role as an impartial mediator. the president would have to speak and mediate with all the members of the various parties, not just the spanish. it is a pity that some of us feel so far from him and it is unacceptable. for all these reasons and for many more, you should not be surprised if the catalan people, who are traditionally pro-european, begin to have serious doubts about the europe you preside over. is this the europe that cares about citizens, diversity and democracy? it certainly doesn't look like it. democracy must be at the service of the people to make way for more democracy without suppressing it or beating it or imprisoning it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – first, the european union is concerned about all member states, and it discusses events in hungary and in poland first, not just those in spain. second, the spanish constitution has been interpreted in the way the spanish government has said, but over 600 experts have said that having a referendum in spain is allowed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament. listening to the commission spokesman, mr margaritis, yesterday, it would seem that you are taking the catalan question for granted: 155 applies and nothing has happened here. nothing could be further from the truth: we are three days away from a real disaster. the intervention of the generalitat means the intervention of an institution re-established before the promulgation of the 1978 constitution and will lead us into a political and social crisis of enormous dimensions and, moreover, this will be added to the detentions of two people from catalan civil society, which are two unjust and arbitrary detentions. and on the other hand, we are still dealing with a possible unilateral declaration of independence, which does not generate consensus in catalan society and which is also a very serious mistake. we are three days away from disaster, and i tell you that there are many citizens in catalonia who are anxious and waiting for an answer. if our leaders are unable to talk, to talk and to reach some consensus establishing a negotiated solution, the citizens of catalonia expect a response from the president of the council, from their council and from their european commission.
madam president, i have to ask you. thank you for your calendar, mr. tusk. europe was built on politics and ambition, and only with politics and ambition can we have a secure future. sixty years after the signing of the treaties of rome, we europeans are still different, but now we are the same. we have learned to live and coexist under the same laws, with the same rights and even with the same currency. we have learned to call ourselves citizens rather than enemies; we have learned to listen to one another rather than accuse one another; and we have learned to build bridges rather than walls. it's okay to admit that we did it right. however, today - and this is politics as it was a hundred years ago - we have to face the specter of nationalism, which poisons everything, as is happening today in my country, spain. today, as a hundred years ago, there are foolish politicians who are able to put their citizens at risk for sovereignty and ethnic supremacy. today, as a hundred years ago, we are again hearing about new frontiers, new cultural segregation and new linguistic divisions. from new nations. that is why today, as in '56, we must remember that europe's prosperity and well-being depend on peace and security, but that there can be no peace and security without laws and the rule of law; that democracy is only true when all citizens can vote and that institutions, however legitimate, are not an end in themselves: they are there to serve the citizens. we are fighting for the europe of integration and the euro, the erasmus programme, the schengen area, the 24 languages of this parliament and the europe which leads the world in social spending. since man has existed, no one has had the quality of life enjoyed by europeans in the 21st century. we must build that europe, we must continue to build that europe, so that the future does not become a dream that has not been fulfilled. if we are not aware of the danger of nationalpopulism, there will be no mistake of the past that we will not make again. the future of europe is more european union and not more nationalism.
madam president, i have to ask you. today no one can deny that europe is facing great difficulties and also threats, threats such as selfishness and lack of solidarity. the lack of solidarity with those outside, with those who are knocking at the doors of europe fleeing hunger, fleeing wars and are faced with a part of europe that does not understand that common measures are needed to deal with these challenges, the challenges of immigration and refugees. but there is also selfishness and a lack of solidarity within the european union itself, because today in europe there are those who take advantage of the social fractures created to raise borders, to attack the fundamental principles of the european union, of solidarity, of cooperation. and in the face of that, there's only one position. there is only one position against those who want to lift borders - and above any other differences - and that is the defence of the democratic, social and rule of law state. that is the position that the european union and those of us who support this project must take.
madam president, this is vice president timmermans. i listened with attention and concern to the debate on the council conclusions on migration, because everywhere there is a rejection of migration under the stigma of its irregularity, and above all an obsession with the return of irregular migrants, which even goes so far as to encourage enhanced cooperation with libya, ignoring that it is a non-existent state and that it is the starting point of a tragedy towards the mediterranean and the arrival point of a tragedy not in the least in the desert that leads to the illicit trafficking of people. and all this in a continued suspension of schengen, and without any reference either to refugees or to the legal channels and channels which are still necessary, linked to the resettlement policy, but above all with the introduction of humanitarian visas. schengen still suspended, without a day, extending it until the year 2020? there will be no europe that the citizens can appreciate and reward with their vote if there is no defence of the free movement of persons and of social europe, which is conspicuously absent from these council conclusions. and the citizens will vote in the year 2019. we're keeping an eye on him.
mr president, i have to say... as mr verhofstadt has said, the moment of truth has come. we are building a new reality which requires a thorough review of the political concepts and forms of organisation which we must overcome if we want europe to be a home for all. the ecsc seemed utopian, but it ended the danger of returning to the bayonets. let us not forget this, because today national egoisms are coming back, they are giving way to increasingly stale concepts about identity, nation and sovereignty, about citizen participation that block solutions from above and below. we need another institutional structure to stimulate the union of the energy market, to put an end to internal social dumping or to organise the reception of refugees. we need more european values in the face of brexit or a problem like catalonia. if we believe in the slogan 'united in diversity', is it better to have a military intervention on european soil, because the spanish constitution authorises it, or to help solve a political problem by talking? how do you add to that diversity without solving your own? these are the questions to which you too, mr timmermans, must give an answer.
mr president, i have to say... i think we should welcome this report, and i voted in favour of it because a minimum income system in all the countries of the union is a basic tool, a tool of any welfare state, of welfare and of an advanced democratic society. it is time, and there was a lack of a position in this house on this subject which would allow for better coordination. as the report itself acknowledges, poverty and social exclusion are not individual problems, they are social problems, collective problems, which must be tackled collectively. minimum income is a tool to fight poverty and build more just and equal societies, but a tool, too, that benefits society as a whole. for the economy to work, people have to have the capacity to consume: it's that simple. the wheel has to turn or it will stop for everyone. in my country, last month, the governing people's party tabled an amendment to the whole of a popular legislative initiative to set a minimum income benefit at 426 euros. we hope that europe's voice will be heard, not only when it serves as an excuse for cuts and dismantling our public services, but also when it sends a clear message, as it does today with this report.
mr president, mr vice-president, when you look back at 2014, you see how part of the commission's initial programme has been altered by the succession of crises that have shaken the european union: low growth and high unemployment, debt crises, immigration and refugees, terrorism and insecurity. today it seems that some of these clouds are disappearing and the horizon is somewhat brighter; that is why the commission is putting forward proposals for the future, and in these proposals for the future there is a common link: security. but nothing offers citizens more security than a robust social protection system. so the proposal he has put forward for us on the social pillar sounds good, the music is good. it must be accompanied by the letter, but above all it must be implemented at a pace that is intense enough so that, before the next elections, citizens can see that europe is thinking of them and protecting them.
in writing. the programme reflects the content of jean-claude juncker's state of the union address and the letter of intent sent by the commission to parliament. it sets out an agenda for a more united, stronger and more democratic europe. with a limited number of new proposals, they will deliver in may 2018 so that legislative work in the ep and in the council can be completed before the elections. the commission has already submitted more than 80% of the necessary proposals under the 10 priorities set by juncker in 2014. they will now focus on outstanding proposals to boost jobs, growth and investment, to create a deeper and fairer internal market with a strengthened industrial base, and on further specific measures to complete the security union. the second approach of the work programme is more forward-looking and aims to shape the union up to 2025. three principles which must always be the anchor of the union: freedom, equality and the rule of law. a more united union will require the full opening of the schengen area to romania and bulgaria, as well as an enlargement perspective for the candidate countries in the western balkans.
in writing. the programme reflects the content of jean-claude juncker's state of the union address and the letter of intent sent by the commission to parliament. it sets out an agenda for a more united, stronger and more democratic europe. with a limited number of new proposals, they will deliver in may 2018 so that legislative work in the ep and in the council can be completed before the elections. the commission has already submitted more than 80% of the necessary proposals under the 10 priorities set by juncker in 2014. they will now focus on outstanding proposals to boost jobs, growth and investment, to create a deeper and fairer internal market with a strengthened industrial base, and on further specific measures to complete the security union. the second approach of the work programme is more forward-looking and aims to shape the union up to 2025. three principles which must always be the anchor of the union: freedom, equality and the rule of law. a more united union will require the full opening of the schengen area to romania and bulgaria, as well as an enlargement perspective for the candidate countries in the western balkans.
mr. president, despite the proposed budget increase for 2018, we're still not up to par. in this budget we are sacrificing migration and asylum funds in favour of a nefarious policy of immigration control which is disguised as development cooperation but which is a policy unworthy of the name. as regards investment, you are sticking to your juncker plan, financing private investments which were probably going to be made anyway, and when you decide to invest, as with the connecting europe facility, you do so in large fossil energy infrastructures, that is, more and more gas pipelines. without resources, your honours, there is no real policy. for example, without investment, after youth employment schemes, there will be no new youth employment. without proper investment, we will continue to have a harmful and job-destroying production model. what is needed is a public investment plan for europe. these budgets only serve to pollute the atmosphere, fatten the bills of the big energy companies and feed the false ghosts of immigration. europe does not need more or less speed, but what it needs is a different direction.
mr president, as we are approaching the final period of the current multiannual financial framework (mff), we would like to see a budget that finally gets closer to our priorities in terms of eu policies which are: full and higher-quality employment, solidarity towards poorer territories, but also to those citizens that have to endure harsher economic and social conditions across the eu, commitment towards sustainability of our planet, and tackling real sources of instability and inequalities across the world. therefore, we basically support the deal reached in the committee on budgets, according to which we reinforce programmes such as cosme, horizon 2020, erasmus+, or the youth employment initiative, as well as climate related programmes like life +, further measures on migration and refugees, and so on. i hope that parliament’s position, which is a bare minimum to us, to our group, will not be yielded during conciliation and i thank the rapporteurs for their work.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, yes, this year 2017, the court of auditors has offered us the possibility of a non-negative final sdr. in the case of the council, however, and despite the efforts of mr staes and mrs gräßle, it will be the eighth year that we refuse and nothing happens. however, as we are optimistic, we believe that at this stage there are small steps, but that they are significant. as has been said, there is a new secretary-general with a mandate until 2020, mr tranholm-mikkelsen, in the council, who already in 2012 made the greatest efforts at the head of the danish presidency in the case of the 2010 discharge. there is also a mandate from the conference of presidents to a parliamentary working party - of this parliament - which must be able to rebuild the trust and cooperation between the institutions, which are so essential for greater transparency. and there are some moves towards rapprochement which have been achieved as part of the annual activity reports of parts of the council 'directorates-general'. it is true that these are small steps, but they are necessary to restore confidence and who knows whether we will one day, in the end, have clear guidelines for this discharge in the interinstitutional agreement.
president of the council. i can only promise that i will take this message to my colleagues in the council. that's the only thing i can absolutely promise right now. in addition to that strange language, i wish to it make it very clear and to reiterate that at this current point the council stands behind its interpretation of article 319.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, today’s debate has been triggered by the horrific assassination of ms daphne caruana galizia. first of all, i wish to express my sincere condolences to her family, friends and colleagues. the circumstances of the death of ms caruana galizia have rendered us speechless, but this debate shows that we shall not remain silent. we strongly condemn this barbaric crime. the perpetrators must be brought to justice. the mission of journalists requires personal devotion and courage, and those who have these qualities deserve our deepest respect and protection. media freedom is an indispensable pillar of our democratic societies. journalists are the guardians of properly functioning democracies. where there is no freedom of speech and people have to fear for their life every time they criticise something, there is no democracy. for this reason freedom of expression, media freedom and pluralism are guaranteed in the eu charter of fundamental rights. they are among the core basic democratic values on which the european union is founded. these freedoms are an obligation for our governments. it is an absolute priority for all democracies to protect journalists also from financial or political pressure. the importance of media pluralism as a prerequisite of the rule of law and democracy was underlined by the council in its annual rule of law dialogue last week. let me be clear: attacks on media representatives to silence their voices are unacceptable everywhere in the world. if they occur, we have to act immediately: condemn the crime, find and punish the perpetrators and re-establish the confidence of our citizens in the functioning of our democratic institutions. i am convinced that we are all aware of the responsibility of our governments for the protection of journalists and the defence of media freedom. we commend and trust in the maltese authorities in ensuring that justice is delivered. as the presidency, we would like to join other member states, which offered help to the maltese authorities in the investigation of this appalling crime. we owe this to the memory of ms caruana galizia and to all journalists serving our societies.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, a renowned and brave journalist died in the most brutal and shocking manner in malta last week. a wife, a mother, a mother-in-law, a friend, a neighbour, a colleague. daphne caruana galizia appears to have been killed because someone wanted to stop her from reporting. and it happened right here, in the european union! let me first express my deepest condolences to her family and loved ones. your loss, i cannot imagine. i did not have the privilege to know daphne personally but a few things stand out – her courage and doggedness in the pursuit of the truth, her readiness to ask the questions that really matter about politicians of all colours. the very heart of democracy is that those who the people choose to lead them are also accountable to them. journalists such as daphne represent us all when they ask the difficult questions and when they keep digging even if it becomes uncomfortable and dangerous to find the truth. when i attended the spontaneous vigil last wednesday in brussels, when i stood here in silence with you earlier today in the presence of daphne’s family, to whom i have had the chance to express my condolences in person this morning, my deep concerns about what this tragic event represents in terms of our democratic values were dwarfed by the immediate human tragedy: the three sons and a daughter-in-law suddenly and violently losing a mother, and a husband prematurely and painfully losing his beloved wife. at the european council last week and again this morning, president tajani made a strong call for a detailed in-depth international investigation. on behalf of president juncker and all my colleagues in the college, i can say that the commission very much agrees that ensuring an independent and thorough investigation of the facts and bringing those responsible to justice must be the top priority for now. prime minister muscat gave such an assurance to his fellow leaders on thursday and the eyes of europe and the world are now on malta to ensure this is the case. i welcome the fact that the maltese authorities have engaged with their counterparts in europe and beyond, including forensics experts from the netherlands, the united kingdom and the united states, and wherever useful, europol and eurojust are there to help. we know that good journalism can be a dangerous job. last year 72 journalists were killed worldwide and more than 50 others have died so far this year. but the targeted and brutal manner of daphne’s killing and the fact that it happened here on the soil of one of our member states profoundly shocks. even here in europe, too many journalists are threatened every day. the campaign ‘mapping media freedom’ has already reported more than 300 alerts of threats to journalistic freedom in the eu since the beginning of the year and more than 3 000 since the beginning of the project. i pay tribute to all those who have stood up and asked the tough questions. since – and i say this as a politician and democrat among politicians and democrats – since professional journalism is a necessary job because it ensures that all of us who are entrusted with certain responsibilities are also scrutinised for how we exercise them, that perhaps matters now more than ever, as we find ourselves in an era where anyone can publish their views online, where facts and fiction are sometimes mixed, where false information is repeated ever louder. i have said before in this house that everyone is entitled to her or his own opinions, but no one is entitled to their own facts. that is what journalists do. they are the human face of stubborn facts. that is their job, their mission. a free media is the watchdog in our democracies. healthy democracy requires a free and pluralistic media, free from state intervention and from undue political or commercial pressures. ed murrow put it well when he said that every healthy democracy needs a good dose of itching pills, and as president juncker said last week, the right of a journalist to investigate, to ask uncomfortable questions and report effectively is at the heart of our values and needs to be guaranteed at all times. under the treaties, the commission has limited powers in this area. we can, however, encourage and guide, which is why last year we chose to devote our annual colloquium on fundamental rights to the theme of media pluralism and democracy. three quarters of respondents to the public consultation covering all our member states in preparation for the colloquium said that they were aware of or have experienced limitations on journalistic activities by state measures, and more than two thirds of respondents said they have experienced or are aware of censorship and self-censorship. such findings are very worrying. if journalists have to fear for their lives just for doing their job, they cannot operate with a level of freedom and independence that is essential for the media in any democracy, in any rule-of-law based society. media freedom and pluralism are fundamental rights enshrined in article 11 of the eu charter on fundamental rights and constitute essential foundations of our democratic societies. it is the duty of the maltese state to investigate and prosecute this case in accordance with its constitution, its legal order and international human rights obligations. the maltese authorities and institutions must deliver on their commitment to do everything in their power to ensure that the perpetrators will be brought to justice. malta needs to show to europe and the world that its rules and regulations are healthy and robust. this is why it is important that the maltese government has indicated that the investigation and prosecution should be allowed to run their full course, that if problems of a more general or systemic nature are brought to light, they should also be addressed, regardless of the consequences. today’s debate proves once more that the eyes of europe stay firmly fixed on malta, because the murder of a brave journalist such as daphne is a direct concern for us all. we will, it is our duty, continue to stand up for our shared values. why? well, for the sake of daphne, her loved ones and everything she stood for, for the sake of the european union and everything it stands for.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president this morning i met daphne caruana's widow and children and then i cried. i wish all the groups had had a chance to hear them. daphne caruana dedicated her entire life to journalism; she raised her voice where others dared not; she confronted governments, politicians, corporations and mafias, no matter how many or how powerful they were. as one of her sons said, she stood between the rule of law and those who wanted to violate it, and that's why they killed her. he died with over 42 open court cases and without even having access to his bank accounts. harassed before they killed her, they made life impossible for her and her family; somehow, they started killing her while she was still alive. they haven't killed rulers, they haven't killed judges, they haven't killed cops. a journalist has been killed. and when in a state the rulers, the judges and the police live happily while journalists are killed, it means that democracy is failing. daphne caruana's disappearance is much more than the tragic murder of a troublesome journalist. it's a message to you. it's a call to silence. it is a direct threat to all those who, like her, practice journalism freely and independently. it's an attack on free speech. there can be no true democracy without a free press. we failed daphne. the european union failed her, and being a citizen of the european union on european soil did not help her. nothing and no one protected her enough, especially the authorities and the government of malta, who should have guaranteed her safety and that of her family. they didn't. sadly, caruana's murder is not an isolated case, nor are the letters that are being received by some media outlets in malta threatening multimillion-dollar litigation for damages. that's also coercion. murders in mexico, murders in india, mass arrests of journalists in turkey; even in the united states the president allows himself to question the patriotism of some journalists. our problem is that malta is at the heart of the european union and it shows us that we, we, are not free from this global threat against journalism. the murder of daphne caruana is a shadow cast on our conscience as proud europeans. the european union cannot therefore remain silent any longer about what is happening in malta. our silence is the victory of daphne's murderers and the defeat of democratic institutions. that is why my group has asked the european commission to ensure a fully independent judicial inquiry. we want to know who did it. we want to know why he did it. and we want to know who's protecting him and that they all go to jail. and i call on the commission to investigate urgently the state of the rule of law in malta. as daphne reminded us in her last words, the situation is desperate. we all, including the commission, must ask ourselves whether we have done enough. ladies and gentlemen, just yesterday, another journalist was stabbed to death at a radio station in russia. russian journalists tell the world: no one defends us. well, we didn't defend daphne, and therefore her children, and with my heart in my hand in this room, i apologize to them and say to them, i wish i could assure them that it will never happen again, that their mother will be the last! but i can't. we have to fight for freedom of expression every minute, every hour, every day and in every country in the world, knowing that the fight will be to the death and that it will never end. without good journalism and good journalists, no democracy is complete. that is why european democracy will always miss daphne. their fight never ends.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, first of all, as it could not be otherwise: from our group we want to show our full solidarity and our brotherly embrace to daphne's family and to her loved ones; but also to give that embrace to all the daphnes in the world who are still persecuted. ladies and gentlemen, it should be remembered that tax havens within the european union are a dark thread that links tax fraud with the networks of crime, corruption and the persecution of journalists and leakers. the case of daphne caruana is a dramatic example of the complicity between the interests of criminal networks and oligarchs. it should be remembered that commissions of inquiry, such as the panama papers, are made possible by the work of journalists like daphne, who revealed the panama accounts of several maltese ministers. his investigation threatened many interests which are often defended in this house too, such as fiscal opacity, banking secrecy and the free movement of capital. we believe it is essential to put the rights of whistleblowers above the private interest of companies. we have today adopted a report calling for legislation to protect and cover the whole range of activities of whistleblowers and journalists. we have also asked in the report to be presented by the pana committee for the establishment of a specific agency and channels of communication to protect those who risk their lives to bring to light information which is of benefit to society as a whole. let us hope that all the groups in this house will vote in favour of these measures. and we also want to send a clear message to the commission: to implement as soon as possible what we have approved in this house, ensuring the integrity and rights of whistleblowers and journalists, and thus avoiding by omission becoming complicit in new cases like daphne.
mr president, cancer is the number one cause of death at work in the european union. each year 53% of work-related deaths are attributed to cancer, according to the commission's own figures. we still have limited information on carcinogens and exposure levels. in addition, new risks such as nanomaterials are emerging, which remain to be assessed. despite knowing the link between endocrine disruptors and cancer, the european commission still fails to comply with the judgment of the court of justice of the european union and establish a clear and ambitious regulation of endocrine disruptors. the study does not examine how precarious working conditions - such as job rotation, part-time work with fragmented schedules - make it possible to have multiple exposures to carcinogens and, moreover, these same conditions make it difficult to access prevention services, which are also affected by the reduction of budgets devoted to it. the ilo rules on the mandatory notification of workers exposed to carcinogens are not complied with in many countries, and this is particularly relevant in small firms. and despite this data, we are still making very little progress in establishing regulations that prevent these deaths from happening again. national registers should be set up with data broken down by sex, age and jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. but i would like to stress, in conclusion, that it is also necessary to establish plans and strategies for the reintegration into employment of workers affected by cancer originating at work, since they end up suffering from discrimination at work and, in the worst case, job loss.
mr president, cancer is the leading cause of work-related death, with more than 100 000 deaths in the european union. we must therefore welcome this report and greater regulation to prevent cancer in the workplace. the inclusion of toxic substances for reproduction in this proposal is a step forward, but we must continue to work to protect pregnant workers from the first weeks of pregnancy and to prevent the hormonal imbalances caused by these substances. there are many positive elements in this report. however, ladies and gentlemen, this work of regulating safety and health at work is of little use if the protocols are not followed and applied. this is the case of the forty-nine workers who in december 2012 suffered the most serious mercury poisoning in europe at the asturian zinc factory. an accident riddled with negligence, from risk assessment to protective equipment to medication being given too late. today they suffer serious consequences and are not even getting the medical care they need. they're still fighting and we're here to support them so they can get that medical care. but cases like this can't happen again.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the reality is that roma people continue to suffer discrimination and racism in our countries, discrimination in access to housing, segregation in schools - which in countries such as hungary, bulgaria or slovakia reaches 60% - a higher rate of imprisonment or forced sterilization. these are not isolated cases. anti-gypsyism permeates our society and therefore also our state and european institutions and also the media. here we have the example of spain, where television programmes such as los gipsy kings or mi gran boda gitana (my big gypsy wedding) help to maintain stereotypes and encourage hate speech. this report recognises anti-gypsyism as a systemic form of racism, a recognition that is essential if we are to begin to change the whole approach to policies. it is essential, for example, to put an end to austerity policies and cuts in public services that guarantee equity. we will never achieve equality if the state does not put in place the mechanisms to guarantee it. and in the fight against roma-phobia we should start in this parliament, where too often we have heard stigmatising speeches, even calls for violence, without any subsequent condemnation from this house.
madam president, commissioner, it is true that the roma people - no less than 20 million people in europe - have historically been besieged by the most humiliating stereotypes and have been associated, in a stigmatising discourse, with crime, lack of training or social conflict. and we have had to listen here in this european parliament to the most miserable expressions of that prejudice by some really reprehensible speeches which would have received and deserved immediate parliamentary sanction. but this discourse has contributed to their social exclusion and it is therefore essential to be aware of the extent to which the will to integrate of europeans and their member states needs to be re-launched in order to promote employment and education opportunities and to combat the lack of integration into training, with particular attention to the most vulnerable people - women, children - who therefore suffer from a double deficit of social exclusion. and i would like to thank our colleague, mrs soraya post, for her work, for honouring this european parliament with her commitment to combating anti-gypsyism and all forms of anti-gypsyism.
the rapporteur. - madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the parties involved, especially commissioner avramopoulos, the maltese presidency, all the alternative rapporteurs and also the legal services. the european commission launched its final legislative proposal in april 2016, after the ground was set in 2013 in complementary areas of study, pilot projects, budget projections and studies of different alternatives, such as biometric data or system architecture. the legislative task is being tackled because technical gaps have been identified in the management of the union's external borders. at present, external borders are controlled by border guards who check the authenticity of passports and visas for those third-country nationals who want to enter the european union for 90 days in any 180-day period, but there is no procedure to control those who, after the authorized period has expired, remain on european territory irregularly. our regulation thus establishes a centralised management and control system, through which the authenticity of third-country nationals' travel documents is verified by recording alphanumeric data, biometric data and information on the date, time and place of entry and exit. a calculator is also created for the actual calculation of the 90 days allowed. as regards the objectives of the regulation, they are twofold: firstly, to improve the management of the external borders and to prevent irregular immigration and facilitate the management of migratory flows; and secondly, to contribute to the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. this second objective is also crucial, as it will help to detect criminals with multiple false identities, as was the case with the terrorist who attacked the christmas market in berlin, who had entered and left our borders with fifteen different identities. but access to information on entries and exits by the police authorities of the member states and europol will be under strictly defined conditions. this is essential because the interinstitutional agreement ensures full respect for human rights, such as those relating to privacy, the protection of personal data and the principles of necessity, proportionality and legality. in order to ensure this, the european data protection supervisor shall be responsible for monitoring the data processing activities of the system. in addition, the central access point is created, which is the technical support of the eu-lisa agency its responsible, under the supervision of the european data protection supervisor. and, in addition, there will be a website where passengers can check their period of stay. the retention period shall be three years for bona fide passengers and five years for those who have exceeded the legal period of stay. i would also like to highlight the territorial scope of the system, which is the external borders of the member states applying the schengen acquis and also those countries which, although not applying it, have passed the evaluation. i am referring specifically to bulgaria and romania: this parliament has advocated from the outset the need to include these two countries. and i would point out that, of course, as soon as possible, croatia will also be included. this required giving passive access to the vis to bulgaria and romania, and was voted by an overwhelming majority in the last plenary. interoperability between the ees and the vis is also necessary, ladies and gentlemen, so that the system can verify that the visa with which you are trying to enter the european union is a legal and authentic visa. after three years of use of the system, the commission shall make an assessment of its use. finally, i would like to stress that the regulation will enter into force in 2020 and, in order to reach that date, many procedures are necessary which from the point of view of implementation must be fulfilled - we are talking about tenders, contracts, programme development, tests, etc. in conclusion, i think it is essential that we approve the entry/exit system today and not later. why would you do that? because it will improve the identification and authenticity of travel documents and therefore make it easier to identify criminals with false identities; it will replace the stamp; we will know in real time who has been staying at our borders irregularly; we will better protect freedom of transit in the schengen area; it will improve the facilitation of entry and exit - that is, fewer queues - and it will contribute to more protection and better management of the union's external borders. in conclusion, it will be faster and safer to enter.
madam president, in view of the recent serious errors in the exchange of information on third-country nationals travelling to the schengen area, the entry/exit system is an important instrument for improving the protection of the external borders and contributing to the prevention and investigation of terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. the entry/exit system will replace the traditional passport stamping system with one adapted to the use of new technologies. it shall also retain personal data of third-country nationals travelling to the union on a short-stay visa, including facial image and fingerprints. during the retention period of personal data, law enforcement agencies will have access to that information, provided that certain established criteria are met. the report is therefore a positive outcome, the result of consensus and the need to strengthen border controls in the current context of the fight against terrorism.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions to this debate and their comments. our external border management is the nexus of our policy on security and migration and the european union is implementing several initiatives in this domain. i therefore welcome the negotiations starting today – indeed now – between this house and the council, and i hope a compromise will be reached soon. the compromise on the entry/exit system will modernise and strengthen the schengen area’s external management. it will help member states to deal with increasing traveller flows without having to increase the number of border guards. it will also promote mobility between the schengen area and third countries in a secure environment, while contributing to the fight against terrorism and serious crime, and safeguarding fundamental rights. i want to be clear on a point that was mentioned earlier. the court of justice opinion on the eu-canada passenger name record (pnr) agreement does not have any direct and binding legal effect on the entry/exit system. the court ruled on a specific legal situation, which cannot be automatically extrapolated to other situations. there are significant differences between pnr and the entry/exit system. the legal basis, the purpose and the scope of data gathered, and the basis and rationale in respect of retention periods are not comparable. i am glad that this long process is now coming to an end and that we can soon start developing the system. i therefore encourage the honourable members to support these important pieces of legislation when they vote later today.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for such a rich debate. the fact that there were 44 interventions gives you an idea of what i mean: i thank all of them. i thank all those who have supported the report, who have supported my work, who have expressed their eloquent silence. in short, everyone has contributed to enriching this debate. i would like to conclude, madam president, by quoting the legal services of the three institutions verbatim, so that it can be clearly and unequivocally stated that there has been no ambiguity in the pronouncements of the three legal services with reference to the judgment of the court of justice in case 1/15 concerning the international convention between the european union and canada on pnr. the report of our interinstitutional legal services says it verbatim: 'judgment 1/15 has no direct or automatic impact on the ees because of many differences between the system and the pnr, in particular in terms of the objectives, the scope and the personal data collected.'
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you for your intervention. according to the european union agency for fundamental rights, about 45 to 55% of european women have experienced harassment at some point in their lives. i'll tell you a few phrases that i'm sure you're familiar with: "he was a secret, he liked to provoke", "but did you notice how he dressed?" these phrases are complicit and aim to de-emphasize behaviours that have their origin in an unequal society, where one party considers and establishes power relations over another. that's where sexual harassment comes in. and unfortunately, this reality is not escaping from any place or space, not even from public institutions, not even from this parliament. we could put a blindfold on our eyes and think that it has nothing to do with us and that there is no need to make any problem of it; or on the contrary, we can give visibility to this situation and try to put solutions on the table. today parliament itself has instruments to respond to such situations, but they are clearly not working, and that is why we are asking in the resolution that they be reinforced, with external advice, to assess how they can be improved and be really helpful to the victims. we must show solidarity and stand with the victims. let them not be ashamed. don't be afraid of losing your jobs. stop feeling guilty for something that only the bully and the aggressor are responsible for. let us therefore put in place the necessary instruments to resolve these situations, so that the shadow of doubt does not fall on everyone, but falls solely and exclusively on the harassers. no more attacks on women's dignity. not an accomplice silence. not a look away. because you are not alone: "me too", "me too".
madam president, first of all, we must express our disgust at the facts reported and really thank all those women who have dared to report it, because it is absolutely essential that this comes to light. this is a widespread phenomenon: 55% of women in the european union report having been victims of sexual harassment; a further 30% report that this harassment has come from colleagues, bosses, work mates... so we are talking about a widespread phenomenon as a result of an insufferable patriarchy. but today i would like to make two observations which have to do with this house. the first is that of all the cases that have appeared in the press - over a hundred in the european institutions - how many have been officially reported in the mechanisms we have in this institution? very few, practically none. we have to find ways for this to be reported. and the second point i want to make, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is also our responsibility, and today, in this debate, in which there will be more than 40 speeches, only five men will be speaking. this can't be! this is also our responsibility, we have to report when we see these situations happening around us. let us also commit ourselves against sexual violence.
madam president, madam commissioner, sexual harassment continues to exist because fear continues to exist, because fear continues to silence the victims. and that silence is the wall that protects the harassers, it's their shield of impunity. victims of sexual harassment are afraid of being singled out, stigmatized, of losing their jobs, of not being believed. but why does a woman have to hold on and shut up? why isn't the stalker afraid? how is it possible that a european law which has been protecting since 2002 and which considers this to be a crime does not sufficiently frighten those who commit this crime? why aren't these criminals afraid? why don't we rigorously enforce the law and our rejection? 55% of women in the union say they have been sexually harassed at some point. if we go to female executives, we go up to 75 percent. this is happening everywhere, in every environment and also here in our house, in parliament. and this is intolerable, and we're not gonna take it anymore. this is a joint effort. the victims who have opened this gap of silence should have all our protection, and all of us here should denounce it and say, of course, yes, "me too".
madam president, at the beginning of the sitting we decided to include this debate as a matter of urgency in the light of the reports in the press which describe this parliament as a hotbed of sexual harassment. it may come as a surprise to some of you, of course, but for most of the women in this institution, we know what we're talking about: it's an open secret. we have to thank the courage of the women who have dared to denounce and all the participants of the campaign #me too, but this is not about making statements today, voting a resolution tomorrow and forgetting about the issue. we therefore call again on the european commission to propose a directive to combat violence against women and on all member states to ratify and implement the istanbul convention. we know that most cases are not reported for fear of social stigma, but above all for fear of losing their jobs. there is a committee in this parliament which deals with complaints of harassment between assistants and members, but the majority of the committee is made up of members, and so it is understandable that victims are afraid to report it. let us not forget that job insecurity is a major factor in the abuse.
madam president, madam commissioner, i think it is very timely that there should be a greater public effort to combat sexual harassment at work, another manifestation of inequality. the greatest institutional contribution must be support for victims and the fight against impunity. subjecting harassers, after a full-fledged trial, to public shame. but without the militant commitment of men and women in their personal lives, without a firm stance on the chain of jokes that offend the victims, without another treatment for the image of women in the media and even in school curriculum, we will continue like this. we need different attitudes, different tools, different daily commitment. there's simply power and domination here. let's encourage empathy, because as long as there are men who are so unconscious as to say between giggles that they would like to suffer sexual harassment because they are so macho, so attractive, so badass - that they ask the few who have suffered it to see what it is like - because as long as shameful reality tv shows continue to make money while supporting stereotypes and domination schemes, we will have the battle lost.
madam speaker, the #metoo campaign, following the hollywood harassment scandal, has brought to light millions of testimonies from women and has made visible something we already knew, that sexual harassment is everywhere and is practiced by close and unknown people of all ages, colors and classes, in everyday situations and not so much, on the street, in public transport, in the workplace or study, in spaces with marked power relations. ladies and gentlemen, sexual harassment may be habitual, it may be common, but it is not normal: it is violence. it must be made visible, it must be punished and it must be eradicated. and, ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame, as this campaign has revealed, as the times and so many other newspapers around the world have reported, that harassment is a regular practice in this parliament. let us set an example, starting with this house. let us guarantee the reporting with guarantees; let us do an in-depth investigation of harassment situations, let us give him a name and a surname and let us be exemplary with the sanctions. they are here, they are among us; they are violent, they are dangerous and they cannot go unpunished.
in writing. in the 21st century, in a society as advanced as the european one, we find that sexual harassment is a common and widespread practice that many women suffer, most of them in silence because they feel ashamed, afraid and do not dare to report the incidents, or even to talk to their closest people. enough of complicit silences and unreasonable doubts, no excuse is valid, harassers must be punished. harassment has its origins in an unequal society, where one party establishes power relations over another. we need a european strategy to combat all forms of violence against women, including sexual harassment and abuse. unfortunately, this reality is not escaped from any place or space, not even from public institutions such as this parliament, which although it has instruments to respond to this type of situation, it is clear that they are not working. so we need outside advice, to assess how these tools can be improved so that they are really helpful to the victims. no more attacks on women's dignity. not an accomplice silence. not a look away. you are not alone: me too, me too.
in writing. in the 21st century, in a society as advanced as the european one, we find that sexual harassment is a common and widespread practice that many women suffer, most of them in silence because they feel ashamed, afraid and do not dare to report the incidents, or even to talk to their closest people. enough of complicit silences and unreasonable doubts, no excuse is valid, harassers must be punished. harassment has its origins in an unequal society, where one party establishes power relations over another. we need a european strategy to combat all forms of violence against women, including sexual harassment and abuse. unfortunately, this reality is not escaped from any place or space, not even from public institutions such as this parliament, which although it has instruments to respond to this type of situation, it is clear that they are not working. so we need outside advice, to assess how these tools can be improved so that they are really helpful to the victims. no more attacks on women's dignity. not an accomplice silence. not a look away. you are not alone: me too, me too.
in writing. in the 21st century, in a society as advanced as the european one, we find that sexual harassment is a common and widespread practice that many women suffer, most of them in silence because they feel ashamed, afraid and do not dare to report the incidents, or even to talk to their closest people. enough of complicit silences and unreasonable doubts, no excuse is valid, harassers must be punished. harassment has its origins in an unequal society, where one party establishes power relations over another. we need a european strategy to combat all forms of violence against women, including sexual harassment and abuse. unfortunately, this reality is not escaped from any place or space, not even from public institutions such as this parliament, which although it has instruments to respond to this type of situation, it is clear that they are not working. so we need outside advice, to assess how these tools can be improved so that they are really helpful to the victims. no more attacks on women's dignity. not an accomplice silence. not a look away. you are not alone: me too, me too.
in writing. in the 21st century, in a society as advanced as the european one, we find that sexual harassment is a common and widespread practice that many women suffer, most of them in silence because they feel ashamed, afraid and do not dare to report the incidents, or even to talk to their closest people. enough of complicit silences and unreasonable doubts, no excuse is valid, harassers must be punished. harassment has its origins in an unequal society, where one party establishes power relations over another. we need a european strategy to combat all forms of violence against women, including sexual harassment and abuse. unfortunately, this reality is not escaped from any place or space, not even from public institutions such as this parliament, which although it has instruments to respond to this type of situation, it is clear that they are not working. so we need outside advice, to assess how these tools can be improved so that they are really helpful to the victims. no more attacks on women's dignity. not an accomplice silence. not a look away. you are not alone: me too, me too.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me congratulate the european parliament on adopting just now the council position on the draft budget for the financial year 2018. from the council perspective i take note of the pertaining differences between the positions of the council and parliament. therefore, in my capacity as a president of the council i would agree that the president of the european parliament convenes the conciliation committee, as required under article 314 (4)(c) of the treaty of the functioning of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, my brief words are not meant to limit or block the right to vote and the right to amend which all the groups in the house have. my word is simply to indicate that those who support the rapporteur and the people's group should vote against this claim for a basic reason. the reason is that we would be breaking an interinstitutional agreement that has taken four years to reach. if only one of these amendments were to be voted for, we would be breaking the interinstitutional agreement. so please vote against that claim.
mr president, i just want to point out that, just as mrs post is presenting this very important report, an exhibition has been put on display about the roma in perpignan, which reproduces all the archetypes and stereotypes that we want to get rid of with reports like mrs post's.
mr president, as every year, we are discussing the budget of the european union and, as every year, i am voting against it again, and the reasons for voting against are piling up. the budget does not meet the objectives of growth and employment, let alone quality employment. it does not help to correct the negative effect of the cuts - the misnamed 'austerity' - and it does not solve the problems of social and territorial cohesion either. moreover, existing imbalances are reinforced. i am told that the eu budget does not finance social protection expenditure, but it is also supposedly not financing defence expenditure, and yet the investment in defence and military spending is growing. we are told that there are no more resources, that the existing ones must be adjusted, but, nevertheless, defence spending is new, for the sake of a supposed security. security is achieved with quality employment and rights, with budgets for social inclusion, with public policies, working to end poverty and inequalities, but there is nothing new in this budget.
mr president, sometimes democracy has these things. with the democratic rules of this parliament, the group which is proposing this debate, which is sitting here basically to try to destroy the european union, has the possibility of proposing a debate whose approach is absolutely deplorable, morally unworthy, xenophobic, racist and profoundly anti-european. the title of the debate itself distills anti-immigration ideology and tries to frame the discussion in terms which the socialist group of course rejects. some believe that by calling immigration "illegal", they are categorizing human beings themselves, as if there were categories of "legal persons" and "illegal persons". you see, gentlemen of the house, you don't fight immigration. immigration is regulated, managed, ordered, and injustice is fought for; and dignity is fought for for human beings who are forced to migrate. you tell the truth. immigration is not a crisis right now. immigration has made this continent and many others, it is an eternal human phenomenon, and what you have to do is order it, not fight human beings. we, the socialist group, are not going to be intimidated by the debates you propose, because they seem to us to be the worst version of politics, the kind that feeds on spreading falsehoods, spreading fear in order to try to extract some electoral profit. we are here to save the values you are fighting for, the values of solidarity, the rule of law, the dignity of the individual, the international conventions to which we are all signatories. europe is not being invaded. europe needs immigration, no matter how much you don't want to understand it.
mr president, this is a debate proposed by the far-right group with the title 'fighting illegal immigration'. guns, violence, things may be illegal, but people are not. and if you call people who come to europe seeking a better life illegal it is because our governments have given themselves the power to decide who can be saved or who must die, denying citizenship to millions of people. they are illegal so that when they are needed, they can be locked up and die in the mediterranean, locked up in a cie or returned hot to a fence. they are also illegal so that, when they are interested, the doors are opened to them and they can be sexually exploited or work in conditions of semi-slavery. but the people who should be locked up in a cie are people like mrs le pen or all those people who think that because we are born in europe or because we are white we have a better right to eat than the rest. and the wall we will build - of course we will - a wall you will not pass through, a wall of anti-fascist solidarity.
mr president, every day counts and today, 25 october 2017, the great shame of europe remains the lack of safe pathways of entry for refugees, but also of an orderly system for the entry of migration. let me give you an example: there are 5,000 refugees living in moria, in lesbos, suffering from depression, suicide attempts, conflicts because of the inhumane conditions. those who arrived in the greek islands after 20 march 2016 are excluded from the relocation plan. they're hopelessly trapped. and many member states are not up to the historic challenge - because this is one of the challenges of the century - or their political commitments. when the principles and values of the union are undermined, we have to cling to the rule of law and, if it is violated, apply sanctions. this, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the reasons for our failure. there are no mechanisms for sanctioning the states, which can make more efforts, which can also do so by other means (study visas, work visas, rapid family reunification procedures), but they look the other way cowardly.
mr president, immigration may be legal or irregular, but never can a human being be considered illegal. these categories only create dangerous invisible walls built on the stigmatization of the migrant population, such as the shameful title of this debate, which distills the xenophobia of fascists in ties. the european union is also doing this, and it is constantly talking about illegal migrants. the solution is to turn the foreign policy on migration and borders of the 'fortress europe' which is really stimulating the business of human trafficking in the mediterranean. the mafia is the fire we have to put out, but the immigration policies of fortress europe are the gasoline that keeps that fire alive.
mr president, as the parliament's permanent rapporteur on humanitarian aid, i reject the approach taken by the person who proposed this debate. a focus on cultural xenophobia wrapped in some brushstrokes of pharisaic christianity. this is a complex issue and cannot be addressed by simply treating the symptoms of one of its components. we need a global response that addresses the causes with robust investments in countries of origin and transit; that opens up avenues for humanitarian access and also for orderly immigration; that fights and pursues traffickers; that respects the human rights of those who arrive at our borders and that promotes integration policies in the countries where these migrants settle. that is a global approach and it is a commitment for the whole of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the cooperation. even though we had too many divergences to have an agreement on that particular file, the spirit was constructive, and i would like to thank you for that. we are very critical of the assessment that we will do in the semester. we believe that, in a way, we are supporting the implementation of a policy mix that is failing; one that basically says ‘cut public expenditure, implement supply-side structural reforms, and everything will be fine’. we believe that the flaws and problems of the european economy are still very big, and we need to correct that. once the action of the ecb diminishes, our economies are probably still not ready to continue in a sustainable path for growth. we are, in that sense, too complacent with the report regarding the current state of the euro area economy, and we remain too silent on the institutional reforms required for its future at the current juncture. furthermore, the environmental and sustainability angle is missing, as the need to increase resource efficiency and to adapt the economy to the fight against climate change is not mentioned in the report. we also have, in the text, a strongly productivist narrative insisting on the need to achieve high gdp growth rates and to increase, as a priority, price competitiveness. there is no mention, as mr papadimoulis was saying, of the issue of macroeconomic and financial imbalances inside the eurozone, and we know that the macroeconomic imbalances procedure should be used by the commission in a much more decisive way, taking into account the imbalances that we have inside the euro area. finally, there is also no mention of the issues related to taxation and no mention of the ccctb or the need to advance in other fields regarding taxation. so my group remains very critical both on the process of the semester and on the report of its assessment this year, and that is why we cannot support the report this time. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, i agree with mr valli that there is a procedure that can be activated in the event of very large imbalances, through the ipm. we are now faced with a very sustained imbalance in the trade balance, a very sustained surplus by some member states for a long time. and we have asked the european commission many times what the criteria are, basically for how long and at what level that surplus level must be for them to activate the mip. and so far, they're not responding to it. but i fully agree with the honourable member that this issue should be activated, because it is one of the main imbalances in the euro area at the moment.
mr president, mr vice-president - you are not paying attention to me, but well - the european semester shows that we have achieved a certain degree of stable financial consolidation - let us hope it is not fragile - that employment figures are improving - we know that this is the way - that there is a certain level of growth - it is not like firing rockets, let us hope that the clouds will not obscure it. i shall concentrate on the lack of awareness of these improvements in society in many parts of europe. i will tell you that there are three fundamental reasons: firstly, the difficulty of accepting that things will not be as they were before, but that we cannot do much about it; secondly, the duality of the labour market and lost generations like the nines - we can do a lot and we must include it in the european semester - and thirdly, and fundamentally, the unacceptable growth of inequalities now. and for that we need fiscal distribution policies, investment policies and income policies throughout the european semester that are obsessively geared to reducing the inequality dynamic.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the sts securitisation is not subject to the same rules as the sts securitisation. often the citizens with whom i meet in asturias, in spain, ask me what we are doing in this house. even the audience here with us today is asking us what is this about securitization, or what we work on every day. and i must say that it is sometimes very difficult to explain what our work is, how the regulations and directives we adopt and debate in this parliament affect your day-to-day life. i think we have adopted two very important regulations today, because many families are thinking, for example, of buying a car which they probably want to finance. or many small businesses are having trouble getting their banks to advance bill collection or allow them to place commercial paper. and these two regulations are there to help those people. these two regulations will enable small companies which, on the large organized markets, do not have shares, which cannot issue bonds on the international capital markets, to place these commercial papers more easily through their own banking institutions, because these will be able to securitize them, they will be able to place them later on those international markets. they're also going to allow those households that are thinking about buying cars or buying a bunch of other assets that they need to finance, to be able to finance them with better interest rates, with better treatment. so today we're taking a very important step, because we believe that we need to activate that financing capacity in the real economy and we're doing it. and we do so with caution, because we have managed to get the european systemic risk board to analyse the capital markets to avoid bubbles like the one we experienced in the last crisis. and we also managed to make the capital requirements or the cost for banks to carry out this type of operation a little lower, but always subject to very restrictive quality criteria on this type of credit: important qualities, high qualities so as not to repeat the mistakes of the last crisis. in addition, with these two regulations we are helping to create that european capital market. because we argue that the rating agencies, which always discriminate on the basis of the quality of the sovereign, should have a smaller role and that international investors should focus exclusively on the risk of small loans. look at exactly what the risk is to avoid discrimination between the countries of the north and the countries of the south. so we are going to approve these two reports, and i think that, as from tomorrow, european citizens will notice this in their daily lives.
mr president, commissioner, one of the main pillars of the capital markets union is the effort to revitalize the securitisation market in order to improve the financing of our economy. the regulatory package we are going to adopt tomorrow sets common rules for all securitisations and provides a framework for securitisation products to be, despite the doubts of some, safe, simple and transparent, and to be standardised and sufficiently supervised. these new rules will help investors to better assess the risks associated with securitisation, both in the products themselves and in the different product categories. in 2014 we saw the securitisation market shrink by almost 50% from its 2007 peak, and this led to many smes not getting the funding they were seeking. this agreement contributes to creating new investment opportunities across the union and provides an additional source of financing for the economy, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups. the reactivation of the securitisation market will lead to more diversified sources of financing and less dependence on the banking sector, thus contributing to the overall stability and resilience of the financial system. the commission's forecasts show that if the volume of securitisation in the european union reached the average level before the crisis, it could generate between eur 100 and eur 150 billion more in funding. the main beneficiaries would be small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the engine of the european economy. in conclusion, a well-structured securitisation market will contribute to improving the efficiency and stability of the financial system, providing investment opportunities and creating benefits for citizens and businesses, with cheaper and more accessible loans. i welcome this proposal and congratulate the negotiating team on their great work.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, first of all, i’m grateful for your engagement and support in the whole process that gets us to the positive result, and i hope that tomorrow’s vote will confirm this. with your support, we now have a clear set of rules to ensure that simple, transparent and standardised securitisation benefits the real economy. the new rules will clearly differentiate between those products which satisfy the criteria and those that do not. this works towards an important funding channel for the eu economy, without endangering financial stability.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the joint debate on:- report by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the negotiating mandate for trade negotiations with australia (2017/2192(ini)) (a8-0311/2017), and- report by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the negotiating mandate for trade negotiations with new zealand (2017/2193(ini)) (a8-0312/2017).
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr caspary on his work on this subject and i shall refer mainly to australia. it is a major country in an economically dynamic region like asia and the pacific. australia has a highly developed and open economy, and the european union is already the second largest exporter to australia after china. a balanced and mutually beneficial free trade agreement will increase our economic and trade relations with that country. the european union has also just signed a framework agreement with australia. with this agreement and the future trade agreement we would have a very solid platform to deepen our relationship with australia, a country far away but very close in terms of history, principles and values. australia is, in asia the pacific, a natural ally, so to speak, of the european union. let's help strengthen this relationship. the future europe of the twenty-seven must also be very present in australia. the european economy and european businesses also need external markets. that is why, commissioner, i encourage you to continue your efforts to build up this vast network of trade agreements, and to make the agreement with australia one of them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the question with request for an oral answer (o-000075/2017) tabled by cláudia monteiro de aguiar, luis de grandes pascual, wim van de camp, claudia schmidt, georges bach, elissavet vozemberg-vrionidi, istván ujhelyi, maria grapini, rolandas paksas, elżbieta katarzyna łukacijewska, rosa estaràs ferragut, deirdre clune, kateřina konečná, andor deli, marek plura, gabriele preuß, olga sehnalová, birgitin-langen, matt carthy, paul rübig, nessa childers, seán kelly, tomenk vandere, claudia țapardel, isabella monte, rena deas, izkunas bilbao barandica, peter kourou, ivo schmidt, blasheviks, milos miltiadis, józsef kostis, educa ivica ivica, educa ivica ivica, educa ivica ivica tobias, educa ivica ivica tobias, daniel anderson, ivan zosa, rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa, rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa rosa
madam president, in matters like this, commissioner, it is the commission and the european institutions that stake our credibility. we are dealing with companies that are partnering to prevent the normal operation of business 2020, such as global ticket distributors or price comparators. both are based on creating value by analyzing public data that is on the internet, such as airline fares and routes, and creating a new service that is useful and very cheap for the user. in the face of this kind of digital economy initiative, several airlines are associating with the sole purpose of building a dominant position and abusing it, without offering, in addition, any new service, advantage or discount to their own customers. this kind of tariff is, in my humble opinion, an attack on consumer rights, but it is also incompatible with free competition and lethal for entrepreneurs who, on the basis of knowledge, innovation and imagination, create value where there was none. i therefore call for exemplary measures to prevent such practices in order to ensure the health of the internal market and, above all, to protect our main source of wealth and employment. but immediately, chief. today we did not get the answer we expected.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, first of all i would like to express my solidarity with the families of the dead and the hundreds of injured in galicia and portugal. the superfire cocktail real social and environmental drama is well known intentional fire, rural neglect, cuts in fire prevention and extinguishing and climate change. let's be clear: spain and portugal do not spontaneously burn, in the northwest of spain, for criminal or cultural reasons, up to 70% of fires are intentional. besides, we've left the mountain. today, development is accompanied by depopulation, lack of preventive management and land use planning, and the iberian peninsula is currently suffering the worst drought in the last twenty years (high temperatures and the first hurricane ever recorded so far east in the atlantic). what can we do? the drama of hyperfires can only be ended by prosecuting those responsible, prevention policies, citizen awareness and long-term territorial planning. let us devote more resources to environmental prosecutions so that those who set fire to the forest can be identified and convicted. let us prioritise investment in areas of high fire risk and greater prevention through the european agricultural fund for rural development. we're going to recover the pre-crisis budgets, because, like it or not, we're going to have to expand the high-risk campaign and the firefighting operation to a year-round basis. we ban eucalyptus and other flammable species from the core and city environment to reduce the risk to local populations. let's put in place a policy of landscape management through prescribed burning, sustainable logging or extensive livestock farming. we have finally passed a climate change law in spain, which is up to the challenge of climate change. let us be more ambitious in the european union and establish a forest fire prevention policy that prepares forests for the climate change context. in fact, let us bet on a rural world and diverse and ecological forests with employment, wealth and life.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i also thank you for your condolences and for your explanations of the steps the european commission is going to take with regard to the civil protection mechanism and the solidarity fund. i would like to begin by expressing my deepest sympathy for our portuguese neighbours and the high number of victims. in galicia, my homeland, we also mourned the death of four people. my heartfelt sympathy goes out to their families. and i want to add some facts about galicia. the fires were the result of intentional arson activity, not chance. the security forces and the judiciary are now investigating the authorship of these fires. criminal hands took advantage of the extreme weather conditions on sunday the 15th: extremely high temperatures for october preceded by a prolonged drought and very strong winds from the effect of hurricane ophelia. that day there were many fires 125, they tripled the number of those that occur on the most risky days of the worst months of august. in addition, most fires were set in the afternoon and evening, so that air-suppressed means could not be used. many fires were extinguished, but some difficult circumstances, especially the wind, made it impossible to extinguish them all. commissioner, the galician forests are not burning by chance, they are burning by criminal hands. it was not a problem of lack of resources, there were never as many resources as in october: 5 600 people, 350 brigades, 220 motor bomb trucks and 40 large shovels or bulldozers, plus some 20 airborne vehicles. to this must be added the large numbers of the military emergency unit. nor is it a problem arising from the type of tree species. for example, orense, the province of galicia most affected these days, is practically devoid of eucalyptus. we are essentially dealing with a problem of criminal crime, which took advantage of extreme weather conditions. i would like to conclude by thanking president juncker for his commitment, as he expressed it yesterday in this house, to study the application of the solidarity fund to these serious fires as soon as possible.
madam president, it is only ten days since galicia was again the scene of a fire. thousands of acres of high ecological value burned. towns and cities were surrounded by fire. houses and businesses were lost. and, most tragically, human lives were lost. i'm sorry for your loss. and if anywhere we know about the consequences of the fire is in galicia. it is easy to talk about plots that burn the forest, about arsonists who must be punished, but that is not the underlying problem. galicia is dragging along serious problems that its government is not facing: depopulation and abandonment of the countryside, lack of territorial planning, erroneous forestry policy, lack of prevention. what happened in the terrible wave of fires in 2006 is that we came from several years of government that looked the other way in terms of land planning and forest policy. and now the same thing happened. it is therefore urgent that governments take comprehensive measures to combat and prevent fires seriously and it is urgent that action is taken and that inaction on climate change is abandoned. the european union must also be more belligerent in meeting the challenge of climate change, in reorienting its policies. the solidarity fund should be reoriented to be effective in mitigating the consequences of the disaster caused by climate change. the funding of the natura 2000 network for conservation needs to be improved and the european civil protection mechanism needs to be strengthened to improve capacity and response speed. climate change is not an excuse. it requires commitment.
madam president, last june we discussed the fires which ravaged portugal and which claimed the lives of 64 people. the majority of members agreed that a forestry policy focused on prevention was needed. four months later, we find ourselves mourning a new tragedy: galicia, asturias and portugal have burned again and their hell has left a trail of desolation and death. spain is not portugal, and the extinction devices are not comparable, but the decades-old forestry policy based on pine and eucalyptus is an added risk to the weather. we cannot stop pursuing illegal plantations, many forests have been left uncleared and there is a lot of neglect. we also need information systems that are based on new technologies, but at least in spain the big problem is probably crime, probably the business of burning wood, where up to now there has been ignorance or lazy tolerance. and now i'm going to our thing. mr juncker has been the mea culpa this week on the european union civil protection mechanism. he said that it could not be that a fire started on a sunday and the first european union plane arrived on wednesday. did the coordination fail? shall we go from words to deeds, commissioner?
madam president, first of all i would like to express our solidarity with the victims of the forest fires. secondly, in galicia, we point to the abandonment of the countryside caused by agricultural policies as one of the main causes of the increase in fires, which is aggravated by climate change. we think that europe has to do much more, commissioner. we leave you with some ideas for another policy to combat forest fires. firstly, the decided support for existing farms and the establishment of farmers throughout the territory. secondly, to restore forested agricultural land, to eliminate eucalyptus and pine trees around houses and villages and to put an end to the monoculture of these species. people's lives have to come first. thirdly, we want economic support to restore native forests and to introduce flocks of sheep, goats or cows into the hills. the fire service must be fully public and the profession of firefighter and firefighter must be dignified.
madam president, the truth is that the weather conditions we face in the worst days of the fire are uncommon conditions these days, but it is true that behind all the fires that have ravaged asturias, there are incendiary, criminal behaviours that must be pursued. but apart from prosecuting all those who are committing criminal acts by setting fire to the forest in asturias, we need to improve the conditions for prevention, because climate change is a challenge to which we must respond globally, as the commissioner has said. because it's not just the fire, it's the floods. we need those preventative measures. we welcome and hope for this improvement in the european civil protection system, but we clearly need to improve prevention systems and we need more support from europe in this area. and at the moment we need european support to make the use of the solidarity fund more flexible, which we must put into operation now. and i would like to thank the union for donating the amount of the princess of asturias prize to the people who have suffered from this serious crisis, these serious fires in asturias.
madam president, i want to begin by expressing my solidarity with the victims and families of this wave of fires and my deep regret for the emotional, environmental, economic and social damage that this tragedy is producing. but then i ask you to urgently implement the european solidarity mechanism in the event of natural disasters and to accelerate all the initiatives under way to improve crossborder coordination and prevention. in the galician case, for example, a surveillance plan using drones co-financed by the commission does not appear to be operational. there are complaints of abuse in the cultivation of fast-growing species that are highly combustible and also of poor coordination and poor foresight after it was known five days earlier that the heat and wind could increase the risk and the severity of fires. that is why, commissioner, we must activate aid, better control the programmes that are co-financed, promote crossborder cooperation in civil protection and increase surveillance to make it difficult for arsonists and to ensure that no one can do business, either by putting out fires or with burnt wood. these are the concerns of our friends from commitment for galicia.
madam president, asturias has been burned again. and it's not the first time that devastating fire has left the people of my land ruined. that's why, like the mountain, we also burned, but in anger, because we are tired of always throwing balls out. this is not solved by talking about arsonists, as some of the members here today did, or as the spanish minister for agriculture, mrs garcía tejerina, did. we must take political responsibility. ladies and gentlemen, the fires are the fever of a sick territory, the result of climate change and the absence of sensible forestry management policies which do not put eucalyptus and other species in the centre and encourage monoculture. but it is also the result of a devastating economic development which is driving people away from the land and the livestock and forcing people to leave their villages and their orchards, because, as we see, this abandonment is painful in that it endangers the lives of people and the planet. we must collectively reflect: more citizen participation, more value to those who care for the mountains and the villages, more value to those who feed us, and more value, above all, to the most important heritage we have as humanity, which are our mountains, our villages and our forests. because to put out fires, you have to revive the villages.
madam president, first of all i would like to convey my condolences to the families of the victims and, of course, condemn what has happened. on october 15th, galicia and portugal were on fire. in galicia there were four deaths and 35 000 hectares burned; in portugal, forty-three deaths and 150 000 hectares burned. however, the extinction quota was virtually the same. in galicia, two thirds of the budget is allocated to fire prevention and one third to firefighting. in spain, some €2 billion is spent annually on firefighting - only the united states has an equivalent per capita budget. in addition, this budget has been increased by almost 20% in 2012, and coordination with the autonomous communities and forestry policy has been improved. it is not a problem of this government, as mr blanco has just said, who is now gone. and, by the way, i remind you that in august 2006 110,000 hectares were burned in galicia with your party in power in galicia and spain. that's not the case. in this case, however, it was not a forest fire, but a real arson. drought, wind and high temperature can explain the spread of a fire, but they don't explain its start. what is not explained is that, with all these weather conditions, so many fires were started simultaneously, in the late afternoon and in periurban areas and natural spaces: this can only be intentional. i would like to end by reiterating that we in spain are well prepared to fight fires, and the european commission itself recognises this. but fighting these kinds of environmental crimes, which cause human tragedies, is a different matter altogether.
madam president, in asturias we have already had ninety-six fires in forty-one of the seventy-eight municipalities we have. certainly, some have been provoked, but there is a political responsibility as well. one of the main causes is the poor management of the territory and of public facilities, for example by neglecting the cleaning of the forests and especially the fire-fighting zones, and also by applying unacceptable labour policies to fire-fighting equipment, with intermittent temporary contracts, instead of having stable public places. and, in addition, the watchtowers have been removed. these are the consequences of the cuts. the cause is also the policies of the union, and especially the cap, which have led to the depopulation of rural areas and the abandonment of the countryside and forests. even the rural population, now aged, cannot go into the forests to clean up, because the subsidiary rules are also applied in the nature parks. of course, when there are no firefighters, the army is sent. there's money for that. too many police and too few firefighters, mr. commissioner. and to make matters worse, in our region, asturias, there is also an investigation under way for the misuse of erdf funds which should have been earmarked for reforestation and clearing of forests.
member of the commission. – madam president, i say to the house: dear colleagues, thank you so much for your participation and your contribution to this timely debate. i have taken very careful note of your suggestions and your proposals, which will definitely feed into my reflections and proposals to the college next month. thank you so much for your support and your encouragement in reaching this very critical objective, namely to give to our citizens a real european response to these unprecedented natural disasters inside europe. i would like to respond to some of your observations. first of all, as i said, we need to take a comprehensive approach. i want to come forward with proposals, not only in response to the forest fires – as i said – but also to hurricanes, earthquakes and floods. this is quite important for me. to do this we need – as i said – at least three things. i would like to stress this because it is a sort of strategic plan. first, additional financial support, to be better equipped to respond to disasters. i am sure that we all agree on this. second, we need to put more emphasis on prevention and preparedness, with better links to the structural funds. i thank you because i saw again that we agree on this. for me, increased prevention and preparedness should be a precondition for any extra support. finally, the third point is that we of course need to improve the efficiency of the mechanism, so that we can deploy assistance more rapidly during emergencies. this is quite important, and this why i accepted that sometimes our response was not as fast as the emergency required. my dear friends, we are not starting from zero in terms of coordinating the civil protection activities of our member states. in my contact with the council and our member states through the eu civil protection mechanism, some member states are now already pre—committing capacities, such as firefighters, for rapid deployment. this is quite important. we certainly need to be able to deploy more firefighting teams when requested. this will be an important element of our work. i would also like to respond to the idea of new planes. we all agree that there are not enough planes and capacities to deal with the increasing number of forest fires. one of the objectives of the revision is to address this gap and develop additional operational capacities. we will look at all options in order to find the most efficient solution. the mandate that i received from the college, president juncker and the council is very clear. we must provide better support to our citizens at times of crisis and emergency, with maximum efficiency and minimum bureaucracy. as i said, we are not starting from zero in terms of coordination. the experience of the civil protection mechanism is positive, but it has its shortcomings. we will therefore come forward with concrete proposals in order to deliver these rapid and tangible results on the ground, and tangible european solidarity to our citizens. so we need to be better prepared for future natural disasters and to have more capacity to respond to the next natural disaster. time is of the essence. we should be in place to help our citizens practically. at least this is our duty as representatives of the european people. thank you again for your support and your suggestions.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, dear members, after having listened to this debate all i have to say is that i am looking forward to action and to receiving proposals by the commission – and from what i heard from commissioner stylianides, right now i feel quite encouraged already about the path that we have chosen in order to tackle these issues. i can reiterate that the council will give high priority to these proposals when they come.
in writing. last week we witnessed with horror the more than 200 fires in spain and portugal, which burned thousands of hectares, caused incalculable ecological damage and claimed the lives of dozens of people. in galicia, fires were especially numerous. the xunta had no effective plan against the fires, carrying out a devastating forest policy and even firing 436 brigadiers from the forestry teams, even though they knew that the risk of fires was very high, due to the unusual lack of rain. the losses, both human and material and ecological, that will take decades to recover, have culprits. and much of the fault for this is the government of galicia, the pp, which does not invest in active policies on fire extinguishing, nor fire prevention, something that experts believe is key to ending this sad tradition of fires in our forests every summer. and from here i want to thank the galician people, who did not hesitate to take part heroically in putting out the fires, seeing that the aid either did not arrive, or was totally insufficient. i would also like to express my support to the families of the victims of these fires.
in writing. following the devastating fires in northern spain and portugal, the eu needs to provide structured support. the main aid mechanism is the eu solidarity fund, which was set up to respond to major natural disasters. to be effective, the damage must exceed a percentage of the gdp of the region or country concerned. other actions may also be involved, as around 90% of the union's funds for forests come from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd), which provides for a measure to repair damage to forests caused by fires, natural disasters and catastrophes. regional funds from the erdf and the life programme are another possibility. despite this aid, the socialists have called for the priorities of the eafrd and the cap to be reoriented. we also want to see the solidarity fund reviewed to make it more effective, increase the funding for the natura network - the life programme is not enough - and strengthen the european union's civil protection mechanism.
in writing. the series of arson attacks in recent weeks have left a trail of human misery and intolerable environmental destruction in southern europe, particularly in spain and portugal. this year alone, 750 000 hectares have been burned in the union and over 100 people have died as a result. i would like to thank the president of the european parliament, mr antonio tajani, for his symbolic initiative in donating the €50 000 from the last princess of asturias concordia award to the victims of the fires. i also support the proposals of my colleagues in parliament to improve our civil protection mechanism against fires and to ensure that the european solidarity fund fulfils its role more effectively. a strong and united europe cannot afford weak links which put its natural and human heritage to such a dramatic test. the challenges of climate change and self-interested crime, which have such an impact on the environment, especially in the rural world, require that states and citizens are not left alone. we need to move towards a common european response to environmental terrorism.
in writing. a combination of negative circumstances caused 146 fires during the same weekend in galicia, all of them attributable to humans. in addition, 2017 will be the warmest year on record, due to the undeniable greenhouse effect increased by our fossil fuel-dependent lifestyle. land neglect, low environmental awareness, and the negative effects of fire as a destructive tool do the rest. we must add to this a forestry model which lacks adequate planning and is based on monocultures of pyrophytes such as eucalyptus, and the disastrous autonomous management of prevention measures. unconcerned about an autumn with temperatures of up to 35 oc, and criticized by the unions, the xunta de galicia fired 465 brigadiers who ended their contracts, just 15 days before the somber weekend. the environment is not perceived as a source of wealth, and this pedagogical task is an essential task of the administrations. in spain, it is the responsibility of the regional authorities, with full environmental responsibilities transferred, to assume the obligation of planning, conservation and prevention with a long-term horizon. it is unfortunate that the current fires are repeated for decades due to the passivity of the administration.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank and commend our colleague mr chrysogonos, who has drawn up this report. article 42 of the charter of fundamental rights states that every natural or legal person has the right of access to european union documentation. the committee on petitions reiterates that we must make this right effective. we need to know the details of the investigative procedures - i am not talking about infringement procedures, but investigative procedures - opened by the european commission in relation to petitions. but more than that, we need access to the files of those proceedings when it comes to petitions that are open and we need to clarify them. if we do not, we are undermining the credibility of these european institutions, which is already badly damaged and of which we are all aware.
mr president, the effective application of european union law must be a priority for all the institutions, because it increases the sense of belonging and trust of european citizens in their institutions. it is really very important at this time that this confidence be increased; moreover, it ensures that there are no inequalities and it greatly favours legal certainty. the commission is certainly responsible for implementing and enforcing european legislation. and that is why i would encourage the commission to play an active role in this mission and to make it a political priority for it. the monitoring of compliance with this legislation through structured dialogue before the opening of an infringement procedure certainly helps to ensure that there are no such procedures and that they can be applied in a satisfactory manner. the member states also have a very high responsibility. this requires transposition and transposition within a realistic timeframe, so that the implementation and application of that union law can actually take place. in the committee on petitions - its chairman said this - we have seen a great many petitions on human rights, justice, the internal market and, above all, the environment and accessibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. it is an opportunity to make this sense of belonging of european citizens to these european values a reality. i agree with the rapporteur's report in general, except on one point: it is not very sensible to criticise the legitimate european decisions - as some colleagues have said here - and, taking advantage of the fact that the pisuerga passes through valladolid, to make ideologically biased criticisms in a report which is intended to assess the application of european legislation. i think that what we have to do with this report is to see how we can improve the implementation of this legislation and, above all, strengthen the credibility of the european institutions. the use of the report for ideological purposes has the opposite effect. i think it's time to adjust to the debate, to be serious and to build that trust.
mr president, we appreciate the implementation of the environmental liability directive which was adopted in 2004 and then transposed a few years later. the aim was, of course, to prevent and repair any environmental damage under the 'polluter pays' principle. everything that is prevention and repair is, of course, key to being able to have sustainable growth and to be able to make economies work and societies be healthy. in this respect, the directive sought to work in three areas: halting the loss of biodiversity, both in relation to protected species and habitats; the quality and quantity of water 'could somehow stop the deterioration'; and also the protection of soil. the rapporteur, mrs laura ferrara, looks at the shortcomings in the implementation of this directive, and one that has been noted throughout the session is the different implementation by the member states. in fact, there are many differences in the number of incidents of environmental damage triggering the application of this directive between member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the commission has said so. we will have to compare and study all the member states with comparative data to see what is really happening and from there to see how we can improve the legal text. the proposal is to extend the scope of the directive beyond 'technological and medical research' to include environmental damage which may affect human health and therefore also to cover this subject, and also to cover all matters relating to air pollution. in short, it is a matter of complying with the 2020 strategy of having integrated but also sustainable growth, and therefore of supporting the commission in this study, in this collating of data, in this looking at exchanges to see how we can improve the application of this directive, which will, without a doubt, make our economy work and we will have a healthy society.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr carver is a brexit supporter. it is therefore not surprising that he is promoting as many debates as possible that divide the european union. that's not our case. we are not going to vote for your proposal, but i will give you two more arguments. the european arrest warrant... (the president calls the order)... democracy is appealed to by those who can't even listen. they should first learn to listen and then use the name of democracy. the european arrest warrant is issued by a judge; it was issued by a judge in spain. and it's settled by a judge; it's going to be settled by a judge in belgium. neither this parliament nor any other parliament is in a position to tell a judge what to do. if we start censuring the judges in this parliament, we will end the division of powers in europe. we need not criticize what a judge in spain does, nor do we need to condition what a judge in belgium will do. let the judges decide for themselves without telling parliament what they have to do. that's not democracy. i shall conclude, mr president, with a second point. in catalonia there is an election campaign. on december 21st, there will be a decisive election. everyone shows up and everyone can vote. let us not condition the elections from this parliament. let each country and each region have its autonomy. let us not impose europe, and especially not at the request of those who want to destroy it.
madam president, commissioner, rapporteur, thank you for your work. the problem of depopulation is common to several countries of the european union, which have seen their population, year after year and for decades, become concentrated in cities, to the detriment of rural areas and villages. in spain, of course my country, it is a particularly pressing problem, and even the government itself has created the figure of the commissioner in the face of the demographic challenge to promote a national strategy in this regard. with this problem in mind, which i call 'depopulation', the commission's proposal is an opportunity to create statistical instruments which will make it possible to analyse the situation of the regions in greater detail and to implement community policies. the report does indeed raise a very positive issue, namely that of giving legal recognition to the territorial typologies which have been used in the european statistical system, so that they can serve as categories when designing cohesion or rural development policies and thus allow regions and geographical areas to be compared. however, in my opinion, it is a somewhat wasted opportunity. i agree with what my colleagues have said about the categorisation of islands, but i also think that more attention should have been paid to the topography of the territories when drawing up a new grid to distinguish between three new types of towns, urban areas and rural areas. a hilly surface cannot be treated in the same way as a flat surface. this question, which may not be of any further interest, is important for analysing the different territories, because there are population centres situated at a low level, which has a great impact on finding a suitable place to set up an agricultural farm on which a family can earn their living. consider these things too.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this initiative because his work proposes realistic measures to incorporate the principle of prevention into infrastructure investment, vehicle design and driver behaviour. only then can we reach 2050 without road deaths. as we have heard, more than 25 000 people are killed every year in the union as a result of these types of accidents and about 120 000 are seriously injured. as the report says, the keys to solving this problem lie in training and technology. the report also points to a complementary way to penalties which actually encourages drivers to respect the traffic rules designed to protect them: the idea of linking in a decisive way the taxation of vehicles and the rates they pay for insurance to the safety conditions of the vehicles. to this end, it seems essential to make progress on standards which will enable the scope, operation and guarantees of driver assistance devices and vehicle design innovations to be defined throughout the european union, with a focus on improving the visibility and impact of possible impacts. finally, the other major key to accident prevention is in infrastructure: roads and signalling. we need to ensure that the first ones can incorporate devices that, with the technology available, are no longer science fiction. for example, designing and investing in speed limitation signs or lane dividers or road boundary bands that are able to interact with vehicles and thus limit the effect of factors such as distraction, drowsiness, etc. on the deterioration of road safety. it would be essential to include these parameters in the requirements that a road investment must meet in order to be eligible for european support and that the money collected from tolls be used directly and compulsorily in investment in road maintenance and improvement.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, europe is based on different philosophical, legal and moral pillars, but its history and identity are still difficult to understand without christianity, even in the midst of a secular age. no other part of the world has been more influenced by christianity and no other can do more now to defend its survival and freedom in the face of persecution. i would simply like to stress two facts in connection with the persecution of christians. the first is that this persecution is global in nature and various indicators point to it being increasing, even in its most lethal dimensions. christians are the most persecuted religious group in most countries. and according to studies, christians are the target of 60 to 80 percent of religious discrimination worldwide, both by states and by social groups. the second is that the persecution of christians continues to receive the coverage it deserves from the media, the major human rights associations and political institutions, including the european union. we should be particularly concerned about the destruction of historic christian communities that is taking place among our mediterranean neighbours, a ordeal that threatens to spread to refugees who manage to reach europe. the european union is obliged to protect this valuable moral and cultural heritage. and this we can understand, believers and non-believers, as a citizen like myself. let us use this debate to ensure that this issue is firmly on the european agenda.
the persecution of christians and the increase in it are real; they must be denounced and fought against. but the problem is not just the persecution of christians in particular - it is the increase of religious persecution worldwide. and there are many examples: the savage persecution of the yazidis by the terrorist group daesh; the genocide of the rohingya muslim minority in myanmar, with at least 270 000 refugees and more than 2 000 killed; a systematically organized massacre by the government of that country with the connivance of a nobel peace prize winner and much applauded and mourned by members of this house: president aung san suu kyi, who was awarded the sakharov prize in 1990; the repression of the uighurs in egypt; the persecution of the baha'i religious minority in yemen; in pakistan, any criticism of religion can be punished by the death penalty; or in malaysia, where there is a minister, mr shahidan kassim, who defended this view of atheists. and we must not forget the rise of islamophobia in many european countries, fuelled by the racist and xenophobic hysteria of all the far-right parties, but also of seemingly more respectable political forces. the european parliament must be firmly committed to combating discrimination and the increase in violence linked to religious differences. to approach this global problem by choosing only one of the persecuted religions is to foment religious conflict and the logic of hatred and confrontation.
author. mr president, commissioner, i am speaking on behalf of the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mr alain cadec, and i will also be joining my speech to the one i had scheduled, thus adding up the two times, with the presidency's permission, to a maximum of five minutes which i will not be able to meet. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. and you know why? because the fisheries sector is always the first to have an interest in maintaining optimum environmental conditions, and the defence of posidonia is a common element of all the political groups in the committee on fisheries. as is well known, posidonia oceanica is an endemic plant of the mediterranean, one of the most productive and resilient species in the biosphere, capable of forming underwater meadows of great ecological importance, within which many animal and plant organisms live and which provide food and protection. it is also an excellent bioindicator of the quality of coastal marine waters. today, there are doubts about the conservation of these habitats, but sometimes the fishermen are always blamed, and it is not fair that the fishing industry is accused of causing a negative impact on the environment. there are many other factors, such as dredging practices, coastal development, eutrophication and climate change - among others - that have plunged this mediterranean lung into a serious regression process in recent years, making the slow-growing and difficult-to-regenerate posidonia one of the most endangered seaweeds at the moment. given the importance of this fact, we ask the commission to explain to us whether it has envisaged any additional measures that can be taken, not only to protect the posidonia oceanica stocks but also to restore their stocks. in this regard, some member states - including spain, with six mediterranean marine reserves with grasslands of this species - have taken concrete measures to curb the impact of human actions and ensure the conservation and preservation of the marine ecosystem. the routine of marine reserve services includes the recognition of the health status of these grasslands, and in particular their flowering and fruiting, whose increased interannual frequency and longer seasonal duration seem to be related to global change. also the specific collaboration in projects such as posimed, in collaboration with different ecology institutes, or the prohibition of diving in the integral reserves, or the elaboration of specific content on values of this species that forms underwater forests of fisheries interest. the inclusion of content on the need to protect marine habitats, with grasslands being a preferred habitat in national fisheries and biodiversity legislation. finally, the inclusion of content on this species in the educational strategy of marine reserve networks, school campaigns and school outreach, because we cannot forget that environmental education and awareness are fundamental if we want to stop the deterioration of the posidonia oceanica and also protect coastal marine habitats. in this connection, and in order to avoid the enormous pressure on these habitats which are essential for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen, the productivity of marine resources and the protection of the coast, this house would like to know firsthand what data the commission has and what its assessment is of the investments made through its programmes. i would like to inform you that i am pleased that the level of protection provided for in the habitats directive, which is an instrument for the protection of posidonia meadows, is maintained. marine habitats provide great ecological services for humanity and in this context, posidonia is an important part of maintaining that biodiversity. i'm aware of this importance, but it's not enough to be aware. what is needed at european union level is the promotion of similar actions in other member states, as i said is happening in spain. it is the commission's task to coordinate these actions throughout europe. and finally, when we talk about the mediterranean, it is also important that the neighbouring third countries participate in a joint effort. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the mediterranean to achieve their goals.
mr president, the surface of posidonia oceanica has decreased by 50% in the mediterranean over the last 20 years. the decline of this plant is caused by dredging practices, pollution, poor anchoring practices or uncontrolled anchoring linked to mass tourism, among many other reasons. the malfunctioning, the inadequate or non-existent treatment of waste water and the pollution of rivers is something that is constantly being denounced by sectors such as shellfish and shallow-water fisheries, a situation which i have repeatedly brought to the commission's attention. and, commissioner, the answers often reflect passivity or the lack of decisive action to reverse this situation, both in terms of the deficiencies in the water treatment systems and in terms of pollution linked to mass tourism or different infrastructures in these areas. and i ask you, commissioner, will you take it seriously this time? will you protect the posidonia and the rest of the coastal marine habitats by tackling the pollution that is destroying them? and the last question: what are the limits to blue growth to preserve these habitats?
in writing. the grasslands of posidonia oceanica are the most important mediterranean forest by extension, co2 fixation functions, great biodiversity hosting more than 400 species of mostly fishy fry or for their great oxygenation capacity. the big problem with this ecologically valuable aquatic plant forest is that it's not in sight, and its positive effects on the coast are only appreciated when they disappear. the population of the riverine is constantly increasing, negatively impacting this prairie so important for the maintenance of the good state of our sea. but, nevertheless, this growth and development is not accompanied by protective measures. the simple act of anchoring any recreational craft, increasingly frequent, irreversibly destroys a portion of up to one square meter of poseidon surface, which will take 100 years to cover, growth rate impossible to compete with the use that the human being makes of the coast. the measures to be promoted by the commission, such as ecological foundations that reconcile recreational use with the preservation of biodiversity, should be included in the review of environmental and land use legislation in the mediterranean coastal strip.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, we have before us a report on the demographic challenges which, in my view, are an essential issue for the european union project: the demographic challenges, because we are the continent with the world's oldest population and because we must take into account a question which i think reflects very well the radiography of what these demographic challenges are. 80% of the european population lives on 20% of the surface of our europe. that means we have very large rural areas, with depopulation processes that are really worrying. i would like to thank the commissioner, mrs crețu, for being here today, because it is a reflection of the european commission's commitment to this very important issue, and i would also like to thank, in this first speech, the work done by the various alternative rapporteurs, the various political groups and the staff of our committee in contributing to the improvement of this report which we are debating today. europe has important demographic challenges and next year, 2018, is a year where we will face fundamental negotiations, and this parliament will have to take a political position on this. we will be faced with debates such as the new budgetary framework of the union and what the new structural fund regulations are. on both these issues it is essential that there be a political position of this parliament to determine how we deal with the processes of depopulation in the european union. and i am pleased with the outcome of the debate and the vote in the committee on regional development on this report, because it raises fundamental issues and we have managed to take a position on issues which i believe are important in dealing with the processes of depopulation. firstly, the establishment of a legal framework. it is essential that we have the possibility of a legal framework defining which areas of depopulation need to be addressed as a matter of priority in order to solve the problems we are facing at the moment. we also propose in this report that there should be budget headings in all the structural fund regulations to meet the challenges faced by regions in the process of depopulation. there is one fundamental question which we have been raising for some time, and which is important to have reflected in this report, and that is that gdp, gross domestic product, should not be the sole criterion for taking into account or for determining the allocation of funds. and this is a fundamental question. and i say this is a fundamental question because gdp, being a fundamental and important criterion, cannot be the only one. other criteria must be taken into account, such as the processes of depopulation, ageing, dispersion, the rural environment, which are fundamental issues, because if not, we will find ourselves with european regions which are the richest in all of europe, but which have no population on which to implement the operational programmes of the structural funds. and coordination between the different funds is necessary. the coordination between the structural funds, the common agricultural policy, the investment funds and so on is a fundamental question. we have to deal with the masculinization of the countryside. we need to put public service policies in place in rural areas, which are fundamental. the austerity policy has done a lot of damage to our society, but especially to the rural environment, because when we remove a teacher from a school in a city it is important, but when we remove him from the rural environment we are closing schools. that is why it is essential to make rural areas attractive places where young men and women can decide to create their future. we do not have much time: the countryside is dying; we are closing down villages, they will disappear if we are not able to implement policies committed from the european union to fight against the processes of depopulation.
mr president, commissioner, i thank the rapporteur for this excellent report, which shows that the problem of depopulation is a european problem which we must solve by means of a great deal of agreement in our institutions. because, in the end, the consequences of depopulation are known to all of us: there are consequences from environmental to social. but what we have to go to is to solve the cause. the reason is the lack of equal opportunities, because of insufficient investment, because of a lack of public services and because of a lack of companies that will create jobs. and so we need an effort, a positive discrimination from the community budget for those regions, for those regions where there are greater problems of depopulation. it cannot be that the percentage of gdp alone is the yardstick for allocating community funds. cohesion, which is ultimately at the heart of community policy, has to start by seeking internal cohesion between the urban and the rural. we need your help, commissioner, to create more investment, to make more public effort, to ensure equal opportunities in our towns.
the rapporteur. mr president, yes, a point of order, very briefly. during the debate there was an intervention by a member who raised a question, repeatedly, which i believe is discriminatory towards women in the european union. i therefore ask the bureau to study these statements, which have also been repeated, to see whether any sanction is possible in this respect. equality is a fundamental value in the european union, and we cannot allow discriminatory messages to be broadcast in this house against women, who make up half the population of the european union. i therefore ask the bureau to study the content of these statements, so that we can put some sort of sanction in place in this respect.
in writing. the situation is dramatic and urgent. the countryside is depopulated and some cities are receiving population without being able to absorb it adequately. this leads to a reduced availability of public services in rural areas and an overburdening of public services in cities. the consequences are disastrous, both socially and environmentally. we must remember that the fires which struck spain and portugal a few weeks ago are the result of the neglect of the countryside. less services in rural areas means more migrants to cities that cannot absorb them, and so in a spiral cycle that is very difficult to contain. all this can be avoided with appropriate policies, which are certainly not the ones the union is pursuing. the cap, for example, favours only large landowners and penalizes small farmers, which is one of the main causes of rural depopulation. the countryside and the cities need each other, they are interdependent. let us change the production model, favour small businesses and farmers and ensure quality public services that enable rural people to settle; this will bring a better quality of life in cities and in the countryside, desirable environmental conditions and a greater distribution of wealth.
mr president, in the early hours of sunday 5 november there was a terrible fire at the ornua factory in avila, and it has been completely destroyed. ornua is an irish multinational company specialising in dairy products and has a plant in the vicolozano industrial estate. this fateful situation puts the work of 120 employees and a large number of abulans livestock farmers who supply this factory at risk. it is urgent and a priority to rebuild the plant as quickly as possible and to guarantee the wages and employment of the workers. the junta de castilla y león has reacted urgently and has committed actions within its competence, but the union must and must help through the operational programme of the eafrd in its reconstruction and with the initiatives supported by the european social fund for the workers concerned. i would like to draw attention to this terrible event which affects many families in abulens and ask for solidarity from the european institutions and, in particular, from the commission.
mr president, today i want to denounce the situation of 10 catalan political prisoners in spanish jails, eight of them members of the catalan government and two of them former members of the european parliament – raül romeva and oriol junqueras. they have been jailed without being condemned, and they risk four years in prison before trial with the spanish justice. their crime? to be loyal to a democratic mandate of the catalan people. two years ago, in 2015, pro-independence political parties won in catalonia an absolute majority in the catalan parliament thanks to two million votes, with the highest turn-out ever in our history: 77%. dear colleagues, let me remind you that to declare independence was not illegal. the spanish tribunals also did not declare illegal in 2015 the electoral programme of pro-independence parties, so this is why we call for the immediate release of all catalan prisoners so they can run in the elections next 21 december. llibertat presos catalans!
mr president, the complaints against the catalan government and the bureau of parliament were the beginning of an unprecedented process of criminalising political positions, a regime of exception and repression. the commission will say that it cannot interfere in the judicial system of a member state. he'll say it's an internal matter. but how long can you sustain that answer? seven members of a legitimate government and two social leaders have been jailed, and its president and several counsellors are in brussels after facing a european warrant. is this how political conflicts in the union are resolved? will you allow the spanish state to suspend or imprison an autonomous government whenever it does not like its political position because it is an internal matter? this is not an internal matter. it's a political choice backed by citizens who elected a government to deliver on it, and it has. the european union must rise to this challenge. the catalan people will not surrender. hundreds of thousands demonstrated on saturday, and we too demand, here today, the release of political prisoners.
mr president, parliament cannot judge judges, but neither can judges prohibit debates and prosecute members for raising them and voting on them. nor should they imprison members of a legitimate government - seven in all, including my dear friends and former members of parliament raül romeva and oriol junqueras - by decisions that amnesty international has sharply criticised as arbitrary. this degradation of democracy is a european matter. spanish nationalism must assume its diversity, and when millions of catalans have been unsuccessfully demanding for years to be heard, recognized and respected, organizing an unauthorized referendum to overcome the blockade is the most peaceful thing that can be done. the repression of this by means of strangulation and criminal prosecution is both unacceptable and useless. because politics, a mediation like the one tried by the basque president iñigo urkullu, is the only possible solution. please, mrs creţu, go and send this message to mr juncker: 'let the batteries be on'. they should help to find solutions and take advantage of the fact that the basques and catalans have been involved in the european project from the very beginning, convinced that federalism, free membership, is more useful, constructive and modern for europe than the indissoluble unity of any country.
mr president, one of the greatest examples of precarious employment is in the agricultural sector, a situation which is aggravated in the case of day labourers. in the field we are witnessing a regression of rights, systematic breaches of collective agreements and, in addition, fraud against social security by not paying social contributions for women workers. this is the case of the companies baena franco and agrícola espino in andalusia. both companies have used a perverse system, that of the peonadas, to commit this fraud against social security, against companies that act legally and against workers. the spanish ministry of employment recognises this obligation of employers and yet it punishes women workers, putting their livelihood at risk when contributions are not paid, as if they were the ones responsible, and looks the other way when it has to act against unscrupulous employers to whom it gives cover by maintaining this system. this fraud must be stopped, and it is very simple. we have to stop the pedantry. this is being demanded by the platform of persons affected by the per, hundreds of women of all ages who want to have a dignified life achieved through their work.
mr president, two days ago there was the most extraordinary demonstration in barcelona in recent years, and yesterday there was a great demonstration in brussels. what's going on in catalonia? there are ten political prisoners in pre-trial detention, two of them are recognized peaceful social leaders. the democratically elected catalan government has been dismissed, eight of its members are in prison, five are in exile, members of the parliament's bureau have been sentenced to preventive detention, 700 mayors have been sued, teachers have to go to court for speaking out against police brutality. you have entered printing presses and weeklies without judicial permission, you have broken the judicial guarantees with the national court assuming competences that, by law, do not correspond to it. elections have been called by someone who doesn't have the power to do so and who keeps his opponents in jail. that is not what the founding fathers of the union wanted, because that should not happen in a democratic state of the 21st century; and it does not scandalize political leaders, but it does scandalize democrats. what a shame! shame on you!
mr president, this week in this house we are going to be debating the rule of law and democracy in member states such as malta and poland, and that is a good thing. we need to have these discussions, because we cannot allow these fundamental principles and values to be eroded anywhere in the european union. but there is something else that the european institutions cannot afford. and it's the use of double standards and the use of double standards. because the reality is that in another member state, in the spanish state, we have eight members of the legitimate government of catalonia in prison, unjustly deprived of their liberty. they haven't committed any crime. they didn't steal. all they have done is put the ballot boxes in and let us vote, and besides, the judge's decision to send them to prison is a real blow to the rule of law. so let us also look at what is happening in the spanish state... (the speaker ends his speech in catalan. )
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, once again, a new massive leak of documents on tax evasion and avoidance, this time called "paradise papers". this is not a matter of circumstance, ladies and gentlemen. it is a structural issue and we must treat it as such. once again we learn about this new leak through the work of journalists and the work of filters. leakers or journalists like daphne caruana, who died doing her job. how long will we have to wait before we actually have legislation that protects whistleblowers within the european union? once again, the key role of facilitators is emphasized. facilitators of tax evasion and avoidance: banks. yes, your honours, banks. how long are we going to allow dissuasive sanctions such as the withdrawal of a banking or professional licence to go unenforced? without these facilitators, tax evasion and avoidance would not be possible. once again, politicians involved. those who have to legislate against evasion are often the first evasers. when will we take action to put an end to the obscene revolving doors and the collusion between evasers and public representatives? once again, tax shelters. how long are we going to allow tax havens to exist in the european union? how long? how can we believe in the council when we have tax havens within the council itself? look, at the next plenary session in strasbourg we have the possibility of voting on the recommendations of the committee of inquiry concerning the panama papers. we have the opportunity to send a message: either with the evasers or against the evasers. you will see, your lords.
madam president, mr moscovici has defined it well: systematic practices worldwide and organized in an organized circuit. and he says the citizens wouldn't understand our passivity. we are too lenient; they don't understand it anymore. with each new scandal we meet new names. it doesn't matter the ideology. we have leftists, rightists, from one country, from another... now we have a president of fc barcelona, a catalan secessionist, the former mayor of barcelona... it doesn't matter: all the world's elites, the criminal networks are in this business. and we have only a small part of the puzzle, and the problem, the uncomfortable question is that the member states, obsessed with their competences, cannot cope with a globalised evasion in a globalised world from a financial and economic point of view. so, mr moscovici, we are throwing water into the sea. if we don't change the paradigm, it's not going to work. and we cannot afford to be lenient. and you in the commission have no resources to see whether the rules are being implemented properly or not. the problem is that crime is globalized and states cannot act alone. and this is the terrible, miserable reality.
madam president, another major leak, another impressive work of journalistic research, more light on the turbulent world of tax evasion and avoidance and more outrage among ordinary people, who see how the richest move their money wherever it best suits their greed. everything that big fortunes and large multinationals save in taxes must be offset by higher fiscal pressure on lower-income households. if the choice is for less taxes, then public spending has to fall, so that a privileged minority wins and an immense minority loses. according to recent studies, the income eu countries lose to tax havens amounts to the equivalent of about half of public spending on higher education. how many more papers and leaks: panama, paradise, lux, football – you name it – do we need in order to take action? i call on the members of this parliament to vote for the committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (pana) report and its recommendations during the final vote in december and to set up an inquiry committee in this house.
madam president, i have to ask you. commissioner moscovici, many of us in this european parliament appreciate your position against evasion, fraud and money laundering, but we are asking for much more. we ask the commission to get busy after luxleaks, panama and the paradise papers, which are a living hell for taxpayers who want to have confidence in their institutions, and a great sacrifice for whistleblowers who can lose their lives, as happened in malta. that it should be used to the full with the member states to obtain a ban on the opening of accounts and the opening of companies in tax havens, to withdraw the licence of banks facilitating such manifestly illegal transactions, to prohibit the possibility of companies carrying out operations in tax havens being able to bid in public tenders in the european union and to achieve harmonization of tax programmes to combat evasion and fraud with an objective assessment. because otherwise we will not be able to win this battle against the intolerable and immoral of tax evasion and fraud.
madam president, luxleaks, the panama papers, the paradise papers, and so many others that i'm not quoting. how many more tax scandals do we need for the european union to act? how many more to get mr juncker and the others involved in these shady tax schemes to resign? we must sanction and prohibit capital movements to those countries and territories where no taxes are paid, where property records are not public and financial assets are opaque. the european union should therefore be involved in multilateral fora and in the implementation of european legislation, including the fourth anti-money laundering directive or the proposal for a new corporate tax base. but we must also put an end to fiscal competition within the european union itself, with demanding tax harmonization and restricting the movements of money and assets that do not correspond to real flows. otherwise, corruption and inequality will continue to destroy europe's fragile democracy.
in writing. the leaks known as the paradise papers have once again highlighted the scandalous phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance, by concealing the wealth of the richest in shell companies with no real economic activity, located in jurisdictions where they do not in practice comply with the standards for automatic exchange of information between tax administrations or where non-residents are exempt from taxation. these revelations, which are in addition to those in the 'panama papers', require the commission to publish the european list of tax havens as soon as possible, given that the oecd list does not correspond to the actual practices of many states, which manage not to be nominally classified as such. we also call on the member states to prohibit the opening of bank accounts by non-residents who do not carry out commercial activities in the states included in the future list of the european union, since the purpose of this can only be tax evasion. we spanish socialists reiterate that the unremitting fight against the great social injustice of tax fraud is an absolute priority of our political action.
in writing. the leaks known as the paradise papers have once again highlighted the scandalous phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance, by concealing the wealth of the richest in shell companies with no real economic activity, located in jurisdictions where they do not in practice comply with the standards for automatic exchange of information between tax administrations or where non-residents are exempt from taxation. these revelations, which are in addition to those in the 'panama papers', require the commission to publish the european list of tax havens as soon as possible, given that the oecd list does not correspond to the actual practices of many states, which manage not to be nominally classified as such. we also call on the member states to prohibit the opening of bank accounts by non-residents who do not carry out commercial activities in the states included in the future list of the european union, since the purpose of this can only be tax evasion. we spanish socialists reiterate that the unremitting fight against the great social injustice of tax fraud is an absolute priority of our political action.
in writing. the leaks known as the paradise papers have once again highlighted the scandalous phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance, by concealing the wealth of the richest in shell companies with no real economic activity, located in jurisdictions where they do not in practice comply with the standards for automatic exchange of information between tax administrations or where non-residents are exempt from taxation. these revelations, which are in addition to those in the 'panama papers', require the commission to publish the european list of tax havens as soon as possible, given that the oecd list does not correspond to the actual practices of many states, which manage not to be nominally classified as such. we also call on the member states to prohibit the opening of bank accounts by non-residents who do not carry out commercial activities in the states included in the future list of the european union, since the purpose of this can only be tax evasion. we spanish socialists reiterate that the unremitting fight against the great social injustice of tax fraud is an absolute priority of our political action.
in writing. we are witnessing yet another example, and there are already too many, of tax avoidance and evasion around the world being a widespread practice of the rich and corporations to hide assets, profits and wealth in general. there is a gigantic machine doing this work and the operational basis of these practices is the opacity of tax havens. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. tax evasion is a torpedo on the balance sheet of the credibility of our democratic institutions and together with inequality and the devaluation of the social and labour market it is putting the european social and legal state at risk. it is urgent: - that before the end of the year the eu approves the list of tax havens outside and inside the eu. - to establish a framework for sanctions against the countries on that list and the intermediaries operating in them. - that a summit be convened at the united nations to coordinate international efforts to end these practices.
in writing. the leaks known as the paradise papers have once again highlighted the scandalous phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance, by concealing the wealth of the richest in shell companies with no real economic activity, located in jurisdictions where they do not in practice comply with the standards for automatic exchange of information between tax administrations or where non-residents are exempt from taxation. these revelations, which are in addition to those in the 'panama papers', require the commission to publish the european list of tax havens as soon as possible, given that the oecd list does not correspond to the actual practices of many states, which manage not to be nominally classified as such. we also call on the member states to prohibit the opening of bank accounts by non-residents who do not carry out commercial activities in the states included in the future list of the european union, since the purpose of this can only be tax evasion. we spanish socialists reiterate that the unremitting fight against the great social injustice of tax fraud is an absolute priority of our political action.
in writing. the leaks known as the paradise papers have once again highlighted the scandalous phenomenon of tax evasion and avoidance, by concealing the wealth of the richest in shell companies with no real economic activity, located in jurisdictions where they do not in practice comply with the standards for automatic exchange of information between tax administrations or where non-residents are exempt from taxation. these revelations, which are in addition to those in the 'panama papers', require the commission to publish the european list of tax havens as soon as possible, given that the oecd list does not correspond to the actual practices of many states, which manage not to be nominally classified as such. we also call on the member states to prohibit the opening of bank accounts by non-residents who do not carry out commercial activities in the states included in the future list of the european union, since the purpose of this can only be tax evasion. we spanish socialists reiterate that the unremitting fight against the great social injustice of tax fraud is an absolute priority of our political action.
the rapporteur. - mr president, europe is ageing. 80% of the population is in 20% of the territory. our rural environment is dying and urgent measures are needed from the european union to combat depopulation. but i would like to draw the house's attention today to the statements made yesterday by mr korwin-mikke in relation to this debate, in which he said that we are the ones responsible for depopulation. that he gave us for going out to work and not for staying in our homes having children. this is an insult to women. (loud applause) an insult to the women who have decided to be free to work inside or outside our homes. we've decided to be free to decide whether we want to be mothers or not. i therefore ask the bureau to look at these statements and see if there is any possibility of sanctioning them, because it is totally unacceptable. (applause and cheers) and i want to tell you ladies that the ones who really should be staying in your house are the misogynists who don't respect the women we've decided to be free. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this good report on a subject of the utmost importance, namely that road safety in the european union causes some 25 500 deaths and more than 135 000 serious injuries a year, which is an absolutely dramatic figure. half of the victims are in urban environments and statistics show that while the number and severity of accidents inside vehicles is decreasing, the percentage of victims among non-motorized users, pedestrians and cyclists, is continuing to increase. better vehicle design, automatic warning systems, reducing the blood alcohol level - we have made a lot of progress on these issues and we will continue to make progress, but today, now, we must push our cities to prioritise this issue in their urban agendas and adopt measures that, with minimal and perfectly acceptable costs, have enormous effects on the safety of their inhabitants, such as limiting the speed of urban circulation, limiting the number of private vehicles in the urban area and opting for public and quality public transport that guarantees accessible, inclusive and safe mobility for all.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, common values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights are the cornerstone of the european union. each member state must therefore respect, protect and promote them. three weeks ago i intervened in this chamber after the assassination of daphne caruana galizia. we all condemned this barbaric crime and expressed the expectation that the perpetrators would be brought to justice. we were all in agreement that media freedom is an indispensable pillar of our democratic societies. for this reason, freedom of expression, media freedom and pluralism are guaranteed in the eu charter of fundamental rights. they are among the core basic democratic values on which the european union is founded. in october, the council held its annual rule of law dialogue, which was an important opportunity to take a critical look at the rule of law situation in the member states and the union. this year the dialogue was about media pluralism in the digital age and about the challenges that the digital age brings to the rule of law. in the context of that debate, all member states agreed that free, reliable and pluralistic media underpins effective democracy. the continued debate on these issues shows again that the protection and promotion of the rule of law and human rights are a constant challenge. this challenge requires unwavering attention and efforts across different policy areas. our core values are put to the test every day. our societies are still facing multiple inter—related crises, be it in the area of migration or internal security. discussions such as the one today are important. our citizens must be able to have trust in the functioning of our democratic institutions. we commend the maltese government for having acted immediately as news broke of the assassination to ensure that justice is done. the maltese authorities also opened up their investigations and sought international assistance. the police force asked for assistance and teamed up with the american fbi, dutch and italian forensic forces, as well as europol, to make sure that no stone is left unturned in the investigation. i would like to recall the readiness of the member states to help in all matters as needed. malta has shown that its institutions are well—functioning in responding to this challenge. ensuring the rule of law is an absolute priority and has to be our joint commitment – of the member states and of eu institutions together. equally, fundamental rights need to be upheld and defended as our best guarantee for sustaining stable, open and free societies. we trust that the maltese authorities will ensure that justice will be delivered in the case of the murder of daphne caruana galizia. i will listen to the debate with great interest.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, it has been ten days since the world witnessed daphne caruana galizia’s funeral in malta. a nation in mourning. we all saw it. the commission condemned this brutal assassination in the strongest words possible. the rights of a journalist and blogger to investigate, to ask uncomfortable questions and to report effectively is at the heart of our values and needs to be guaranteed at all times. there can be no free and democratic societies without free media. the commission takes the view that ensuring an independent and thorough investigation of the facts and bringing those responsible to justice must be the top priority for the maltese government. the maltese authorities and institutions must deliver on their clear commitment to do everything in their power to ensure that the perpetrators will be brought to justice. more generally, malta needs to show to europe – and indeed the world – that its rules and regulations are healthy and robust. this is why it is important that the maltese government has indicated that the investigation and prosecution should be allowed to run their full course regardless of the consequences. i want to add that, on every occasion that i have to talk to members of the maltese government, i make this point and it is acknowledged by them that they will do so and that they will commit to that. but this also includes making sure that the rules that we agreed at european level are implemented on the ground. the fight against money laundering, for instance, is a key priority for the commission in this respect. with regard to the issue of money laundering in malta, the commission has conducted a fact-finding exercise and an analysis. the guiding principle was to identify quality and reliable data. the facts as they resulted from our analysis – and let me stress this – raise no general concerns on malta’s overall compliance. however, improvements could be made on various levels. in this context, the commission recently sent a letter to the maltese authorities regarding follow-up investigations to recommendations after the maltese financial intelligence and analysis unit published its report, and we are now carefully studying their comprehensive reply. as part of our efforts in the fight against money laundering, moreover, we are making sure that all member states, including malta, adopt the necessary provisions to transpose the fourth anti—money laundering directive. the commission decision on infringement proceedings against those member states which have not yet notified their national transposition laws is imminent. we encourage those member states to adopt the necessary rules now, without further delay. the commission regularly collects data on the functioning of the judicial systems of all member states in the eu justice scoreboard, and we are monitoring corruption in member states as part of the european semester. the commission agrees with parliament that we need to improve the protection of whistle—blowers throughout the eu. the revision of the fourth anti—money laundering directive, currently under negotiation between parliament and the council, will enhance the powers of the competent authorities to prevent and fight money laundering. i hope that this legislation will be adopted soon. finally, the commission encourages malta to swiftly join the european public prosecutor’s office. this would send a strong positive signal of malta’s commitment to working actively together in the area of freedom, security and justice. in conclusion, let me say that every time i have the occasion to meet with the maltese authorities – i met with the minister for european affairs and equality, ms dalli, and the minister for justice, culture and local government, mr bonnici, last week – they have clearly expressed their determination to do whatever is necessary to make sure that these things are implemented to the full, and also to make sure that those responsible for this atrocious crime are brought to justice. the commitment of the maltese government on this was made very clear to all its partners in europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, this thursday it will be one month since the murder of daphne caruana galizia and we do not yet know who killed her, who ordered the killing and who supported the killers. i am ashamed, and we all should be ashamed because without this killing we would never have known here what happens in malta: journalists being harassed, denounced and even killed, media houses being blackmailed by banks suspected of money laundering and tax evasion, high government officials suspected of being implicated also in the same operations, and police authorities refusing to investigate those allegations because they have been appointed by and have economic and personal ties with the government. we cannot remain silent, so today we ask for three concrete actions. first, we want the commission to immediately launch a rule of law dialogue with malta. second, we want the maltese authorities to investigate and to prosecute money laundering, no matter the names or the organisations implicated. thirdly, we want an independent and international investigation into the killing of daphne caruana galizia. we have to say, loud and clear, that europe’s values and principles are much more important than money. daphne’s moral legacy belongs to europe now. europe is about justice, about separation of powers and about the rule of law. everybody knows that. but europe is also about freedom, transparency and truth. every time europe has faced the abyss, the ballpoint pen of a journalist has been the last defensive line for our democracy. this is the europe daphne caruana galizia dreamed of and wanted, and so do we.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, malta: 436 000 inhabitants and a handful of heroes. since october 16th, one less person of integrity. daphne caruana was forced to behave heroically because some inhabitants did not want or want to know, others consent, others remain silent, while some are corrupting banks and spaces of power. the leaks of money laundering at international level have put malta in the spotlight. the rule of law has failed and daphne suffered civil and economic death, lawsuits, accounts frozen before her murder. every european citizen should know about daphne's murder, because her handlers can't control everything. commissioner moscovici this morning said that there is a systematic and organised worldwide practice of tax evasion and avoidance. one leak after another, one journalistic investigation after another... we know that the supervisory bodies are failing, the member states are failing, the lists of tax havens are failing. but in some places, corruption reaches the heart of the state, and when this happens, freedom of speech formally exists, but it carries risks. daphne has collaborated with this parliament through the panama papers commission of inquiry headed by mr langen, who is here. thanks to the leaks, we have been able to get a systematic overview of how national legislation and the rules of national and international control and monitoring bodies are circumvented; how organized crime and certain oligarchs act globally. for more than a year now, in the committee of inquiry into the panama papers, we have been pointing out that there is a structural problem in malta which is undermining democracy because of this global scourge. in malta, but not only in malta - and i say this with sadness - in my country too, with enough money citizenship is bought, and that should be prohibited. daphne worked the maltese tracks. she told everything she knew, and now our duty is not to forget, to avoid impunity, but not only for her murder, but also for what she denounced and why she was killed. we must do so in self-defense, because these forms of crime that he denounced can rot away in every one of our democracies. the commission and the council cannot afford to cry crocodile tears against impunity. mr timmermans, mr juncker must put his friendship with mr muscat under quarantine until the murder and the situation of democracy in malta are clarified. in the 21st century, democracy is being played against populists, but also against international crime. our resolution must therefore be translated into action.
madam president, i will focus only on points 5 and 6 of our resolution on malta. point 5 expresses concerns about the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights, including freedom of the media, independence of the police and judiciary. point 6 calls on the commission, the council and parliament to establish a dialogue with the maltese government. thus, concern and dialogue with a member state. but a similar concern and wish for dialogue in relation to spain is not shown by the european union institutions, in spite of having there more than strong signals of breaches of the rule of law, of democracy and of fundamental rights. there the police have brutally beaten peaceful people; the central government has sacked a democratically elected regional government; half of this government is in prison, the other half in exile; the president of the parliament was sent to prison; 700 mayors are judicially indicted. do we need more? there is more. why this unequal treatment? i ask mr timmermans: are the european institutions applying the principle of be strong with the weak, be weak with strong?
madam president, commissioner timmermans, in the last eighteen months six car bombs have exploded in the smallest country in the european union, which does not have a widespread crime problem: malta. the last of them has carried forward the life of daphne caruana galizia, which shows supremely the insuperable sacrifice of the whistleblowers who have the courage to work for the exposure to the public of the unacceptable, corruption, seeking transparency and serving freedom of expression. the sacrifice of one's own life has indeed taken place in malta, which has no general problem of a decline in freedoms or the rule of law. it does have a problem of a financial system accustomed to the unacceptable practices of raising money of illicit origin and unfair tax competition, extremely vulnerable to the penetration of money from organised crime and money laundering. and so malta must make an effort and show very clearly its commitment to reparation, not only by urging a full and independent investigation in which europol and interpol cooperate in the clarification of each and every one of the crimes and, above all, this one. but as daphne caruana's children, andrew, matthew and paul, dramatically ask us, malta has much more to do. it must combat that corruption in its financial system by joining the european public prosecutor's office as a crucial tool for the investigation of serious transnational crime. because that will be the definitive sign that her sacrifice was not in vain and that the european union is prepared to take the final steps to repair the vulnerability of the maltese financial system and to make good the work for which daphne caruana galicia sacrificed her life. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. no european institution can shy away from the commitment to strengthen the rule of law now that it is so threatened, but particularly in the face of organised crime, which is surely the most devastating threat. and one form of organized crime, certainly, is corruption and money laundering from illicit business. we were discussing it here this morning in relation to the paradise papers, which are hell for taxpayers who pay their taxes honestly and want to have confidence in their institutions. the european union has a duty to help the victims of crime, and the european union has a duty to help the victims of crime.
madam president, i would like to say that i do not think there is any difference between us in expressing the feeling that the murder of daphne caruana produced. i believe that we condemn the murder with equal force and defend the same european values in relation to malta and the countries of the european union. the leap that i might in all honesty wish to take is the one i dare not take to flirt or to link that crime with the state. i do not dare to draw a direct link between that crime and the destruction of the rule of law in malta. i demand justice, but i do not condemn a country. i demand an independent investigation and that those responsible be brought to justice, but i do not question the separation of powers in malta. i believe that malta must be called upon, and we are all united in this, to find the murderers, bring them to justice, put an end to the mafias and the organizations linked to dirty money and put an end to tax fraud. we all agree on that.
madam president, i want you to listen to what daphne said 30 minutes before she was killed: 'wherever you look, there are criminals everywhere. what you saw, daphne, was organized crime sitting comfortably in the country, a nest of organized crime. you saw money laundering facilitated by banks; you saw persecution against the hostile press, death penalty for free and uncomfortable journalism. that's what you saw. you also saw a police that does not investigate and a government that says but does not do. malta does not deserve what is happening. it is essential that the independent press has its space of freedom, that the maltese government and the police forces are involved in the investigation into the murder of daphne caruana galizia. security in a democracy is an essential issue, linked to the strength or weakness of the rule of law. i am very pleased that two europol officials are already in valletta on a permanent basis to help clarify this murder. and finally, mr timmermans, i would ask the commission to engage immediately in a dialogue with the maltese authorities on the rule of law.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, last year's election of the president of the united states has not only changed the foreign policy of this country - we have seen the recent visit to asia, or to china, russia, iran or cuba - but above all and fundamentally trade policy. the ttip negotiations have been suspended, the decision not to ratify the trans-pacific agreement has been taken, the nafta agreement has been revised and, above all, a whole series of protectionist measures have been adopted. it must be said, madam commissioner, that the commission has reacted quickly and effectively, launching a whole series of very important negotiations at bilateral and regional level. it is in this context that the meeting of the ministerial organisation of the world trade organisation, which the commissioner described in her opening statement as critical, is taking place. and this is not just about keeping to the agenda, which is supported by parliament's resolution, but above all about trying to ensure that the principles of multilateralism which the world trade organisation represents survive. non-discrimination, progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of trade through dialogue, predictability and legal certainty and the settlement of disputes. that is why, commissioner, this meeting in buenos aires is very important. we trust the commission and hope that the multilateral round and the ongoing bilateral negotiations - japan, mercosur, mexico and chile - will prosper successfully and in time. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i think this is a question more directed at the commission than at me. the commissioner herself said that we are in a critical situation. i share that statement and i believe that trade is progress, that trade is peace, and i believe that the walls, the walls, today are in the paleolithic period of european history. and what we have to build, as commissioner malmström often says, is bridges and not walls. it is clear that these negotiations are very important. they have their sensitivities on both sides, but i think that logically we should aspire to build and to conclude successfully... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i have to say... i thank you very much, commissioner, for your work and your defence of multilateralism and the wto, and of course i also congratulate both parties. we all know how difficult it is to reach international agreements, but we also know that they are essential for the defence of peace and stability in the world. it is true that the wto needs to be reformed, but, as you have just said, with concrete proposals. we cannot use multilateral bodies as a pretext for misguided defence of national interests or block any progress towards global trade governance. we are seeing trump's protectionist threats become reality as he blocks the election of members of the wto appellate body, putting at risk the very raison d'être of this organization. in the face of trump's 'america first', we in the european union defend 'people first'. and that's why the yes vote tomorrow is so important. to support the commission in its negotiations before the next ministerial conference in buenos aires and of course also to take account of the recommendations of this parliament so that we can move forward and update the doha development agenda, ensure fair and sustainable trade in agricultural and fishery products, effectively achieve a permanent solution for the public food security reserve and face new challenges. it is also important in the area of e-commerce, in the area of smes and of course in including the gender dimension in trade policy. i'm through, chairman. i ask for majority support for this report. (the president cut the speaker off)
the wto (world trade organization) is an instrument of neoliberalism which promotes the globalisation of markets through liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation. the economic prosperity it promises does not exist, the rules it imposes and the free trade agreements it promotes are designed to make it easier for transnational corporations to continue to reap huge profits at the expense of the ever-increasing exploitation of the working class, the peasantry, indigenous peoples, the land, territories and natural resources. through the wto and free trade agreements, big corporations are trying to usurp the sovereignty of the people, undermining the ability of democratically elected governments to take legislative action that protects the rights of the people and the environment against the abuses of the multinationals. agriculture, public services, medicines and common goods must be outside the wto's purview.
in writing. i consider it very regrettable that the eu continues to promote policies that undermine the well-being of european citizens, and that is why we reject the current eastern neighbourhood policy. the eastern partnership policy represents the eu's instrument for geopolitical rivalry with russia in the common neighbourhood and therefore causes instability and insecurity in the eu's eastern neighbourhood. it ignores the historical, economic, cultural and human relations of these countries with russia. it was developed as a tool for offensive strategies towards the relationship with the key neighbor - russia - and dismissed its political, economic and security interests. while the eu made progress in developing relations with the countries of the common neighbourhood, negotiations on strategic partnership agreements with russia failed. this development culminates in a policy of confrontation between the west and russia. in addition, the enp has never clarified its ambiguous relationship with eu enlargement, raised expectations about accession, which the eu is not prepared to meet, and does not address the structural problems of poverty, unemployment and sustainable growth.
madam speaker, the truth is i'm very glad that i'm playing this role here today and the rest of the legislature. commissioner, in the face of protectionist tendencies, we socialists are in favour of fair trade opening up. in the face of those who promote excessive globalisation, we are committed to setting standards to ensure that we all compete on the same playing field. the reform of the anti-dumping regulation which we are going to adopt tomorrow is born precisely from this double conviction and i thank you for your excellent work, mrs malmström. the union must fulfil its commitments under the world trade organisation, but it cannot stand by idly in the face of unfair competition from third countries. we must take firm action against those who do not respect the rules of the market economy and defend the survival and growth of some of our most innovative sectors, such as ceramics, textiles, photovoltaics and steel, which employ millions of people in europe and which continue to face daily dumping from subsidised economies. it is true that this regulation is a great step forward, but it is also true that the council must now, once and for all, allow for modern, effective and more ambitious instruments of trade defence.
madam president, china's entry into the wto required changing the rules of multilateral trade if we did not want to increase global inequalities. unfortunately, the european union is prepared to allow full trade liberalisation with china, abruptly dismantling existing protections to consolidate the neoliberal model of globalisation. we wanted to include the fight against social and environmental dumping in the european union's anti-dumping instruments, but the proposal which is to be voted on contains no binding commitments, only loose and generic criteria, and the burden of proof is lifted. the european union, on the other hand, is demanding that wto countries liberalize and privatise their economies if they do not want to be accused of distorting foreign trade, exacerbating fierce competition between countries and between workers. we do not want chinese workers to be exploited by the same multinationals that are sending thousands of european workers to unemployment.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague and friend, salvatore cicu, on the great work he has done. i know that it has been a long and complicated negotiation, but a satisfactory result has been reached. with this new methodology we will be stronger in protecting our industry and european citizens from the negative consequences of globalisation. our economy is threatened by unfair trade policies. our markets are in danger of being flooded with products made in third countries which do not meet our standards. i am a staunch supporter of free trade, but to ensure that all countries reap the same benefits, it is essential that we all play by the same rules, respecting international labour, social and environmental standards, and thus avoiding any kind of dumping. this new legislation is fully compatible with the wto, so we ensure that our industries can defend themselves against unfair trade practices.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, relations between the european union and africa must not be in the union's exclusive interests. neither geostrategic, such as the outsourcing of our borders to control migration flows, nor trade and investment, such as the pursuit of exclusive profit for european companies and capital. these relations should be based on mutual understanding and cooperation among equals, overcoming colonialism and patronizing behaviour, and effectively addressing the common challenges we have such as climate change, poverty and inequality and achieving the sustainable development goals, which, together with the strengthening of human rights, should be the key objectives of the european union-africa strategy. all external action for africa must be subsidiary to this objective, and to do so we should promote fair trade; promote social and solidarity-based economies; contribute to private sector accountability by including due diligence clauses in trade agreements, thus ensuring the sustainability of value chains; not increase debt unsustainability, following unctad principles on responsible sovereign lending and borrowing; strengthen tax systems and fight tax evasion and avoidance, which are bleeding their domestic resources. as long as human rights and the sustainable development goals are not at the centre, we will also be complicit in the increase of poverty, inequality and, ultimately, the root causes of forced migration.
mr president, it is more than likely that africa is the cradle of humanity, but it is absolutely certain that it is the untimely grave of tens of millions of people who are victims of poverty, victims of exclusion, victims of armed conflict, people forced to migrate in conditions of maximum risk. but africa is also a country of resources, a continent of opportunity, full of talent and full of ambition for the future. we cannot solve their problems, but we can help them to do so, and to help them, we have to give them unconditional help. we need to invest in productive matters. we must reach fair partnership agreements with them and we must have a relationship of equality, mutual respect, support for governance, cooperation, to ensure that this continent, which is a martyr today, will be a continent of hope in the future.
mr president, with the fifth africa-european union summit just around the corner, we need a more equal partnership between the european union and africa, based on development and mutual respect, in order to tackle global problems such as the fight against poverty or peace, and to promote a relationship based on the inalienable right of peoples to choose their own economic, political and social system, without external interference. the strategic partnership between africa and the eu over the past ten years has furthered the neo-colonial interests of certain states, and even multinational corporations, at the expense of the people. the trap of development aid in the form of loans increases the unsustainable debt of african countries. the aid must be without usurious conditions. the eu's strategy with africa should not be linked to the priorities chosen by donors and should not be linked to the control of migration and refugee flows. the eu's pressure to conclude pacts on migration and attempts to externalize borders are regrettable in this respect.
mr president, africa is and must be a priority area for our external action, because of its history, its geography, its human and economic links. i welcome the fact that youth and employment are the main topics of the forthcoming european union-african union summit in abidjan. these are crucial fields for the prosperity of the continent. one of our main challenges is to help create physical, legal and institutional security, the three necessary for development in africa to be consolidated to generate greater stability and better opportunities; in other words, and following mr ponga's report, to deepen political, economic, social, environmental and security resilience. the european union is also committed to the development of the internal market and to the promotion of the free movement of persons. this is a complex issue which requires a policy of comprehensive cooperation with the countries of origin and transit, so that everyone benefits, as was agreed at the valletta summit. i hope, mr president, that the abidjan summit will serve to further deepen and update the important relationship between the european union and its neighbour, africa.
mr president, africa is our closest neighbour, a key strategic partner of the european union. and that is why it is of the utmost importance to intensify our relations with this continent. the excellent report by mr ponga emphasizes two major challenges, namely sustainable development and job creation, especially for women and young people. while europe's population is ageing day by day, africa has the highest percentage of young people in the world. we must take advantage of this situation to create synergies that benefit both regions, while controlling flows. and the best way to control these flows is to invest in africa. we are the main trading partner of the african continent, the largest partner in development cooperation, and this cooperation should translate into increased european investment in major public works in african countries. the abidjan summit is a great opportunity for the european union to make clear its true commitment to africa.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr korwinmikke, every time you open your mouth, i think poland is ashamed. i mean it. i believe that poland is in everyone's heart and we all love poland. we love their freedom, we adore their courage, we adore their innovation and what they've accomplished. and you are here to tell us that if we agree that the party that is ruling now, that is destroying the rule of law in poland, is improving in popularity because it has an anti-gay stance like yours regarding women? do you also think that we should eliminate, take away the voice of women? do you want me to stop asking you? do you want me to stop telling him? europe loves poland because poland is europe. and i represent the poles as much as you do. and i think it's for the best. can you answer me?
mr president, commissioner timmermans, whenever we discuss the rule of law in poland in this european parliament, it is clear that this european parliament has no problem with poland, a beloved country, or with the poles. it has a problem when the far right, fascist, white supremacist and loaded with hate speech and discrimination, demonstrates in warsaw - do it in warsaw or do it anywhere in europe. and he has a problem when it comes to the independence of the judiciary. because if in spain, whoever breaks the law, whoever breaks the rule of law, is criminally liable, it is because there is an independent judiciary, and what is happening in poland is exactly the opposite, that the independence of the judiciary is being undermined. and it is against european values and european integration if one does not understand that this european parliament, when it speaks of poland, represents the poles. each member of the european parliament represents 500 million europeans. and this european parliament is not an alien in poland: it represents those millions of poles who have the right to trust in their institutions, in the rule of law and in the rule of law and the constitution, and it also protects poles in the name of european law.
mr president, i have to say... you've noticed how cold it is in strasbourg, haven't you? can you imagine spending the night with your family in a tent that was made for summer, not winter, and that this is going to be your reality all through this winter, for a year and for two years? for that is the harsh punishment which, by the action or omission of some, europe is inflicting on human beings whose only sin is to try to survive. so we demand that the greek government not keep these people on the islands. have them transferred to the mainland as a matter of urgency so that we can attend to them. and we call on the other council presidents to develop once and for all the solidarity and responsibility that europe has towards these people. to the council. i'd really like you to hear it. in fact, the original sin of all this probably lies in our agreement with turkey, but the guilty ones are not the citizens who are being held on the greek islands. it's all right. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. no, i don't think that's unfair to you. everyone has a responsibility here. i do not want to hold the greek government responsible: i ask the greek government to at least bring these people to the mainland so that they can be cared for. it is clear that the responsibility is not only that of the greek government. the responsibility lies with all of us, with all the governments of the european union and with the european union itself. and in us, who are incapable, with the institutions we have, of treating with dignity people who have committed no crime. let's share the responsibility and find a solution.
mr president, it is indeed a question of preventing history, the tragic history, from repeating itself this winter. look, i was in moira and kara tepe and unfortunately i can confirm that the container rooms are freezers in winter and ovens in summer. listen to what one asylum seeker told me: "living in moira makes us sick; in winter it's freezing, everything is wet; last winter we burned paper and plastic to keep warm. it's like we're not human beings. end of the date. we are aware, commissioner, of your efforts and your commitment to solidarity, but we must give an effective response based on the principle of solidarity, as required by article 88 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we must work together with the institutions and the member states to achieve decent living conditions for asylum seekers. above all, we must manage and ask for explanations about the mismanagement of the funds that are applied for this purpose. we must call on the member states to move the relocation process forward effectively. the reality is that greece alone cannot. there are 50,000 people inside greece who should be receiving community aid. finally, mr president, special attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups: children, women and the elderly. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue card question. what is it? mr president, i would like to ask my colleague, mr díaz de mera, what he thinks of the implementation of the relocation and the share that spain had taken on. because, of course, we are all talking today - and you have also done so - about the lack of solidarity of the member states, but one of the most disunited countries on this issue has been spain. i would like to know what your assessment is of the implementation of the relocation programme in relation to spain.
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you very much for asking. i would like to say that spain's commitment is unmistakably firm. recently, in a meeting of the competent minister at the congress of deputies, he said that they are ready to fulfill all their commitments and that the problem is in the hotspots, which are not able to react in time. that is why i have spoken of management; management which means identifying, distributing and transferring. when that is resolved, of course spain must be prepared to honour its commitment.
mr president, i have to say... winter plan for asylum seekers this european parliament cannot stop the seasons, nor can it keep the winter cold, but it can and must change european policy and the way it is implemented. and the measures to increase staffing - doctors, lawyers, interpreters - particularly for vulnerable people, are palliative. what really needs to change is the policy that has prevented the relocation plan from being implemented. and it must order the transfer to the mainland and, therefore, to a safe, stable and lasting place, of all those people who suffer horribly from the overcrowding in those hotspots located on islands, and particularly of the most vulnerable people: women and children. that is what must be changed, and it cannot be subjected either to conditions of impossible compliance, such as those imposed by the last relocation plan, or to resignation, to the absence of political will on the part of the member states and their governments to comply with european law.
in writing. winter is here and we are still facing the same or even greater shortcomings than a year ago in covering the basic needs of thousands of migrants and asylum seekers - including many women and children - stranded on the greek islands. on samos and lesbos, prepared to accommodate 3,000 people, over 8,000 are crammed in, without adequate access to water, food, medical care or even a roof over their heads. the socialists have succeeded in bringing this debate to the plenary, but unfortunately a majority of political groups on both our right and left have prevented the adoption of a resolution in which parliament calls for concrete measures from both the commission and the council. we call on the greek government to end the policy of containment and urgent transfers to the continent to allow for dignified treatment and to prevent a new tragedy this winter, and we call on the other european governments, once and for all, to show a minimum of solidarity to ease the pressure on greece and to give a dignified exit to these thousands of human beings who have committed no crime and who require our protection.
in writing. winter is here and we are still facing the same or even greater shortcomings than a year ago in covering the basic needs of thousands of migrants and asylum seekers - including many women and children - stranded on the greek islands. on samos and lesbos, prepared to accommodate 3,000 people, over 8,000 are crammed in, without adequate access to water, food, medical care or even a roof over their heads. the socialists have succeeded in bringing this debate to the plenary, but unfortunately a majority of political groups on both our right and left have prevented the adoption of a resolution in which parliament calls for concrete measures from both the commission and the council. we call on the greek government to end the policy of containment and urgent transfers to the continent to allow for dignified treatment and to prevent a new tragedy this winter, and we call on the other european governments, once and for all, to show a minimum of solidarity to ease the pressure on greece and to give a dignified exit to these thousands of human beings who have committed no crime and who require our protection.
in writing. winter is here and we are still facing the same or even greater shortcomings than a year ago in covering the basic needs of thousands of migrants and asylum seekers - including many women and children - stranded on the greek islands. on samos and lesbos, prepared to accommodate 3,000 people, over 8,000 are crammed in, without adequate access to water, food, medical care or even a roof over their heads. the socialists have succeeded in bringing this debate to the plenary, but unfortunately a majority of political groups on both our right and left have prevented the adoption of a resolution in which parliament calls for concrete measures from both the commission and the council. we call on the greek government to end the policy of containment and urgent transfers to the continent to allow for dignified treatment and to prevent a new tragedy this winter, and we call on the other european governments, once and for all, to show a minimum of solidarity to ease the pressure on greece and to give a dignified exit to these thousands of human beings who have committed no crime and who require our protection.
in writing. winter is here and we are still facing the same or even greater shortcomings than a year ago in covering the basic needs of thousands of migrants and asylum seekers - including many women and children - stranded on the greek islands. on samos and lesbos, prepared to accommodate 3,000 people, over 8,000 are crammed in, without adequate access to water, food, medical care or even a roof over their heads. the socialists have succeeded in bringing this debate to the plenary, but unfortunately a majority of political groups on both our right and left have prevented the adoption of a resolution in which parliament calls for concrete measures from both the commission and the council. we call on the greek government to end the policy of containment and urgent transfers to the continent to allow for dignified treatment and to prevent a new tragedy this winter, and we call on the other european governments, once and for all, to show a minimum of solidarity to ease the pressure on greece and to give a dignified exit to these thousands of human beings who have committed no crime and who require our protection.
in writing. winter is here and we are still facing the same or even greater shortcomings than a year ago in covering the basic needs of thousands of migrants and asylum seekers - including many women and children - stranded on the greek islands. on samos and lesbos, prepared to accommodate 3,000 people, over 8,000 are crammed in, without adequate access to water, food, medical care or even a roof over their heads. the socialists have succeeded in bringing this debate to the plenary, but unfortunately a majority of political groups on both our right and left have prevented the adoption of a resolution in which parliament calls for concrete measures from both the commission and the council. we call on the greek government to end the policy of containment and urgent transfers to the continent to allow for dignified treatment and to prevent a new tragedy this winter, and we call on the other european governments, once and for all, to show a minimum of solidarity to ease the pressure on greece and to give a dignified exit to these thousands of human beings who have committed no crime and who require our protection.
madam president, we are glad that the problems of dumping in key industrial sectors of our economy, such as steel, are finally being tackled, albeit with less determination than is unfortunately necessary. however, this report does include references to social and environmental dumping, which is a step forward. but unfortunately, they're just that, references. in the legal part of the text, wage dumping or environmental dumping disappears. but we're not buying into the lobbying bullshit. dumping is just one of the problems in our industry. the european union has been opening up unregulated markets, deregulating and separating industry from public control for over a decade. in turn, they gave unparalleled power to industry lobbies: millions of euros in profits dropped from the sky with the implementation of the failed carbon market. what we need is a progressive industrial policy which gives future to strategic productive sectors, makes them environmentally sustainable, is social and supportive and ensures the local integration of the territories with industry.
madam president, i voted in favour of this resolution. i would like to stress a few points in particular, which is why i have tabled my explanation of vote. i prefer multilateral trade that is regulated. in the face of this globalisation, it is the only way to ensure that we have rules and that the weak can survive in the face of this globalisation. but there are three proposals in the resolution which i would like to stress. number 8, in which he highlights the importance of achieving the 2030 sustainable development goals and the commitments of the paris agreement. climate change is a global problem that all countries must address. also in the resolution, paragraph 9 reiterates the link between gender equality and inclusive development, stressing that women's empowerment is indispensable to eradicate poverty. and point 6, which deals with agriculture, and which stresses that possible outcomes must not take precedence over discussions on the future of peace.
mr president, a hundred years after 1917, a ghost is haunting europe, but it is not the ghost of communism in marx's manifesto that inspired the bolsheviks. it is the specter of populism, often tinged with reactionary nationalism, that reminds us of some important lessons. the first is that no rights and no freedoms are ever won forever, not even in the european union. second, that it is a sad paradox to maintain resistance to a dying regime by resurrecting its ghosts. and that can happen to anyone who maintains an anti-soviet or anti-russian rhetoric in imitation of the putin regime, or to anyone who maintains an anti-fascist or anti-franco rhetoric forty-two years after franco's death while practicing from some instance of political power a restriction of pluralism, of freedoms, or a denial of differences and of the right to coexist under law and law, breaking the rule of law. so the most important thing, if there is a lesson to be learned, is that there is nothing so anti-european as the denial of the rule of law as a technique for peaceful conflict resolution and as a democratic conquest of civilization.
mr president, i have to say... first, i'm sorry for abandoning you for decades behind the iron curtain. second, a fact: three years after the winter palace was taken the same sailors who helped the bolsheviks take power rebelled in kronstadt and were crushed by the red army. they called for elections with secret ballot, freedom of speech and press, freedom of assembly, freedom of work and production. it was not what the communist propaganda promised. there was a dictatorship of a ruling caste with absolute power over life and death for decades. the bolsheviks were followed by other populists, propaganda and anti-democratic tensions of opposite signs. we learned the hard way that the end does not justify the means. today, other forms of populism, lies, propaganda and anti-democratic tensions are playing against the european union and its freedoms. in catalonia, for example, outside agents have led lies, propaganda, fakes to weaken spain, seeking to weaken the future of democracy across europe. the challenge is to unmask, now too, the tyrant's apprentices, some ambushed in putin's russia or maduro's venezuela.
mr president, mr timmermans, you have said that you feel the collective responsibility of the whole of europe and that you will help to prevent us from repeating mistakes by promoting democratic memory. it is therefore obliged to receive and listen to the associations of victims and the families of the more than 150 000 people killed by the franco dictatorship. and to see, as the un or the council of europe say, that they are still suffering today because they are looking for more than 150 000 murdered. because they live with a sense of truth, justice and reparation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the community. the spanish transition was a possible one. he changed us for the better. but we must face their original sins once and for all. amnesia is one of them. they treat the victims of francoism the same as those of communism or nazism. and i ask you to include the spanish authorities among those who should be called upon to do a great deal better in recovering democratic memory. if you do, we'll be grateful to you.
mr. president, eight people have the same wealth as the poorest half of humanity. millions of women are exploited in textile factories producing, for example, for inditex. sixty-five million people in the world displaced by conflict or human rights violations. and a planet that's dying for us from deforestation, pollution of the seas and global warming. this is the result of capitalism: horror, barbarism and exploitation. so the question is not how can we remain communists. the question is whether there is still anyone so irresponsible as to defend capitalism. one hundred years after the revolution that triumphed with the slogan of "peace, bread and land" in the country of the people that defeated the nazis, the sharing of wealth in the world, feminism, socialism, that is, that no one suffers so that others can live better, is not only the fairest option but, moreover, it is the only viable one. and what terrifies you is knowing that once it happened, that once the exploited people rose up, and that it will happen again.
mr. president, it is an unfathomable mystery to me that today, in 2017, there is still someone who considers lenin a genius, someone whose work was overshadowed by stalin, because that is false. lenin was a populist and a dictator who used terror systematically. lenin taught stalin the path of genocide and that is his true legacy. yes, in spain, in my country, there are populists like pablo iglesias who call the dictator lenin a genius and who are going to celebrate the centenary of the bolshevik revolution precisely in bolivia, just as evo morales declares his intention to lead his country in the direction of cuba or venezuela. there are also leaders like the united left, alberto garzón, who pays tribute to lenin on social networks. or there are also anti-system separatist parties, such as the cup, which use posters inspired by leninism for their propaganda. yes, there are still some who aspire to be lenin, but not in the tsarist russia of 1917 but in the democratic europe of 2017. let us look after lenin's legacy. let us be careful of the leninist legacy, because it only serves two things today, in 2017: to deprive of freedoms and rights and to plunge prosperous countries into poverty.
mr president, this second part of the road mobility package is a great opportunity to define the kind of transport we want in europe, and my group will work to ensure that some of the aspects we consider essential are included in order to transform the mobility of our fellow citizens into a more efficient, smarter, more sustainable and safer mobility. first, to improve the efficiency of the transport system as a whole. the road should serve short and medium distance distribution as a complement to a quality regional, national and cross-border rail network. despite the attacks and the lack of investment from many institutions, our commitment to a public and social train is irrevocable. secondly, to focus on safe and quality public transport, especially in urban and inter-urban environments. thirdly, to improve the conditions of workers in a sector which is so punished. and fourth, boosting research and innovation in 100 per cent renewable energy. and we are not just talking about the economy, jobs or pollution; we are also talking about security, the 25 000 lives we lose every year in europe that we could be saving.
mr president, commissioners, we need the rules on new co2 emission standards, the revision of the directive on clean vehicles, the directive on combined transport, the directive on bus passengers and the initiative on batteries. but they will only work if they land on people, knowledge and industrial fabric capable of turning cleaner, more efficient mobility into a fertile quarry of quality jobs on european soil. i therefore hope that this legislative work will be accompanied by three efforts which must be reflected in all european programmes. the first is to steer industrial policy so that the union is a world leader in the technologies and manufacturing processes for these clean vehicles, their batteries and the intelligence that connects them to each other and to the infrastructure. secondly, to stimulate the emergence of new businesses and developments that evolve the concept of transport modes towards integrated mobility. and finally, to link the demands of new skills and businesses linked to these changes with the training offered in universities and vocational schools.
mr president, i have to say... first of all, we welcome this long-awaited and expectation-filled package, mr vice-president, madam commissioner. the commitment to reduce co2 emissions by 40% by 2030 is a goal that is built on reality, which is sometimes stubborn. we just visited tesla in california. a plant that is extraordinary, but which builds 25,000 electric cars and is still very expensive - between 70,000 and 30,000 dollars - compared to the capacity, for example, of the opel spain plant in my city, of about half a million small and cheap cars. so we have to think that as we prepare and prepare infrastructure and alternative electric, hydrogen vehicles, etc., there will be a key transition period in which we will be replacing not only the cars that pollute with those that do not pollute, but also the adaptation of thousands of workers and their jobs. and always considering the vehicle's lifetime environmental footprint, whether low-emission or zero-emission. as regards national bus services, commissioner, what do you think about providing a competitive service with high quality competition but at a very affordable price and ensuring at the same time the territorial cohesion of large countries or countries with difficult terrain such as mine and at no cost to public administrations, since the system is balanced and sufficiently attractive and profitable for private companies to take over the service? isn't that a dream? well, that dream, that system, exists in spain. let's try not to spoil it, please.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would also like to thank the honourable members for a very rich debate. i would like to express my appreciation for the fact that in most speeches we felt very strong support for our proposals. together with ms bulc and our energy union team, we are very much looking forward to working with you at such a pace that we will not only make this proposal and have a debate on it, but we will definitely adopt the whole package and make it law before the end of our mandate. the word which was probably used most frequently in this debate was ‘more’ and we very much appreciate your support for more ambition, more investment in the infrastructure and more focus on future technologies. i think that if we look at the long—term vision, we would of course like to have mobility with zero emissions, where we would have zero accidents and there would be zero congestion. i think that all this is possible if we kick—start our car and transport industry right now. this is what we are trying to do. therefore we propose the most realistic path, namely the curve of a 30% reduction in emissions with a benchmarking system and with very harsh penalties if this 30% reduction is not met by 2030. but we also wanted to offer the industry incentives to give them the flexibility to be technologically neutral because we can see how quickly the science and research is evolving. i do not think we can really say today what the winning technology will be. we just know that it will be emission—free technology in the end. i would also like to highlight the fact that we are really working here on this cross-cutting basis because by 2030 we want to have more than 70% of our electricity carbon—free. i want to use this clean energy to power our clean cars and to give them the ability to store that energy in green batteries. that is the paradigm change that we are pushing for and we would very much like to achieve. when it comes to experience from the past, i believe that we can learn from this and therefore we are proposing very rigorous systems of controls, market surveillance, real—driving emission tests and in—service conformity checks, which would really tell us if we are on the right track or if we are deviating from it again. i can assure you that we in the commission – and i am sure this house as well – will be very vigilant in order to make sure that we achieve the target we have set for ourselves. if you will allow me, i will now pass the floor to ms bulc, but i would like to thank you all very much for your supportive spirit and for all the dynamism which i believe we will need to make sure that this package is adopted before the next european parliament elections.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you, in my name too, for a very rich and engaging debate. i am particularly happy to hear that there is a broad consensus on the need to take a comprehensive approach to reach the necessary level of ambition. let me really quickly summarise the package and i hope you will recognise this in our proposal as well. first, we do address vehicles, infrastructure and necessary changes in the use of fuel or ‘energies’, as we are probably going to call them in the future. we do address demand and also the supply side at the same time. we do address passengers and freight at the same time. we do address co2 emissions but also noise and other emissions. we do address road transport but also other modes. why? because all modes of transport have a role to play in achieving low emission mobility. public transport must be a real alternative on the european transport market. this is essential for the environment but also for territorial and social cohesion for our entire union. decarbonisation, i believe, is good for all of us; it is good for citizens, it is good for businesses and it is good for all member states. so i am really looking forward to constructive discussions but let us also move as far as possible under your mandate.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the report by marlene mizzi, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2016 (2017/2126 ((ini)). i take this opportunity to welcome mrs emily o'reilly, defender of the european people.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it is right to congratulate mrs o'reilly on the excellent work she is doing as a defender of the people. it's not politeness, it's a sincere acknowledgment. there is one thing that, in any case, worries me, which is the low number of people who go to the ombudsman to be able to make their complaints, compared to what happens in the member states, where the number of complaints does not correspond to the institutions in the member states being worse than those in the european union but, perhaps, to a greater and easier practice. i think this is a subject we should examine. there is something that is important, i think it is fundamental: that there should be collaboration between the ombudsman of the european union and those of the different member states. there are some points in the report which i think are extremely important, for example the issue of transparency. transparency should be the norm, not the exception, and that is how it is put. but transparency must not be linked to what i would call 'candidacy'. we cannot be so candid that, in matters such as the brexit negotiations, we are so transparent that we are giving all the arguments to our counterpart in the relevant negotiations. transparency is one thing, openness is something else entirely. let us therefore be responsible for our own limits in transparency, which i certainly call for. there is also something important, which is the clear and definite position that exists with regard to lobbies of all kinds, from the tobacco lobby to the medicine lobby. we all know that lobbies are there to try to influence members, but there has to be some limits, which is the code of conduct, which has to be rigorously implemented. the same applies to the code of conduct of the president of the european commission when he ceases to be president, or of the commissioners themselves or of the advisers. the revolving door story has to end, and it has to end for good. and if the code of conduct has to be reformed, reform it, because it is a cry for help against certain scandals, however legal they may be. in any case, this is a report that you have made, which is not complacent. it is a sincere report and it is a report which has courage, and i want to acknowledge its work and its role in that respect.
in writing. i join the commitment that the ombudsman has shown since the beginning of the legislature in her defence of the rights of persons with disabilities. in this context, it is worth noting the reinforcement of this commitment during 2016 with the launch of a strategic initiative for the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i encourage you to continue to work actively on the implementation of both the convention and the european disability strategy. i congratulate the ombudsman on the launch of the initiative under the convention on the accessibility of websites and online tools managed by the commission for an improvement of access for people with disabilities to public administration in the eu. it is important that the ombudswoman continues to investigate complaints from people with disabilities. the european ombudsman should protect the rights of persons with disabilities and ensure that the union administration is aware of its responsibilities in relation to these rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the members of the house for their support and for highlighting the issues that have been raised. i will convey these concerns and suggestions back to commissioner vella. the environmental implementation review is an example of how the commission can work with member states and other institutions to address the weak implementation of environmental rules and policy. as many of you have said, this is necessary in order to increase the european union’s credibility. ms schreijer-pierik mentioned issues in relation to water quality in the netherlands. these are very important issues, and i see that, if water quality in a member state is an issue where the spirit and content of the legislation in relation to our water framework directive is not being implemented, infringement proceedings can be taken if necessary. i would, of course, agree that farmers should be seen as part of the solution rather than part of the problem. i would say to mr flanagan that 31 european court of justice judgments against ireland were on the desk of a certain minister of the environment in 2011, and that number was reduced in three years to nine because a dedicated unit was set up and human and financial resources were assigned to it. in other words, it was given political priority. this subsequently saved an enormous amount of money for the country. so implementation is a matter for the member state, and it is in the interest of the member state, if it wants to eliminate the possibility of expensive legal proceedings and fines, to take action. it is in the interest of our citizens that full implementation is actually achieved as quickly as possible. but i also agree with mr pospíšil that, sometimes, the manner of implementation of environmental law in member states needs a lot of attention and monitoring, and i think mr flanagan was right in that regard as well. there can be gold-plating, in certain cases, and we have evidence and some examples of where that has been the case in some member states. ms mcguinness, you have certainly come at the glyphosate debate from a different angle and it is an interesting one. ms grapini, again, it is a matter for member states to decide if they want to implement support packages and financial support with assistance from eu programmes, like the life programme, for example, which can offer financial assistance, if necessary, with the implementation of certain environmental law that has to be transposed and implemented by the member states on behalf of the european union. thank you again to all the contributors. i think it would also be useful if members of the european parliament would engage in promoting the environmental implementation review in their national constituencies, in order to get feedback.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like once again to thank parliament for the interest shown in this important initiative and for the questions and comments that have been made. we are at the beginning of a long-term process. we are embarking on a new, long road together and i am sure that we will have further opportunities to discuss these issues in this house and in other forums.
in writing. although new legislative proposals such as a soil directive are needed to complete the european environmental acquis, there is no doubt that the current framework is a demanding standard in environmental protection. the implementation of the directive, however, differs greatly between the member states and is particularly lax in my country, spain. it is unacceptable that the transposition of the water framework directive does not yet contain hydrological plans for the canary islands, nor measures that really guarantee the sustainability of the vast majority of peninsular basins. it is also unacceptable that, despite numerous judgments of the ecj, the problem of illegal landfills continues to exist, as tragic events such as chiloeches remind us. neoliberal policies have undoubtedly exacerbated the structural over-exploitation of our nature. but even on the fringes of the community's economic policies, the spanish administrations, and especially the current pp government, have shown nothing but indifference to the protection of the environment. the commission must therefore be more firm and take action in the face of the numerous complaints of infringement of environmental legislation that are accumulating in spain.
the rapporteur. madam president, at this sitting the european parliament will decide with this report on inequality to put the fight against inequality on its agenda and especially to place it as one of its great priorities, not only because we are challenged by the socially intolerable injustices that are being experienced and are sweeping across the continent, but because we recognise that the best way to promote inclusive growth, sustainable growth and strong growth in the european union is to combat inequality. fighting inequality is also the best way to ensure stability in our institutions and the best way to fight the monsters that we have seen in the last election period in the western world. the european union, as we know, and its institutions have been very aware of a long list of crises in recent years - since the financial crisis, the sovereign debt crisis, some of the domestic political crises we have suffered - but now that growth is rearing its head, that stability is rearing its head and we can see a future of some stability, the time has come to make it a priority to rebuild our social pact and to respond also to the long list of victims and the victims of recent years. a labour market that we know has been transformed in recent times and is no longer the source of security and prosperity that it had been until recently. to draw up a list of 115 million european citizens who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. to address the intolerable inequalities that have increased in recent years within countries and, above all, between countries, whereas we have hitherto been a convergence machine, as the european treaties rightly say. and for that we also make and mark a road map. we are not just calling for action, we are not just recognising the economic impact of inequality, but as an institution we are saying that we need to rebalance our economic policy and introduce inequality into its tools - the country-specific recommendations or the european semester. and at the same time we must build a genuine european social dimension. it is no coincidence that we are adopting this report in the european parliament's plenary just days after the adoption of the european social pillar, a list of social rights and objectives for the citizens of the union. but then that list must be able to become instruments, policies, european standards and resources. and we have put forward some proposals: from the need for a minimum income table at european level to studying the possibility of having a box that accompanies unemployment benefits, to fighting child poverty with a child guarantee system as a proposal; to continue also fighting youth unemployment, as we have done in recent years; to address the labour market, to the improvement of wages, with a living wage index; and also to address the new forms of employment that we have seen - some of which are also derived from digitisation - that we are concerned about. all this must be done while telling the union that there are underlying economic trends that concern us, that generate growth but do not distribute well, such as digitalisation and robotization or international trade; that there are groups that experience vulnerability in an intersecting way: the disabled, the gender gap - which we are very concerned about in this report - or the generational gap. the other side of the coin, taxes, must also be taken into account. the union is thus making the fight against inequality a priority and, above all, we are saying that this form, the social dimension, is the best way of giving the european institutions new legitimacy in the eyes of the citizens, restoring growth, stability and dignity to this continent.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, inequalities are finally taking over parliament. and that's good news. i congratulate everyone who has worked on it, because they have achieved three things. it is true that this text is often lost in the old social recipes, which we have already discussed in the social pillar, which we repeat every time a river flows through here - and here one flows through - and it is true that inequalities will never be solved by the labour market - the labour market is an instrument for adjusting what is there - but this text which i am going to support and which alde will support in its majority has three fundamental advantages. the first is to bring the issue of inequality to the heart of parliament, because this unequal way out of the crisis, in which not everyone is making the same sacrifices, is undermining citizens' faith in europe. we have to tell them that we are going to deal now, that we seem to be getting out of it, that there is greater individual cohesion among people at income level. second, what it says, and it's very important beyond all the social recipes, is that inequalities depend on economic policies. there are the structures: fiscal policy, tax policy, income policy, trade policy, industrial policy, investment policy. finally, it says that measurement, monitoring and monitoring of the dynamics of inequality should be introduced within the european semester. that's the big message.
madam president, equality should be at the heart of european policies. there can be no democracy when millions of people are deprived of decent jobs, suffer discrimination, lack of opportunities and access to a public and universal health, education and social protection network. the report and the measures we are discussing today would be a good starting point for giving a response to european citizens if at least two conditions were met. the first is to have legislation in the european union establishing common labour and social standards, based on the binding recognition of the rights enshrined in the european social charter and the charter of fundamental rights. and secondly, change the framework. it is incompatible that these measures can be developed in the context of economic governance and the european semester, since the social dimension is not among their priorities. we have to reverse the priority. the economy must be at the service of the people, which requires a review of the current treaties. if we do not change our policy, irrationality and fascism will continue to decompose europe.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report, on the content and the approach, which i share, that the fight against inequality must be a key priority for the european union. we must not forget that the increase in inequality is linked to political decisions, austerity policies and regressive labour reforms that have been implemented in many countries of the european union, especially in the south. and i give the example of spain, my country, which is the second country that has grown the most in recent years. we must not forget either that when we talk about inequality, what some lose, others gain. there are urgent measures mentioned in this report, such as the directive on a minimum income or the european unemployment insurance, which we consider absolutely necessary. but concrete measures will be of little use if the european project does not change course. the european union's main objective must be to combat structural inequalities, to strengthen territorial balance and cohesion and to promote the well-being of its citizens, and it must direct all its instruments towards this objective. it is about building a fairer europe, but also a europe that is stronger socially and economically, a europe that offers solutions.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all 35 contributors in this debate. it would be impossible to reply to all the comments, but i want to make a few general remarks on behalf of commissioner thyssen. combating inequalities is a shared priority. rising inequalities undermine social cohesion, economic growth and the very stability of our political institutions, as many of you said. as the report rightly points out, automation and digitalisation add to the existing challenges as they rapidly transform the world of work. so, along with the undeniable opportunities that are offered for social participation and for innovation and job creation, they also carry with them the risk of widening inequalities. this debate is timely in the context of the social summit in sweden, and i can assure the house that president jean-claude juncker and commissioner thyssen and the commission generally are committed to the implementation of the proposed actions that have been outlined by commissioner thyssen. the only appropriate response to the challenges that have been presented here this evening is to invest more and better in the people of europe, and this means starting early on and continuing right throughout their lives. this is the essence of what is contained in the european pillar of social rights. and following the pillar’s proclamation, the commission, for its part, is committed to following up with concrete actions. we are counting on the european parliament’s continued support in order to ensure that the pillar’s principles and rights are translated into deeds on the ground.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would first of all like to thank the commissioner and commissioner thyssen, who were unable to join us today, for their words, for their commitment to work as the european union has never done before in the social field, because they have the legitimacy to do so, and also to recall that there has been a joint work of this parliament to get us here. we shall be adopting a report tomorrow, but we are adopting a report after a year of work, of joint work between the different groups. i would also like to thank the other groups for their fruitful cooperation, especially those who have been responsible for this matter. and we must say this because we are adopting - and we hope to adopt - this report tomorrow, at a very special moment, just a few days after the adoption of the social pillar at a european union summit, with a firm commitment from the three institutions to a roadmap that defends, recognises and protects the social rights of european citizens. so it is up to us to send a strong, joint message tomorrow from all or most, the vast majority of the political groups in this regard, because otherwise it would not be understood and would be blurred by the messages that the rest of the institutions are going to send in a few days. i say inequality because it challenges us socially, morally, ethically; inequality because we have learned that it works, that it acts as a dissolver of trust between citizens, and between citizens and the european institutions; inequality because, as we have learned, fighting inequality is conducive to sustainable, lasting growth; and inequality because fighting it is the best way to recognize and combat the anxieties, uncertainties and fears that run through the hearts of europe, and is the best way to regain its trust in these institutions.
in writing. the fight against inequalities must be tackled from a triple angle, analysing economic, social and territorial aspects. the first step in ending inequalities is to ensure that european citizens enjoy equal opportunities throughout their lives, regardless of where they live. we must bear in mind that economic inequality is the main result of unemployment and that to reduce it we must act on the root of the problem. there are too many people in the eu who are at risk of poverty and exclusion and we need to integrate them, particularly to break the cycle of poverty from which it is so difficult to escape. on the one hand, the environment for business creation must be improved and labour policies promoted to encourage integration and permanence in the labour market. on the other hand, we need sound public finance systems that support those who need it most and guarantee equal opportunities. we need to combine active and passive policies to achieve lasting results rather than measures that indiscriminately increase public spending, threatening the sustainability of the welfare system
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by underlining the strong support that the european union has provided to producers of fruit and vegetables since the beginning of the russian embargo. through our exceptional measures we have already provided a total amount of aid of eur 490 million, which corresponds to a withdrawal of 1.7 million tonnes of fruit and vegetables. these exceptional measures continue to operate and they sustain the market. the eu support allows producers to adapt to the new market situation and, in parallel, we are working to ensure a gradual opening of new markets for european union apples by lifting sanitary and phytosanitary barriers, particularly in asia, in countries like china, india and vietnam, and in the american countries, particularly the united states and canada. i am disappointed, however, that the united states has not fulfilled its promise to open the market for fruit to poland and belgium in particular, as it promised to do some time ago. so this diversification of trade that we are seeking to open up is developing much more slowly for fruit and vegetables than originally expected. however, i want to recall that the overall eu export figures for agrifood products are increasing. they total eur 137 billion for the 12-month period from september 2016 to august 2017. this is well above the export figures of july 2014 when the russian embargo was imposed. these figures are no consolation to our farmers who are involved in the fruit and vegetable sector, who still need our support and who are continuing to suffer market losses and income losses. in view of the persisting market difficulties, the temporary exceptional measures in relation to fruit and vegetables have been prolonged after 1 july 2017 for one more additional year, and the matter can be reviewed again at that stage. the support which we have focused in particular on certain fruit tree crops is important in terms of alleviating market disturbance. last summer, the budget devoted to the scheme was increased following the peaches and nectarines crisis, as additional quantities for withdrawal were allocated to greece, italy and spain. in addition, many of you asked, in the context of the withdrawal of the product from the market, to increase significantly the support in terms of the withdrawal scheme and the amount of product for fruit and vegetables. this was done in a delegated act recently for producer organisations, and it is applicable since june of this year. this provides considerable additional support to the market. i have promotion support as well for the marketplace, where member states can allocate up to 70% assistance from the european union to promote the possibilities for fruit and vegetables right around the world and diversify into other markets. by mentioning these particular issues i am saying that we are doing everything we possibly can, by all the means at my disposal, to help farmers in the fruit and vegetable area to overcome the market difficulties in the food and vegetable sector arising from the russian embargo, and that farmers are not being left totally on their own. i would also like to underline that in some member states, and for certain products, such as peaches in spain, or apples in poland, there are structural problems of over-production in those countries, and we have to look at these issues and monitor them. these temporary exceptional measures cannot be considered as the appropriate way to remedy these types of situations and we will continue to look at those markets and those particular products with member states in order to see what we have to do to address this problem of over-production in an appropriate way. i would say to mr siekierski that the political decision regarding sanctions in respect of the russian embargo, and their effectiveness or otherwise, is not a matter for the commissioner for agriculture, but a matter for political decisions that have been made elsewhere.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, from last august to next june, no less than 52 530 tonnes of peaches and nectarines are to be withdrawn. almost 30 000 in my country, spain, but also in greece, italy and portugal. i know that withdrawing them is possible thanks to the more than 70 million allocated to products affected by the russian veto until next summer. but that's certainly until next summer. that is why i am bringing this matter to the house, because of the continuing uncertainty facing farmers. every year for the last three years the commission has announced the extension of aid, and every year for the last three years our farmers have been waiting with bated breath to find out whether or not the quotas and withdrawal prices will cover their needs. it is an untenable situation, commissioner, and i know that you are sensitive to it. we cannot allow our producers to be held hostage to russian tactics. it is a fact that the embargo is hurting us. it also has generated a boom in russian production. the commission established the volume of imports from the country concerned on the basis of eurostat data. so let us be realistic about this. the kremlin is in no hurry to lift the veto. we must therefore think about how best to deal with it in the medium term. i have proposed to convert emergency measures into structural measures, because if we know that the russian veto is going to last, why not protect ourselves better against it? i think that a more stable aid framework helps to reduce uncertainty. i also ask you to continue working on opening up new markets and i commend you for the successes you have achieved, such as the signing of the treaty with canada. that's a good way to go. i would like to conclude, commissioner, madam president, by saying that in countries like mine it is very difficult to explain why high-quality products have to go to waste. i therefore thank you for your participation today and ask you to treat this matter as a priority.
madam president, mr hogan, as all my colleagues have said, we are going for the third year in a row. this creates uncertainty and the fruit and vegetable sector, in some cases worse than in others, is trying to resolve the situation. but the situation is bad. it is true that the commission has put 500 million euros on the table, it is true. what's going on? i spoke to a peach farmer this morning in lleida, catalonia. it has received the price of nineteen euro cents, nineteen euro cents a kilo. the costs are thirty-five euro cents. there's a world of difference. he has made a drastic decision - joel is his name - he has left farming; he leaves farming because he cannot live off it. that's the problem. the commission has therefore put money into this political problem which has entered agriculture, but something more needs to be done. mr dantin has said it and i am saying it: we must solve the situation, because fruit and vegetable farmers are suffering and consumers are not benefiting because we are still paying too much for fruit and vegetables.
in writing. it is more than three years since the russian ban on eu agricultural products began. in total, more than eur 440 million has been allocated in aid to the producers concerned up to this april. given that the ban has been extended until the end of 2018 and that russia plans to achieve self-sufficiency in agri-food as a target by 2020, european producers expect the commission to reconsider its intention to end the aid in june next year. the lesson to be drawn from this experience with russia is clear: the need to diversify our markets. i therefore ask the community executive to promote trade agreements with third countries and to intensify the campaigns to promote the products most affected by the russian blockade. trade agreements must, however, be balanced in dismantling tariff and non-tariff barriers, while ensuring that unfair competition from imported products from third countries that do not meet the same standards of quality and food safety as the eu is avoided. if we can improve our presence abroad, we will not have to regret any further unilateral action by third countries against our exports in the future.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we support closer relations between the european union and new zealand and therefore we welcome the conclusion of the partnership agreement with a country that, although far away from us geographically speaking, is very close and like-minded when it comes to standards of democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms, international law, and so on. a country with one of the highest human development index rankings, there are many things from new zealand to praise, for instance the functioning of its institutions of government, the way minorities are nowadays respected and promoted, its relevant commitment to sustainable development and to peacekeeping operations, and its valuable efforts in the fight against climate change, with more than 80% of its electricity coming from renewable energy sources. it also seems to me remarkable that, since some weeks ago, new zealand, the first country in the world in which all women had the right to vote, has now the world’s youngest female head of government, prime minister jacinda ardern. we believe that this partnership agreement can provide for a framework that promotes and further develops the relationship with a country with which we can work together for a better advanced and future-oriented governance. we also hope that this instrument can bring about more people-to-people ties, the ties that make countries and regions really come closer, and that it will also be useful to deepen relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region. when it comes to negotiations for a new free trade agreement, our position is much less enthusiastic, first and foremost because we favour a multilateral trade agenda and multilateral negotiations to regulate world trade, where respect for human rights, the environment and social rights prevail. secondly, we want clear limits for negotiations, especially with regard to agriculturally-sensitive issues, animal welfare, a phasing out of extensive agricultural production methods, or the possibility of sustainable development chapters. thirdly, we call for a bigger democratic oversight for all trade negotiations. thus, we would have preferred that the resolution simply took note of, instead of openly supporting, the launch of the free trade agreement negotiations. notwithstanding our position on the fta, we welcome this parc, insofar as it will allow us to have stronger ties with new zealand, and we thank the rapporteur, mr tannock, for his work.
mr president, i too would like to begin by congratulating mr tannock on his excellent report. i think it is very appropriate for the european parliament to approve the association agreement with new zealand, a country which is geographically distant but, as has already been said, very close to the european union in values, principles and interests. and it's also clearly committed to international cooperation and governance. with the signing of the framework agreement with australia last august, the european union took another step towards strengthening its presence in the asia-pacific region. i believe that the union is a global player and must continue to be so, even when we are a europe of 27 states. to do this we need to strengthen our projection in a region as wide but also as dynamic as the asia-pacific, and the agreements in new zealand, and also australia, will serve us well.
mr president, the definition of sudan is a regime headed by a criminal, a fugitive from justice and a regime and a president who have been responsible for the genocides in yebel marra, yebel nuba and the darfur area and for the repression of their own people for many, many years. the situation in sudan simply means that we are facing a regime where the janjaweed in the darfur area and the national security agency are the rulers, the all-powerful and therefore the pillars of the regime. freedom does not exist and freedom of the press is a myth, even if they have signed all or some of the international declarations. in any case, the case of mohamed zin al-abidin is only one example of a general situation, of a country subjected to barbaric repression, to barbaric exploitation. this is the situation in sudan. mohamed zin al-abidin is simply an anecdote in a frightening category.
mr president, i want to support this resolution in favour of the release of mohamed zin al-abidin. sudan is one of the countries where there is a lack of freedom and a clear lack of human rights. the sudanese regime has subjugated and intimidated its people, and the case of mohamed zin al-abidin is a sample of how the sudanese authoritarian dictatorship suppresses the freedom of the press to report on the corruption of the sudanese president and his family. the european union, ladies and gentlemen, must condemn what is happening in sudan. not just in the case before us today, but in all the violations of freedom of expression and of rights that are taking place in that african country. as you know, sudan receives financial aid from the european institutions. and that aid must also be limited to the democratic requirements of respect for freedom of expression and respect for human rights.
author. madam president, today i would like to talk about an uncomfortable truth. we cannot talk about terrorism in somalia without first pointing to the elephant sitting in the room: a state, saudi arabia; a figure, 25% of its trade is with the european union. we're their first trading partner. the inconvenient truth: saudi arabia is the founding state and the biggest promoter of wahhabism, and is a preferred partner of the european union. yes, of this european union of political coherence. terrorism is fought with sustainable development, with integration and social cohesion, with redistribution of wealth, not with militarisation. the stabilization of somalia requires that we put an end to the hypocrisy of our foreign action. development aid should not be conditional on cooperation on migration policy, but should focus on achieving the sdgs. but sadly, the biggest spending by contrast of the international community in somalia is military. we would not object if drones were to spread social inclusion and human rights, but we know that this is far from being the case.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. but we're losing the battle by losing the values. it's not just military optics. and more so when it's a reflection of that war on terror that the bush administration promoted, that followed obama, and that has followed president trump. we see them, their results, not just in somalia but in afghanistan and other places. the extrajudicial and extraterritorial killing by means of drones is not only an affront to the law, but it causes unacceptable innocent victims who, moreover, are breeding grounds for terrorism. nor are initiatives such as the khartoum process to outsource border control the solution. nobody emigrates for pleasure and the militarization of that border control is not the solution, but to invest all means in sustainable development on an equal footing, to attack the financing of terrorism, to clearly point out the culprits, such as the saudis and wahhabism, to act with regional actors to stabilize and combat terrorism.
madam president, madagascar is faced with a highly problematic exploitation of its natural resources. 36,000 hectares of its rainforest are disappearing every year, often to the benefit of companies owned by local oligarchs. many mining permits were granted by the former transitional government in non-transparent procedures, without consulting the local population and without considering environmental impacts. environmental crimes are rarely prosecuted. it is a different story for environmental activists who oppose the plundering of their country and who regularly find themselves in prison or in front of judges, such as clovis razafimalala. this activist denounced the illegal trade and exploitation of rosewood. he was detained for more than nine months on trumped-up charges of rebellion, destruction of public documents and goods, and arson. he was eventually sentenced to a five-year suspended prison term. the un special rapporteur on human rights and the environment, john knox, cites a problem of judicial corruption to explain such events. madagascar is also revising its mine code. it is very important that this review should result in a text guaranteeing basic principles such as the mandatory use of impact studies, the prior consultation of the inhabitants affected by mining activities, the possibilities of appeal and the granting of permits subject to the strict limitation of the transformation of the site during mining activities, the restoration of the site after these activities and the compensation of environmental impacts. the government should also use this opportunity to review the highly questionable mining permits granted by the previous government. i am glad that the joint resolution addresses all these pressing issues, among others.
author. madam president, since 2009 we have seen in madagascar an increase in the extractivist economy of mining, forestry and agri-food resources by multinationals that has been directly coupled with an alarming persecution of journalists, environmentalists and human rights defenders, who denounce the corruption of the government and this economic model that preys on environmental rights and resources. it is essential to note the relationship of the increase in sexual violence against women with mining areas, in a country madagascar where women still do not have the right to legal abortion. we must demand that the government of madagascar strictly observe human rights and the sexual and reproductive rights of women. but our demand is also for the multinationals which prey on resources and often violate rights. we therefore also call on the european union to support the binding treaty currently being discussed at the united nations on respect for human rights by multinational companies. it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to take part and to take a just stand on the side of the people and human rights, preventing the plunder of the multinationals.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the negotiations we are still not quite there. despite the proposed increase in the 2018 budget, an 8% increase in payment appropriations is not enough to address the problems and challenges we face. this increase is due to the need to make outstanding payments and the low budget execution of previous years. basically, their austerity recipes for people don't work out well. the european union's 2018 budget will again be restrictive in real terms, as the 1.4% increase is below the 1.7% increase in the cpi. so what we are doing is sacrificing a budget based on the union's own resources with a progressive tax system - which is what we have to tend towards - in favour of public-private investment schemes to socialise any losses. we sacrifice migration and asylum funds in favor of investments in defense, security research and development funds conditioned on externalizing our borders. we are sacrificing the commitment to a new, sustainable and renewable energy and production model in favour of more investment in fossil fuel infrastructure. to measure up, it would be good if we looked, read beyond the numbers and saw the real social and environmental needs and acted accordingly.
madam president, three messages, very short. first of all, of course, i would like to thank mr mureşan and the other rapporteurs for the work they have done. we think they have done a very serious job and have defended very well the position agreed by parliament. secondly, a very quick assessment of the results of this conciliation. we believe these are very similar results to previous years. it's not better or worse. we have succeeded in improving certain programmes, but we believe that much more can be done. and that's why i want to focus on the third message. because the socialist group is going to abstain in the vote tomorrow and we want to explain why. as i said, not because we are not happy with the work done by the speakers, not because we think it is a worse result than in previous years, but we think that we should pay attention to the way in which the meetings are conducted. we cannot negotiate a serious budget in one day, in 16 hours, at 4 o'clock in the morning. you can't leave issues on the table without even getting into the debate. we have not been able to discuss proposals such as mr deprez's. we have not been able to talk about the european solidarity corps and therefore we want to send this message to the council and hope that things can change next year.
madam president, the report on the state of the energy union comes at a time when a new directive on renewable energy is being negotiated. we have said it before and we are saying it again: binding national targets must be set if we are to ensure that the countries lagging behind are not left behind. obliging states to produce a minimum of renewable energy has been essential for the current directive to work. if we are not ambitious, we will not achieve the paris agreement. we are also concerned that the committee on industry, research and energy is endorsing targets for renewable energy in transport, which in practice means an increase in the use of biofuels. we must be careful: such general objectives will contribute to deforestation and food prices, putting the objectives of sustainable development at global level at risk. once again we see how green capitalism wants to link the expansion of renewables to its own particular interests, the liberalisation of the energy market; and this, of course, is not the way. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. i am sorry, mrs lópez bermejo, that you make the statement that it is green capitalism that has led me, as rapporteur for the renewable energy directive, to set a target for the decarbonisation of transport. it is true that biofuels must meet sustainability criteria. i certainly haven't been influenced by anyone. the only influence i have, mrs lopez, is the idea that transport should pollute less in our towns and cities, and you live in a town too polluted to support positions that, even in relation to development, are supported by the fao. i will pass on the fao document on the food and reforestation issue.
the answer is 'blue card'. mr. white, i thank you for your passion in the debate. i don't expect any less from you, of course. but, come on, i want to tell you that you must have misheard my speech, obviously. i have said nothing about how you have prepared the report. what i have said - and i repeat it - is that the big energy companies in spain and in europe are taking advantage of the use and abuse of certain conditions to launch renewables for their own interests only. we do not talk about energy poverty; we set criteria which are truly alarming; we make it easier for none of the objectives to be met. it has been shown in all studies that the absence of binding national targets is a failure. i do not know whether you will be influenced; what is clear is that we will not be influenced.
madam president, commissioner, i have no doubt that the european commission is committed to moving away from coal. i am also glad that at cop23 an alliance of countries launched an initiative to close their coal plants. but in spain, as you know, the government is going the other way. while some companies are committed to the paris agreement and want to close their plants, the minister of energy is preparing a law to prevent it. but in spain there is overcapacity of electricity. the shutdown is already regulated with a guarantee of supply. the european commission says that you cannot give state aid to companies and thus meet european environmental standards, but the spanish government is still looking to the 19th century. commissioner, do you think that avoiding the closure of coal-fired plants is consistent with the paris agreement and the clean energy package? do you think it's acceptable to give more money to those plants? does the commission consider that this proposal respects the current european energy market? i am counting on you and the european commission to write a future without coal, that is, in favour of health and the climate.
mr president, mr cañete, i will allow you to say that it is like dr jekyll and mr hyde, because in the commission's communication on the state of the energy union it shows us two faces. on the one hand, it tells us that the european union is the global driver of the clean energy transition and that ambition is needed to combat climate change. right, doctor, when it's true, i'll buy it. but on the other hand - or rather, when you show us your true face through the list of projects of common interest - you are about to give millions of euros to 53 mega gas infrastructures, including midcat and the southern gas corridor. and i'm like, why throw money away? every euro spent on projects that destroy the environment instead of promoting renewable energy is a euro you throw away. if this is your plan, mr cañete, for the sake of the environment you should not be in the european commission but in robert louis stevenson's novel.
mr president, the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of the economy, for our environmental objectives, for the transition to a decarbonised economy. but there will be no real energy union if we do not guarantee the necessary interconnections that end energy islands, such as the iberian peninsula. but, commissioner, you will remember that i congratulated you on the agreements reached in paris, where you played a major role. i am going to ask you to join us in making the music that sounded good in paris a reality, by making european legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency that is in line with those paris commitments. we took an important step yesterday with a broad agreement in the committee on industry to aim higher, to bring the european parliament and europe in line with those commitments: more renewable energy, more penetration of renewables in transport, in heating, in cooling, more empowerment of the citizen, better regulation of the right to self-consumption, and avoiding retroactive situations like some we have known. commissioner, you must follow what the european parliament agreed yesterday, and we will all come together to follow what was agreed in paris.
mr president, commissioner, the title of this debate is 'the state of the energy union in 2017'. first of all, it must be acknowledged that the commission - and you in particular - have done an extraordinary job in making this energy union crystallize during this term. it is amazing, for example, what the winter package we are now dealing with means in this and other respects. i wanted to focus on the issue of interconnections, because 'union' and 'connection' and in this case 'interconnection' are absolutely two sides of the same coin. we cannot talk about union without interconnection, and there we have a considerable deficit, a deficit which, according to the group of experts who have drawn up the report on interconnections and the commission's own communication, makes it clear that an interconnected internal market will give better results in terms of prices; that it is absolutely essential for security of supply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy. the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts. it also reviews the regulatory proposals that are being put into place. we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. but to do that, we need to set ourselves more ambitious goals. in this connection, two important reports led by the s&d have been adopted in the itre committee. they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy. with these objectives the european union is giving a clear signal of leadership for the next decade, and is correcting the lack of ambition of the council and the commission. we are risking the union's leadership, our international credibility and our commitment to the paris agreement, as well as our quality of life and health.
in writing. the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy. the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts. it also reviews the regulatory proposals that are being put into place. we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. but to do that, we need to set ourselves more ambitious goals. in this connection, two important reports led by the s&d have been adopted in the itre committee. they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy. with these objectives the european union is giving a clear signal of leadership for the next decade, and is correcting the lack of ambition of the council and the commission. we are risking the union's leadership, our international credibility and our commitment to the paris agreement, as well as our quality of life and health.
in writing. the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy. the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts. it also reviews the regulatory proposals that are being put into place. we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. but to do that, we need to set ourselves more ambitious goals. in this connection, two important reports led by the s&d have been adopted in the itre committee. they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy. with these objectives the european union is giving a clear signal of leadership for the next decade, and is correcting the lack of ambition of the council and the commission. we are risking the union's leadership, our international credibility and our commitment to the paris agreement, as well as our quality of life and health.
in writing. the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy. the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts. it also reviews the regulatory proposals that are being put into place. we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. but to do that, we need to set ourselves more ambitious goals. in this connection, two important reports led by the s&d have been adopted in the itre committee. they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy. with these objectives the european union is giving a clear signal of leadership for the next decade, and is correcting the lack of ambition of the council and the commission. we are risking the union's leadership, our international credibility and our commitment to the paris agreement, as well as our quality of life and health.
in writing. the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy. the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts. it also reviews the regulatory proposals that are being put into place. we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. but to do that, we need to set ourselves more ambitious goals. in this connection, two important reports led by the s&d have been adopted in the itre committee. they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy. with these objectives the european union is giving a clear signal of leadership for the next decade, and is correcting the lack of ambition of the council and the commission. we are risking the union's leadership, our international credibility and our commitment to the paris agreement, as well as our quality of life and health.
in writing. the publication of the state of the energy union report, the result of the vote on the renewable energy and energy efficiency directives, and the vague agreement at cop23 confirm that the interests of citizens and the decisions of politicians are moving in opposite directions. the large number of gas infrastructures, which the commission and its list of pcis consider necessary, and the lack of binding targets for the development of renewable energy are proof that politicians look more at the economic interest of companies than the real needs of those who vote for them. although the scientific community warns of the urgent need to reduce emissions, the european institutions are encouraging the use of natural gas, which is 80 times more harmful to global warming than co2. member states such as spain want to ban the closure of coal-fired power stations, which the commission considers to be probably illegally subsidised, or germany, which wants to cut down the oldest part of the hambach forest to continue coal mining. without binding targets, the commission has no means of compelling states to meet their commitments, and the climate agreement is left without guarantees.
in writing. the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy. the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts. it also reviews the regulatory proposals that are being put into place. we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. but to do that, we need to set ourselves more ambitious goals. in this connection, two important reports led by the s&d have been adopted in the itre committee. they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy. with these objectives the european union is giving a clear signal of leadership for the next decade, and is correcting the lack of ambition of the council and the commission. we are risking the union's leadership, our international credibility and our commitment to the paris agreement, as well as our quality of life and health.
in writing. the energy union is crucial for the competitiveness of our economy, for our environmental objectives and for the transition to a decarbonised economy. the 3rd state of the energy union report indicates that most member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets, but some countries need to make more efforts. it also reviews the regulatory proposals that are being put into place. we have the opportunity to take advantage of the updating of the regulation of the european energy system to make it more efficient, safer and more environmentally friendly. but to do that, we need to set ourselves more ambitious goals. in this connection, two important reports led by the s&d have been adopted in the itre committee. they set a target of 40% energy efficiency and a 35% share of renewable energy. with these objectives the european union is giving a clear signal of leadership for the next decade, and is correcting the lack of ambition of the council and the commission. we are risking the union's leadership, our international credibility and our commitment to the paris agreement, as well as our quality of life and health.
member of the commission. – mr president, i will speak in romanian. domnule președinte, din păcate, din ce în ce mai des sunt prezentă aici și în statele membre în fața unor astfel de tragedii, în fața unor astfel de catastrofe și îmi exprim încă o dată sincerele condoleanțe. știți foarte bine, comisia europeană a fost de fiecare dată prezentă. am mers pe teren în italia, mâine plec în portugalia unde, știți foarte bine că în această vară optzeci de oameni au murit în tragicele incendii care au avut loc de patru ori peste vară. în grecia, așa cum am spus, din primul moment am fost aici în fața dumneavoastră pentru a schimba regulamentele și știți bine că în perioada 2007 – 2013 practic am luat această măsură excepțională cu ajutorul dumneavoastră ca și colegislatori, pentru a ajuta grecia cu lichidități și, deci, practic a fost singura țară care nu a avut parte de cofinanțare, nu a mai trebuit să cofinanțeze, astfel încât să putem debloca toate proiectele în curs. deci, încă o dată, vreau să vă asigur de întreaga compasiune a comisiei europene și a mea personală. așa cum spuneam, suntem în permanent contact cu autoritățile elene pentru a investiga toate posibilitățile, pentru a ajuta grecia, pentru a ajuta populația greciei. v-am ascultat cu mare atenție și vă asigur că noi în comisie suntem umăr la umăr în solidaritate cu poporul grec și cu toate statele care suferă din cauza acestor chestiuni legate de catastrofe naturale, care sunt din ce în ce mai dese, așa cum spuneam. suntem la dispoziția autorităților elene, a autorităților naționale pentru a evalua împreună și a lua împreună măsuri imediate, dar și pe termen lung, pentru a ajuta cât putem, nu numai în vorbe, cum ați spus, dar, știți bine, că și în fapte dorim să facem cât mai mult posibil. i-am propus domnului ministru charitsis să examineze programul operațional attica și să vedem dacă putem redirecționa o parte din alocație, atât pentru reconstrucția infrastructurii, cât și pentru dezvoltarea economică. încercăm să răspundem cât mai rapid posibil pentru nevoile urgente. deocamdată nu am primit o evaluare din partea autorităților elene, cum și pentru italia a fost un proces greu de evaluare a pagubelor. deci, acestea nu se pot evalua de pe o zi pe alta. în legătură cu fondul de solidaritate, v-am ascultat cu mare atenție și împărtășesc în mare parte punctul dumneavoastră de vedere. doar vreau să vă reamintesc că această legislație a fost adoptată de dumneavoastră în parlamentul european și de consiliul european, ca instituții colegislatoare. attica, într-adevăr, este cea mai bogată regiune din grecia și, de aceea, acest prag este mai mare și nu știm deocamdată dacă poate fi atins pentru a activa fondul de solidaritate. în orice caz, așteptăm această evaluare, dar vreau să vă reamintesc, de asemenea, că acest instrument este reevaluat o dată la doi ani și jumătate și cred că, odată cu negocierea noilor regulamente de după 2020, ar trebui să lucrăm împreună, să vedem în ce măsură putem lăsa un spațiu mai mare de manevră în astfel de cazuri. e în mâinile dumneavoastră această decizie de reevaluare a regulamentelor privind fondul de solidaritate. în orice caz, vreau să vă spun că grecia a beneficiat de 114,3 milioane de euro în fața dezastrelor naționale, atât începând cu anul 2006 pentru incendiile din evros, în august 2007 pentru incendiile din păduri, în 2014 pentru cutremurul din kefalonia, în februarie pentru un nou cutremur, iar acum suntem în proces de a evalua pagubele din lefkada și lesbos. știți bine că astă vară eram chiar acolo în chios când s-a produs acest cutremur. deci, 114,3 milioane de euro din fondul de solidaritate, a doua țară după italia în privința acestor sume, care reflectă solidaritatea uniunii europene. we still need to assess more precisely, with the help of the greek authorities, the total damage caused by the floods and see whether the region is eligible for assistance. i would also like to remind you that the european union has been instrumental over the last year in establishing a preventive and adaptive framework for greece. i am convinced that, without our ex ante conditionalities, we would have had many more natural disasters in greece but with these ex ante conditionalities, we have avoided so many things. following the launch of an eu adaptation strategy in 2013, greece adopted this national adaptation strategy last year. i know that regions in greece are working very hard. i know all the presidents of the 13 regions and they are working very hard to develop and implement regional adaptation action plans. we are not naming and blaming here. it is our duty to do our utmost together so, coupled with the commission’s recent proposal for a revised civil protection mechanism, this action will certainly allow disasters like the one that hit west attica to be tackled in a more effective and coordinated way. mr van nistelrooij, i want to tell you again that, under the current programming period, greece has eur 1.3 billion which have not been spent and are available for climate change adaptation and risk prevention measures so we should have plans and projects to spend this money. money is not everything.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on the report by peter simon, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 575/2013 as regards the leverage ratio, the net stable funding ratio, the own funds and eligible liabilities requirements, counterparty credit risk, market risk, exposures to central counterparties, exposures to collective investment undertakings, large exposures and reporting and disclosure requirements and amending regulation (eu) no 648/2012 (com (2016) 0850 - c8-0158/2017 - 2016/0360 (bd)) (cod)) (a8-0525/2017).
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i do not have very much to add to the discussion. we have mostly been thanking each other by our various comments, so the only thing i want to add is that, as agreed before, the commission will make the overall impact assessment of this new standard by 2020. i thank you all for a good discussion. once more, this is a good compromise. it shows that we can prioritise important files and also find a compromise and adopt quite complicated pieces of legislation, which is important for financial stability.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. the creation of ifrs 9 is an important step towards ensuring that financial losses and risks are accounted for as soon as they are known and not only when they threaten to break the entire financial system. in this sense, opting for a late implementation of these rules means continuing to encourage financial speculation and easy credit, to the detriment of the health of the real economy. once again, the european union is demonstrating that it prefers to create the conditions for a new financial crisis than to intervene to put banking at the service of the general interest. we, on the other hand, will defend the working classes against the plunder of the financial lobby.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr arnaud danjean, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 230/2014 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 march 2014 establishing an instrument for stability and peace (com (2016) 0447 - c8-0264/2016 - 2016/0207 (cod)) (a8-0261/2017).
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank parliament, and notably the chair of the committee on foreign affairs, david mcallister, and of course the rapporteur, arnaud danjean, as well as the other members involved from the foreign affairs committee and the committee on development. our cooperation and your engagement over the past months on this important file were truly excellent. i also thank the council and, in particular, the estonian presidency, for their efforts to reach a swift agreement in interinstitutional negotiations. eu assistance under capacity building in support of security and development (cbsd) will be a vital part of our collective efforts to ensure peace, stability, human security and sustainable development in our partner countries. if we want our development policies to be effective and our humanitarian aid to reach the people most in need, it is crucial that our partner countries have professional and well-trained security forces. this has nothing to do with militarising development cooperation. on the contrary; we want to make sure that our development assistance does not fall into the wrong hands and that all security actors in our partner countries are trained to respect the highest human rights standards. this is also what our partners are asking for. for them, this is a way to protect and enable their economic growth, and it is a matter of autonomy to prevent or manage crises by themselves and take full responsibility for their own destinies. cbsd respects the spirit and the objectives of the united nation 2030 agenda for sustainable development, in particular its goal 16 on just, peaceful and inclusive societies. to be eligible for eu funding, potential cbsd projects must have development as their main focus and be embedded within a wider security sector reform strategy. each situation will be examined on a case-by-case basis to determine whether or not cbsd activity would be appropriate. eu financial support will cover the performance of development in human security-related tasks, including by the military in exceptional and well defined circumstances. this could entail training, advice and technical cooperation, including the provision of equipment and infrastructure improvements. in terms of equipment, this may cover, for example, it systems, protective gear, training-related facilities or health facilities. we have clearly defined the purposes for which the eu funding will not be used, such as recurrent military expenditure, the procurement of equipment designed to deliver lethal force, or training that contributes specifically to the fighting capacities of the armed forces. overall, the european union objective is to assist partner governments in providing their citizens with effective, legitimate and accountable security and justice services which are consistent with democratic norms, good governance and respect for human rights. we will monitor cbsd measures closely and evaluate their impact, effectiveness and coherence with sdg 16. this will be done in association with civil society organisations, local authorities and, where appropriate, with member states. our ambition now must be to commence rapid implementation of the cbsd project, so as to assist partner countries in need of such support. we look forward to informing you about cbsd implementation over the coming years and would like to thank you, once again, for our excellent collaboration in reaching this landmark agreement.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr danjean, on the report he has presented to us and, above all, on the speed and diligence with which he has worked. i believe that this area of security is one in which we should not be sleeping, and i believe that it also puts this report in a very appropriate perspective, which is to be a first step in a more ambitious strategy in terms of strengthening the security and defence capabilities of our partner countries. i also think, mr president, that it is important to distinguish to what extent we can insert development aid policy into security policy. this is an essential element of the european security strategy and it is also an essential element of the common strategy of the european union, of the overall strategy in all that concerns conflicts and situations which strengthen our security. i think the objective - as the commissioner has rightly said - is that the european union's action should be able to be exercised in a more flexible and effective way, and above all in a defined catalogue of interventions, with a number of friendly countries, a number of limited conditions and also, i would say, mr president, as the commissioner has explained to us, in an area in which weapons, ammunition and all lethal materials are excluded. i think, commissioner, that it is important to remember that we are affected by global threats such as terrorism and extremism. i therefore believe that investing in everything that affects the security of our partners and neighbours is also investing in the security of the european union and in the security of everyone.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr danjean once again on his excellent report, and of course, i have to say that this fruitful discussion and debate is quite important for us in the commission and that your support in this file is very encouraging for us. our world is becoming more and more complex. traditional development policies are not always as effective as we would like them to be. we, the european union, want to put all our tools at the service of sustainable development. we are a great civilian power and at the same time, a security provider. we are the leading humanitarian donor, and the largest foreign investor for most countries in the world. we work with governments and with ngos alike. this is the european way to development, and i strongly believe that with cbsd we have set up a new tool to promote sustainable development and human security worldwide, while pursuing a fully integrated approach to security sector reform. let me conclude by underlining that the commission will ensure that all cbsd provisions are fully respected, particularly the exclusion criteria, so that any support to the military is solely in pursuit of development objectives. we completely agree with the rapporteur on this very important issue, and we look forward to continuing our excellent work with parliament and with all of you, its members, and keeping all of you informed about progress.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in yemen (2017/2849 ((rsp)).
in the name of the gue/ngl group, i would like to say that after more than two years of the forgotten conflict in yemen, with more than 50 000 civilians killed, wounded or maimed, the worst famine in the world and a terrible cholera epidemic, the situation has reached a critical point with the escalation of tensions in the area. saudi arabia is stepping up its bombing and blockade against the yemeni people. even if he partially lifts it, the suffering of the yemeni people continues: 130 yemeni children die every day; two million children have had to leave their schools; while daesh expands and multiplies its attacks; and trump adds fuel to the fire by supporting the aggressions of saudi arabia, while multiplying its extrajudicial executions with drones in yemen. we are not facing a humanitarian crisis caused by a natural disaster but by war, and the solution to war is not more war. commissioner, i really appreciate your presence, but the person who should be here today in this debate is the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs mogherini. sixteen eu member states, led by the united kingdom, spain, france, italy and germany, continue to sell arms to saudi arabia. my country, spain, has recognised a sale worth 1 383 million euros in the last five years. all this encouraged by the well-known and close relationship between the saudi and spanish royal families. these european states are violating international humanitarian law and are not only accomplices but necessary collaborators in this massacre. to really stop this massacre the european union must implement the resolution already adopted by this parliament, which i hope we will adopt again tomorrow, to impose immediately an embargo on arms sales to saudi arabia.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, it is true: there are more than 3 300 bilateral agreements in the world about 1 400 in the european union which contain the private arbitration mechanism for the settlement of disputes between investors and states. created in the 1950s - long ago - it does not respond to the democratic principles of our time, it is opaque, lacks predictability and legal consistency, it puts at risk the decisions of governments when they regulate in the general interest, it has no appeal mechanism and it is inaccessible to smes. it rightly generates a frontal rejection of the citizenry. we socialists and democrats are opposed to this system head-on. we have already shown this when we forced the reopening of ceta negotiations to eliminate investor-state dispute resolution. we need to create a new legal framework for the protection of investors, as we have been suggesting in this parliament, and i sincerely believe that the multilateral tribunal can be the best solution, because it will allow the same rules to be applied by the same judges to any company in any dispute with any state. commissioner, i want to congratulate you and your team today, because i think you are doing an excellent job of rallying international support for this proposal. it has my support in advocating a multilateral tribunal that is public, transparent, impartial, with permanent, independent judges, subject to a strict code of conduct and incompatibilities and 'added' that also represents gender diversity; that is accessible to smes with an appeal mechanism and that allows all stakeholders, including civil society, to submit their arguments. but there are still questions to be answered. how will the relationship with the national courts be dealt with? it seems reasonable to exhaust that system first in the countries that have it before going to court. how will access to smes be effectively guaranteed? how will the new model be financed and how will developing countries be supported? and how will the transition period from one system to another be carried out? i'm waiting for your answer.
mr president, i have come again to speak for those who cannot speak from western sahara, for the saharawi political prisoners held in morocco, such as those who are part of the gdeim izik group. the number of saharawi political prisoners and the conditions they are subjected to are unacceptable. these prisoners are in deplorable conditions, without adequate medical care, isolated, on hunger strike and confined to their cells for most of the day. it is urgent that the international red cross visits the prisoners in gdeim izik so that it can gain a real understanding of their situation and make the mistreatment they are subjected to visible to the world. finally, it is essential that morocco regroup prisoners and provide for the right of visits, allowing relatives to have physical contact with their loved ones. some are more than 800 miles from home, making it difficult for families to visit them. morocco cannot continue to be a preferred partner for the european union as long as human rights violations and political prisoners are kept in prison.
mr president, the european union-catalonia dialogue platform was presented to this parliament a few hours ago. its manifesto has already been signed by 26 members of the european parliament from all the groups except the european people's party and the group around the front national. the manifesto, which is deeply concerned about the critical situation in catalonia, calls on the european institutions to show a sense of responsibility and to promote dialogue to find a solution to the conflict. many catalans regret that european leaders do not listen to us, but the number of citizens and institutions who raise their voices in favor of dialogue is growing, as this platform does. in addition, its members have written to the current president of parliament and to his predecessor, denouncing the serious situation in catalonia and asking them to speak out in particular in favour of two highly esteemed former members of the european parliament, oriol junqueras and raül romeva, who are political prisoners in spain. europe is already moving in the right direction towards dialogue and respect for human rights.
mr president, on the occasion of 25 november, i would like to draw attention to gender-based violence. official figures show that at least one third of european women have experienced physical or sexual violence. i want to be zero tolerance. i urge this parliament to provide the necessary mechanisms so that no aggressor can take his place in this parliament. i also call on this parliament, the european commission and the member states to make a thorough assessment of the application of equality laws and laws to combat gender-based violence, to identify what are the causes that are preventing further progress. i think it's essential that we implement an ambitious gender-sensitive training program for all law enforcement personnel to prevent their development into sexist biases. we believe that this gender perspective training should be mandatory for all people in public institutions who have the responsibility to implement the laws of equality and against violence. when will the directive on combating gender-based violence be published?
on behalf of the green group, mr president, my group in this parliament believes that the development, implementation and improvement of the drb directive is essential. we must strengthen this framework to prevent, as the rapporteur has said, taxpayers' money from being used again to rescue the banks on a massive scale. i do not want to recall the data, for example, that the bank of spain recently gave in my country: that the spanish bank rescue cost the spanish treasury 60 000 million euros, which is practically 6% of gdp. we are concerned, however, because this framework is currently experiencing difficulties in application, and not only because of what has recently happened with the venetian banks, which, in the end, because they did not want to go to the resolution and went to liquidation by national law, have ended up costing the italian taxpayer 5 billion euros. or there is also the case of banco popular. as we have seen, the holes in the implementation of the drrb are very large at the moment: mrs koenig acknowledged to us, for example, that in the case of banco popular, when she asked for the list of funds and assets available for the bail-in operation, because that list was not, it did not exist, it was not available. and that is a problem. we must therefore make progress in strengthening the drrb, in ensuring that this parliament is united in defending its respect, and, of course, what we have decided with today's package is a step forward, because it will allow banks to improve their loss absorption capacity without having to resort to public money. the only thing i have to regret is that we would have liked the new senior non-preferred product we created to have been categorized as a complex product under the mifid criteria to protect small investors. it is something we will come back to shortly because we have the second brrd package and we are going to table that amendment again. but nevertheless, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and my group will give its approval to this legislative package.
mr president, i wish to intervene on a point of order. today, after this plenary, some people have to take planes. the voting is at 11.30 and has been delayed. we are delaying the debate because neither the commission nor the rapporteur are present, which i do not understand, but that puts the votes at risk. i just want it on the record.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, first of all i would like to thank helga stevens and also the commissioner for her involvement in this european strategy which is now in force, and which we must now work on for the next one. i'd like to speak on behalf of people with disabilities, especially women. we are in favour of inclusive growth in europe, that is to say, no one can be left out; a europe without barriers and a europe of equals; that is why it is important that we all get involved in this strategy, that we close the gaps in this strategy which is in force from 2010 to 2020, that we adapt everything to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, because it is the convention in which people with disabilities participated and it is what we have to follow. for this, this strategy has to be our roadmap and we have to achieve full citizenship, an equal citizenship, an inclusive citizenship. this means equal access to education, to work, accessibility, participation, respect for dignity, equal opportunities, equal rights. only then will we have a fairer europe.
mr president, people with disabilities face a number of daily problems and, above all, the specific problem of integration into the labour market. the member states must be asked to do much more to ensure that disabled people are fully involved on equal terms, in short, without discrimination, as the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states. the direction of the strategy we are discussing today is in that direction, in a good direction. however, major challenges remain for full labour and social inclusion, including meeting recruitment quotas, especially in public administrations. the administration itself cannot be another wall to be crossed on the road to a dignified life. i would like to end by reminding the european council that it cannot continue to block progress on the anti-discrimination directive. if we want to work towards the full social inclusion of disabled people, the council cannot be an obstacle.
mr president, years ago, at a meeting on social services, i was fortunate enough to hear a woman in a wheelchair say something that changed my view of disability: "being different does not mean being unequal". if we are to succeed in any policy aimed at improving the lives of the 80 million europeans with some functional diversity, it is not enough to eliminate discrimination. we must guarantee this enormous group the full enjoyment of its rights. it is no accident that this is precisely the approach of a document that is legally binding on us: the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. do you think that, assuming that perspective, we would be here discussing whether the problems of accessibility should also be solved in the built environment? would anyone be able to defend out loud the 'exceptions' that some justify in fields such as health, education or social services? any of us here can acquire functional diversity. hopefully we can overcome it by breaking mold. "some people call us disabled people who need light" - this is how a blind man graphically explained to me why, when the entrance to his house was dark and the doorbell rang, an alarm sounded. this report looks at disability in that same way: diverse, empathetic. that's why i support you completely.
mr president, having a disability strategy in the european union is important, but being ambitious about it and enforcing it is more so. i would like to start by recalling that today we do not have a definition or harmonised criteria in the european union on what a disability really is - criteria that allow us to establish comparable indicators and data and thus put in place a clearly comprehensive strategy to work with disability - which also creates inequality between member states. i must mention the gender issue: once again, the weak link in disability is also women. we need a genuine gender perspective in all disability policies in the european union, and i would suggest that the structural funds be used specifically to fund projects in this area. finally, i would like to ask for more attention to be paid to children with disabilities and intellectual disabilities: these are people who, from the start, already have the first barrier, which is to be able to express what their problems are.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done and i would like to encourage you to think about it. we must stop thinking, once and for all, that public policies relating to disability are sectoral policies and transform them into universal policies. in europe today there are 80 million people living with some form of disability, but potentially we are the 500 million european citizens who may one day have to face it. too often we go about our daily lives as if we were perfect and indestructible, forgetting our human nature and therefore our fragility. i would like to stress that the future european disability strategy must aim to be universal, not sectoral, and that accessibility is key in all areas of our daily lives, at home, at work, in transport, on the streets and in every aspect of our daily lives, in order to guarantee the vital independence to which every person is entitled.
madam president, we have justly voted in favour of this report because we believe it is essential to condemn the saudi-led coalition, backed by the united states and made up of the united arab emirates, bahrain, kuwait, jordan, morocco, sudan - which is the main cause and perpetrator of the deaths of civilians in yemen. many of these civilians have been killed by drone strikes, in operations supported directly or indirectly by members of the european union - and it has to be said here, right in this room - as the united kingdom, italy and germany. others are killed with weapons sold by 17 member states, despite calls for an embargo on arms sales to those taking part in this conflict, weapons from the spanish state, the united kingdom and france, which have just increased their supply. we call for an effective blockade and no arms sales to saudi arabia, an immediate suspension of direct and indirect supplies and a ban on the use of drones in extrajudicial targeted killings. we cannot be complicit in this, and that is why we have justly voted in favour of this report.
madam president, today, a new vote in the european parliament condemns the situation in yemen. tomorrow, a new shipment of weapons to saudi arabia from european countries. today, a new appeal from the european parliament demanding the arms embargo passed in congress years ago. tomorrow, new weapons and new bombs of european manufacture falling on the civilian population in yemen. that's right, yeah. this is the impact of european arms. this is the case with the demands of this parliament from those who fill their mouths with the name of europeanists or pro-europeans. member states continue to export weapons to kill, weapons to radical groups that saudi arabia itself funds. last week, in the basque parliament, both the pnv and the pse said that the arms embargo is a matter for the european union. and here today they are supporting the demand that member states not sell arms. what a dizzy! what a way to make the partridge dizzy so that, in the end, it does nothing! at least the people's party, in an attack of sincerity, has not even called for the embargo in its own resolution.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank all those who have worked hard to ensure that this report is ready for adoption on 1 january. we hope that all these changes to the cap will improve the daily lives of farmers and livestock farmers, because they correct the shortcomings of the 2013 cap reform. for spain, one of the main problems was that the definition of permanent pasture had been corrected. i am pleased to say that, as from 1 january, mediterranean pastures such as dehesa are recognised in the regulation, and this means that the penalties imposed on aid to spanish farmers are no longer applicable. another major achievement of this regulation is the possibility of substantially increasing support for young farmers, a much-needed measure to improve the generational gap, which is the main problem facing the european agricultural sector. and finally, as a rio resident, i also welcome the amendments which have been introduced for the granting of authorizations for new vineyard plantations. they will ensure a fairer, more equitable distribution of the funds and will encourage young people to remain in the agricultural sector.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, paolo de castro and albert deß, and the alternative rapporteurs, on the good work they have done. i think parliament has invested a lot in this mid-term reform. they don't dare call it that, but it is, it's more than that. the commission's proposals for simplification are interesting, but this omnibus regulation is much better with the contributions of all the groups in this parliament. it is not by chance that all the groups are unanimous and that we all agree that good work has been done. let's see if it's good for the next reform after 2020. there are interesting improvements for young farmers, fruit and vegetable producer organisations, coupled payments or coupled aid. but especially - as mrs herranz has said - for the problem in my country with dehesa and mediterranean forests. this and the exceptional nature of the right to competition are very important issues for european farmers.
mr president, the negotiations on the omnibus were not transparent and we can say that they ended in a mid-term reform of the cap. the dismantling of the common organization of the market, the deregulation of agricultural production, the promotion of competition and the export orientation of european agriculture, the introduction of income stabilization insurance and the general application of financial instruments instead of subsidies are all being deepened. it dismantles the achievement by introducing the figure of the active farmer. the strengthening of the position of farmers in the value chain is not real because the mechanisms proposed do not work, as is the case with producer organisations. when we talk about simplifying the common agricultural policy, i hope that it will not be as usual, which will end up being even more complicated. the positive aspects highlighted and changes in the definition of pasture, pasture or permanent pasture, or the increase in aid for young people are a decision of the member state, so flexibility and subsidiarity are also introduced in the first pillar of the cap.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, my sincere thanks go to the rapporteur, ms engström, for her work on this report, also for the shadows and their teams who have worked hard on this commission proposal. you know very well that this is an important element of the reform of the common fisheries policy, which is being implemented by my colleague karmenu vella. the proposal on the sustainable management of the external fleets is crucial to reinforce the role of the european union as a key global actor in fisheries, ocean governance and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the commission is very happy that the council and parliament have agreed on a compromise text based on the commission proposal regarding the sustainable management of external fishing fleets. with this agreement and these new rules that should enter into force early next year, the european union is creating a benchmark at international level on the management of external fleets. the european union also takes the lead in ensuring sustainable fishing at a global level and is strengthening its capacity to tackle illegal fishing worldwide. let me illustrate this with some of the main achievements. first of all, a comprehensive system of fishing with authorisation to fish outside european union waters that applies wherever the fishing takes place based on strict eligibility criteria. this is of the utmost importance, especially for the outermost regions. i had the pleasure to be with president juncker and president macron in french guyana, which has now the presidency of the outermost regions. i know how important this is for the population, for whom fishing is the main activity. secondly, fishing activities will be better regulated and monitored independently, whether fishing takes place under public agreement, direct authorisation by third countries, or on the high seas. in particular, scientific evidence should be given showing that the fishing activities are sustainable. abusive reflagging of new vessels in order to avoid the rules will also be discouraged and penalised. the new rules will increase transparency on fishing operations globally, as the proposal was for the creation of a public register of all fishing authorisations granted. finally, chartering and transhipment in the high seas and under private agreements will also be regulated. this is a very balanced compromise. the objective of better regulating fishing activities goes together with a reduced administrative burden as well as simple and harmonised rules. the role of each actor is clear in defining this proposal. the responsibility of the member states as flag states is reinforced while the european commission will play an important role in supervising the implementation of the rules and ensuring compliance with international obligations regarding the activities of eu-flagged vessels. the european union has now become a strong global actor in shaping international oceans governance and this is now well reflected in our legislation, which we need to implement. i therefore trust that together we will manage to improve fisheries governance for a more sustainable future and a better livelihood. mr president, honourable members, let me thank you once again for all your work.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the text under discussion today is the result of the agreement reached in the tripartite dialogues on 20 june and approved without any problems in the committee on fisheries on 21 november. the text also covers the activities carried out by our overseas fleet under so-called private agreements, which have so far been insufficiently regulated by union law. it is a balanced text, achieved after a long and laborious process of dialogue and negotiation with the council and the commission. the text takes account of the three dimensions of fisheries: environmental, economic and social. i therefore hope that the text will be confirmed tomorrow as it stands. i would like to point out that an amendment has been tabled calling for the inclusion of the so-called double penalty, which would penalise vessels without a licence which were penalised in the year before the request for authorisation. my group has always opposed this inclusion for three main reasons: firstly, it is discriminatory; secondly, it would mainly penalise vessels from those countries which apply the sanctions control regulation more strictly, which, as we know, is unfortunately not applied uniformly in the member states; and thirdly, it would impose a heavy economic loss on vessels in the union's external fleet, which, because of their special characteristics, often cannot be converted and operate in union waters. i hope therefore that the amendment will not succeed, and if it does, all the work done so far will have been in vain because i do not see any possibility of reaching a compromise with the council on this point. we must all be responsible and not jeopardize the work done. i call for accountability.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president i would like to ask for a favourable vote on this report because it is crucial for improving the sustainability and transparency of the activities of the european union fleet outside our waters. its adoption is a direct consequence of the introduction, in the latest reform of the cfp, of a chapter devoted to the external dimension. the aim is to ensure that the european industry's fishing activities are governed by the same rules inside and outside the union. the external fleet currently consists of more than 700 community vessels, which account for a quarter of community catches. the co-legislators have reached an agreement which clarifies the existing gaps in the rules and the division of tasks between the states and the commission and which will bring more efficient and transparent control of fishing activities. we are thus helping to improve the sustainability and reputation of the european union in this area and to promote community values worldwide against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. to this end, the agreement includes all eu vessels fishing outside our waters, irrespective of the type of authorization, in the scope of the regulation. this expressly includes private authorisations and charter agreements. common readability criteria for obtaining licences and stricter rules against flag changes are also laid down. there will be more public transparency on the fishing activities of each vessel and more powers for the commission to intervene in the processes of granting or withdrawing fishing authorisations when states do not comply with this regulation. finally, this agreement requires improvements to the control regulation, which will be reviewed in the first quarter of next year. the current system makes it possible for all states to exercise different types of control over their own vessels, since it does not guarantee either appropriate surveillance or sanctions. until such conditions are met, a record of serious infringements would penalise the most compliant states and fleets. that is why this proposal could not be incorporated into the agreement and that is why we will not vote in favour of the amendment.
mr president, commissioner, this set of modernised rules will bring us greater transparency, supervision and improved management of long-distance fishing fleets. the electronic registration and publication of certain vessel data will improve governance and take the fight against illegal fishing one step further. if, moreover, the disproportionate bureaucracy and the high costs for operators and member states which the initial proposal entailed are avoided, we can be satisfied. we are also convinced that the unjust and disproportionate double sanction which some people are still defending today with a legitimate amendment, but which cannot in any way count on the support of those who, by giving in to the desire for an agreement, helped to achieve, after a difficult negotiation, the result which we are submitting to second reading today, will finally be banished. the european union's long-distance fleet is required to meet the highest standards and to be exemplary where it operates, but in no way can we penalize it in relation to foreign fleets fishing the same species in the same areas and marketing their products in the same markets.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have done such a great job. i think the word we could all agree with in this regulation on the sustainable management of external fishing fleets is 'balance'. it wasn't easy. it was not easy because there were different positions, different positions, and i think that a balance has been achieved between all aspects. it was very meaningful and very important to me that environmental sustainability was taken into account, but also socioeconomic sustainability. i think that is an aspect that we must not forget, because behind each of these decisions there are people and many populations who live from fishing activity. and so, that environmental sustainability we have to go along with also the attention to those people who live off of this. there are over 700 ships operating outside community waters and it is therefore of great importance and relevance to the european union and, of course, to my country. i would like to add my voice to the call for this balanced and fair consensus, which adds transparency and also adds essential features to the common fisheries policy, not to be overlooked with this amendment, and i ask that the gue/ngl group's amendment be voted against and that we support what we have all agreed to: this good proposal which i hope will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, thank you for being here. the european union is not just a set of institutions or a banking union, however important it may seem to us. if the european union means anything, it means citizenship. it means the rights and freedoms of 500 million people. it means equality before the law and an end to discrimination. it means being part of the largest democratic space in the world. this is what makes europe an example for all countries. a political and moral space that offers an alternative to authoritarian models that are economically powerful, like the chinese, or militarily threatening, like the russian. i am therefore particularly proud to be the rapporteur for this report, and i would like to highlight some of the points in it. we call for the negotiations on the european anti-discrimination directive, which has been sitting in the drawer for a decade, to be opened. we are asking for the decisive participation of the member states in particular. there can be no more discrimination on any grounds in the union. there can be no true citizenship without security. the report therefore calls for a european security agenda against any present or future terrorist threat, including the harmonisation of action in the member states and which should, in my view, be carried out by european intelligence services. the european union is a key player in the fight against terrorism. the prevention, detection and deactivation of radicalisation is also an essential element of security. we need to equip ourselves with programmes and resources to meet the challenges of our open and multicultural societies. europe fails every time a young european takes the side of those who want to destroy it. citizenship has a close relationship with truth. if we don't know the facts, our rights will be in jeopardy. europe must equip itself with the tools to combat propaganda and fake news, which seek to undermine democracy and which, too often, reach us under the patronage of authoritarian regimes. gender equality is another area where we are playing down the true meaning of citizenship. it is time to conclude accession to the istanbul convention and to enact a directive against gender-based violence. it is time to help, in short, to break down the wall of silence that protects those who harass and abuse women. many countries in the european union have been among the first to recognise the rights of the lgbtq community, but citizenship cannot be divided, so we must ensure that these rights are respected equally in every country in the union. today, many europeans with different forms of disability find it impossible or very difficult to exercise their right to vote. since without suffrage there is no citizenship, it is urgent to remove the obstacles immediately. the bureaucratic obstacles and the excess of paperwork and procedures which become an obstacle to the rights of europeans. we propose that the union's offices in the member states become one-stop shops for information and services from the union. and speaking of citizenship, it is inevitable to mention brexit. for the first time, a member state will no longer be a member state if it does not correct its course. and i want to remind you, as i always do, that article 50 is reversible. perhaps we haven't done enough so far to explain what leaving the european union means in terms of rights, in terms of citizenship. no one will gain from the uk's departure, but the british will lose rights that i am sure they will come to miss. finally, as we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the maastricht treaty, as we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the first time that we gave a letter of intent to european citizens, i want to thank all the alternative rapporteurs, all the teams that have helped us to make this consensus report, worked in collaboration with the commission, which i hope will be a very powerful tool so that this third citizenship report is what we need to have in our hands to make it effective.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president the committee on women's rights and gender equality strongly believes that the member states and the institutions of the european union, and in particular the commission, have an obligation to implement comprehensive measures against discrimination against women. and so we have proposed multiple actions. an anti-discrimination directive should be adopted now. all states should ratify the istanbul convention, and discrimination against the lgbtq community, especially harassment and intimidation on the internet, must be fought. the commission must heed our call for gender policies to be adopted across the union's policy framework. quality civic education programmes against prejudice, discrimination, stereotypes, etc. should be promoted and, above all, also work on campaigns to break gender stereotypes. ladies and gentlemen of the commission, i repeat these demands to you. remember that without will, without funding and without a strong administration there is neither a rule of law nor a welfare state.
mr president, i would like to mention what i consider to be a contradiction in this report. the title of the third report on european citizenship, which concerns us, speaks very well of a union of democratic change, because democracy can and must bring about changes backed by legitimate majorities and democratic mandates. however, recital g speaks of the frontiers of the member states as something unalterable, as if they were set in stone. and he is absolutely wrong in claiming that any alteration of frontiers would be contrary to the union's fundamental values and rights. i think it is a pity that a report on citizenship rights and democratic change does not recognise that in the 21st century the exercise of democracy and democratic rights can allow, if a majority so wishes, to bring about changes within the union in relation to the existence of the boundaries of the countries that actually exist.
mr president, i have to say... european citizenship is one of the greatest achievements of the european union. the european parliament is the democratic voice of the people. but this democracy cannot be real if all citizens cannot participate, and that is why i want to take this opportunity and focus on people with disabilities. the commission's motto for the international day of persons with disabilities was 'i am also a european', but the fact is that hundreds of thousands of people in europe with disabilities are not able to exercise their right to vote in national elections or in elections to the european parliament, in breach of articles 12 and 19 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. i therefore take this opportunity to improve this concept of european citizenship and to ensure that we fulfil the obligation established by the commission that all citizens, and in particular people with disabilities, participate in the next elections in 2019.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for their input. let me also inform you that the council welcomed the eu citizenship report 2017 in the conclusions adopted in may 2017 and highlighted that all eu institutions and member states must join forces to deliver on the priorities for european citizens. i am glad to see the same positive attitude in your report and i wish you a successful adoption.
the rapporteur. mr president, mrs jourová, thank you for being here for the conclusions. being a european citizen has to mean a lot more than it does now. it has to reassure, it has to give confidence, it has to protect, it has to give autonomy. it's got to be something to be proud of. it must mean so much that no european citizen wants his country to leave the union because if that happens, his people will lose something very valuable. being a european citizen means being part of a legal and value framework, and that is the integrity of european citizenship. mr solé was expressing a supposed contradiction in this report earlier about how what the treaties establish, which is territorial integrity, that is, the legal framework that protects us, is compatible with the possibility that a number of citizens might decide to change that territorial integrity. the desire or the will remains within the realm of the particular, but the law always prevails over the desire of some. the law is what protects us. the law is what makes us part of this project and guarantees us the rights that make us feel protected. i would therefore like to remind the members who have been following me on this report - which has been laborious, but i believe very valuable - that we must remember every day what we are doing here, who we represent, who has brought us to this seat. that is no more and no less than five hundred million european citizens, who are the people at the centre of this house. all of them. because each of us represents all of them, not just those who have elected us. if we do this, if we represent the people properly and are also citizens - because no one can tell us that those of us who are meps are not citizens, we must be the first to set an example and defend that citizenship - we will prevent populism and nationalism from destroying the basis of this incomparable project of unity. thank you very much, everyone, and i hope you will vote in favour tomorrow.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. kazakhstan is considered by the european union as a strategic country for its geopolitical and economic interests. the european union and kazakhstan have thus established a close economic and trade partnership in recent times. so much so that the european union is kazakhstan's largest trading partner - accounting for a third of the country's total trade - and also its largest investor. however, the human rights situation there is dramatic. the un rapporteur on the right to freedom of assembly and association, who visited kazakhstan in 2015, demanded an international investigation into the repression and torture that followed the peaceful demonstrations of oil workers in 2011, which, according to official figures, left fifteen dead and more than a hundred injured. according to human rights watch, against the backdrop of an economic recession, kazakh authorities in 2016 imprisoned peaceful protesters, prosecuted independent activists and journalists, and, moreover, passed laws in parliament that impose unjustified burdens and restrictions on civil society organizations. the osce election observation mission noted that the 2016 parliamentary elections were marked by serious errors and irregularities during voting and scrutiny and concluded that the legal framework of kazakhstan restricts fundamental civil and political rights. the european union's relations with kazakhstan are yet another example of the cynical exploitation of human rights, which are always subordinated to commercial interests. we will never stop asking for consistency.
mr president, commissioner, territorial conflicts are dangerous, they create instability. the union must prevent them by protecting what works and denouncing legal frameworks and political attitudes that ban dialogue and negotiation as tools of coexistence. i therefore ask the institutions of the union to support the basque economic concert and the navarre economic convention, centuries-old constitutional systems of fiscal responsibility, supported by majorities of close to 90% in the cortes generales, which involve unilateral risk and are transparent, supportive and effective for the development of regional self-government. the annual tax reports of this parliament reiterate that the concerto and the convention promote fiscal and financial responsibility, prevent deficit and corruption and promote actions of profound social content and policies to support the real economy that combat marginalization and create employment. the union's courts consider them to be fully legal because of their institutional, economic and regulatory autonomy. they must prevent demagogy, opportunism, the most stale nationalism and irresponsibility from bringing communities into conflict and creating problems of coexistence where none exist, as the president of the spanish government has just acknowledged.
mr president, last week around 50 000 catalans demonstrated in brussels, asking europe to finally ‘wake up’. instead of defending fundamental rights and democracy, the eu has preferred to support rajoy, the leader of one of the most corrupt parties in europe and also the leader of a government which, among other things, is unable to control public finances, to the extent that it has completely emptied the public pension fund. i am sure that, sooner or later, the european union will realise how wrong it has been with catalonia because you simply cannot defend the very idea of europe and, at the same time, by looking the other way, endorse repression against voters, the jailing of political opponents and the seizing of self—government institutions. without taking into account the people, their needs and their legitimate aspirations, the european union has no future. we, the catalans, love europe, but we want another european union. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, in this committee we have not known who the leaker of the panama papers was, and fortunately, because we would not have been able to protect him. and at this time we must remember the brave. the reporters have told us they fear the multi-million dollar lawsuits. but daphne caruana didn't even; besides being in the problem of multimillion-dollar lawsuits she was murdered. and his family has contacted us to tell us that they still need an independent commission of inquiry and they are not being informed. so, we named a room after him to honor his memory, but we have to do something else. in this committee we have had to review existing european legislation and its actual implementation, both in fiscal and financial matters. we have had to assess what is lacking in the fight against money laundering; how money disappears from public funds; how it is possible to finance terrorism, drug trafficking or sexual slavery. it is the most serious crimes, the most offensive to freedom, the most offensive to the rule of law. and the financial secret havens work with intermediaries in the rich countries, where those great estates are. some of the smartest tax advisers, lawyers, financial institutions, auditors and wealth managers have actually acted as facilitators of evasion or avoidance. and circumvention - as has already been said - is only possible if the member states actively or passively allow it. and the national and european financial supervisors are not working sufficiently - we have learned this. so, if the key to serious crime is hiding the real beneficiary of the money, we need to bring him out into the open. the council is not here today, and i am not surprised, because they have been cowards with the list and we cannot wait any longer, commissioner. in six months we'll talk again and you'll probably say something to cheer us up, but that's the way it is. we need transparency.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president we couldn't start this speech without expressing our gratitude to the filters and journalists. without your work, this commission would not have been possible, it would not have come about. because it is the scandals that motivate the institutions to have to make commissions to show that something is being done against tax evasion. if this committee has shown anything it is that this is not a cyclical problem, but a structural one. tax evasion and avoidance are structural problems. and that is precisely why we are proposing a permanent committee, no more special committees. a standing committee in the european parliament. for many, the inquiry commission has been nothing but a sham. but i think that we have succeeded in getting a good report out of this committee, based on the work we have done: recommendations which are not binding but which are important in order to be able to work against tax evasion, a useful tool. but many of the achievements of this commission are at risk. they are at risk because of the amendments by the alde and epp groups, which want to mutilate this text tomorrow by removing key elements for the vote. if this happens, we will be giving as embarrassing an image as the commission and council's whitelist of tax havens. tocqueville said that the french revolution really began with a previous revolt of the privileged. today, two hundred years later, we have a revolt of the privileged: those who do not want to pay taxes. (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker) )
mr president, commissioner, i would of course like to congratulate all the members of the pana committee on the work they have done, which undoubtedly brings a number of very positive elements to the fight. in such a short time i can only go to the essentials: the commissioner said that he was grateful for parliament's support. look, it's not support, it's a requirement. i mean, this is of greater political importance than one can imagine. when the panama story comes out and all that, and we thank the journalists who have reported it, some people react because of the disease of a football player, a super-rich man and so on, but the people know that democracy and above all the european welfare state are being unfairly attacked. it is not the person who programs it who is european, but the person who works it. the adversary is the council and it must be convinced that it must be much more ambitious because european democracy is at stake.
mr president, i have to say... i think we have a good report left. i regret the amendments tabled and the partial votes by the liberal and popular group and i would like to make a specific request to those liberal and popular members who do believe in fiscal justice: please support us tomorrow so that we can have a good report. and i am convinced that there will be many members who will not vote in favour of the official amendments tabled by their group or groups, and i hope so. because we also need a very strong report - which we have - because we know that we have a problem in the council. and one risk of this legislature is that after all the work done all the issues will be blocked in the council. and we have at the moment the directive on tax transparency, the common tax base for corporation tax, the blacklist, which has obviously left us with a bitter aftertaste, because it has many limitations, virtually no sanctions, it does not mention european tax havens. there is a battle to be fought in the council, and this parliament must come out with a very ambitious text tomorrow. i also join the call on the european commission to use article 116 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to make tax proposals in codecision and to get out of this unacceptable blockade of the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, democracy is a regime of public opinion. it is therefore inexcusable to congratulate the consortium of journalists who have courageously exposed the tremendous scandal which has given rise to the work of the pana commission. in my view, a common definition of a tax haven is a priority. it should also be noted that although some member states are not on the blacklist, it is not acceptable for some to behave like tax havens. we must distinguish between tax evasion and tax avoidance. evasion is always punishable and its pursuit must be relentless. tax evasion may be legal, but it's not ethical. we must prevent tax evasion from being allowed by law. there are laws which are not ethical, and therefore they must be changed to prevent the existence of privileged areas which, even if they comply with the laws, can evade moral and social commitments. finally, i would like to remind you that the role of the european union is to promote the reform of the laws of the member states so that their courts are competent to judge not by the place where the unlawful act is committed but by whoever is promoting it, and thus be able to rule against the offender.
mr president, i have to say... i would venture to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are dealing with one of the most important reports that this parliament will be adopting in this legislature. i would like to join those on the right in asking that the content of this report, the strength of these proposals, not be diluted. i think we're looking at a giant financial machine in general, around the world, to evade taxes. and tax evasion causes social alarm, in large part because it's lethal to the welfare state. there are going to be, in my view, three major lines of struggle in this long march for fiscal justice. the first is the struggle against the paradises. it is an idea that has begun to take shape, the european union is already making the list. it's not perfect, i know, but it's a list that no one in the world has ever made. and that's the first step. the second is the fight against tax opacity, banking secrecy, intermediaries. i think this is key in this long march that we are trying to carry out. and the third is international collaboration. we are facing an international issue that requires the efforts of all of us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the tourist industry. madam president, the socialists have welcomed this investment plan from the outset, to stimulate the economy and create jobs by means of investments which the member states - even those with excessive surpluses - would not have undertaken. but soon we began to lose some of the initial enthusiasm when we realised that the guarantee funds were going to involve significant and paradoxical cuts in programmes such as the esf, which were already investments of great european added value. however, the criticisms, the debate we have had, the monitoring of the projects, some good and some bad, have led us to the fact that in this new efsi, efsi 2, we have managed to reduce the cuts in the csf by almost half by using margins and part of the benefits of the efsi because it gives benefits. the size and scope of the bank guarantee has been reduced and it has finally been recognised that european road infrastructure also deserves investment, particularly in electric cars, gas and lng trucks and buses, and that it needs to be matched by alternative energy infrastructure which needs to be maintained. thank you, mr katainen, for that.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin, of course, by congratulating the rapporteurs on this report, mr bullmann and mr fernandes, because i think they have done a fantastic job and the groups and the alternative rapporteurs have tried to help as much as possible. the investment plan has been in operation for two and a half years. and i remember that when we did that evaluation report of its first year of operation, we already detected some failures, certain deficiencies. and that's what we've tried to solve in this version 2.0 of the investment plan. the first of these was the criterion of additionality, and i believe that with the requirements we have added we can achieve real additionality. because if we use the european budget as a guarantee, it has to be to ensure that those projects which are going to benefit from the budget could never have been financed otherwise and, otherwise, we would be giving away public money. we have also talked about better geographical distribution, and with cooperation with the national investment banks and the removal of obstacles to small projects - among other measures - i believe we can greatly improve the implementation of the investment plan throughout the european territory and also in the sectoral part, because we had detected that some sectors were not benefiting sufficiently. and so, with new specific criteria, we will put more emphasis on job creation, the fight against climate change, new technologies or sustainable transport and, finally, the budgetary part. and here we must admit that the commission, which we did not get to hear in the budgetary part in the first part of the investment plan, has put on the table a much more appropriate financing. in the first investment plan we asked the commission to reduce the need to provide the guarantee by 50% and here in the second investment plan it has actually done so and therefore with the same money we are going to be able to finance many more projects. - i'm not going to the hospital. and hopefully now we have a real investment plan.
mr president, commissioner katainen, i welcome the compromise found on this file. europe has an investment gap of a minimum of eur 300 billion a year. efsi plays a crucial role in filling this gap and intervenes where the market fails to do so, but we must reiterate that only a comprehensive framework for investments, structural reforms and common policy will foster growth in the eu. these three dimensions are complementary and necessary to each other. efsi will bring eur 500 billion up to 2020 for more projects, allowing citizens with innovative ideas to access finance more easily in order to launch new projects. this will also make efsi bigger, greener, more local and more transparent. efsi keeps a strict approach to the additionality concept, making sure the projects selected are risk-based and would not have been financed otherwise. this is very important, to avoid past infrastructure projects financed such as ghost airports, highways without traffic and high—speed railways without passengers. efsi should not become a new cohesion policy instrument. i agree with geographic balance in europe, but we are talking about investment and growth, not about new solidarity instruments. efsi also contributes to the cop21 objectives, to keep sustainable development and environment objectives in mind. efsi also increases the local presence level through the reinforcing of the european investment advisory hub. the decentralisation of efsi is also a key element, in my view. who better to identify local needs for the economy than local governments? of course, this has always to be accompanied by european supervision in order to select projects that have a real european added value. my congratulations again, especially to the rapporteurs.
madam president, mr vice-president, we must encourage investment in the european union, and the efsi, which has now completed its second year, is bearing fruit in that direction. i welcome the agreement to increase the period and the amount. the efforts to improve its transparency and complementarity with other european funds are welcomed. and i welcome its impact on smes, which are the economic engine of the union. so far, all kinds of projects have been financed in all areas, but let me highlight one example among all, a project in my homeland, in the canary islands: the bus rapid transit in las palmas. a project underway, with a two-year term and which will create more than a thousand jobs during the construction phase, before it goes into operation in 2021. but we can't settle. i am confident that the commission's estimates of eur 500 billion of additional investment in the economy by 2020 will be achieved and that the eib will actively and loyally cooperate with national promotional banks and private investors. i would like to end by congratulating the rapporteurs on a job well done.
what concerns us most about this report is the disappearance of the mandatory figure of the active farmer, because this means that golf courses can once again receive aid and that the money ends up in the hands of those who grab the land and do not generate wealth for the people. we are also concerned about the free flow of cap money to the financial companies, which we understand will only help to increase food market speculation, while 40,000 people die of hunger every day in the world. they say they want to strengthen the role of producers in the value chain. however, they do set up controls so as not to nullify competition, unless producers actually have some power to check the profits of the big distributors. but of course, we know that doesn't matter. we need a common agri-food policy which puts the defence of farmers' rights and the vision of women at the centre. more value to those who can mitigate the fight against climate change and less power to big corporations and agribusiness. it's that simple. a cap in that sense could change things, but we know that you are not interested.
mr president, before the crisis, investment in the european union was close to 23% of gdp. today it is barely 20%, threatening the viability of our production model. public investment has fallen by 25% due to the cuts, a situation which the efsi has done nothing to resolve. the european union has instruments to channel finance into the real economy. on the one hand, the eib, whose structure must be strengthened so that its resources can help stimulate lending to smes and to projects of general interest. on the other hand, the european central bank, which should be reformed to remove any conditionality in its intervention in the public debt markets. what the european union lacks is a budget commensurate with its needs, capable of bringing europe together territorially and of ensuring solidarity among europeans. the efsi does not merely replace european public investment, but rather redirects it exclusively in the interests of private investors. that is why i voted against the proposal.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. thank you, mr president. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i'll come to the double or triple hat of my role. let me start by thanking david mcallister and michael gahler for their great work and the entire parliament for its excellent and long-standing work. looking at your reports, i see first of all a very strong consensus amongst us on how crucial our unity has become for our european citizens and for the entire world. there is a need for the european union as a force for peace and security; there is a need for us to be a credible and reliable power on the global scene a rational, wise and calm one. so i am glad that your reports also demonstrate a great ambition, the ambition to make our union even stronger so that we can fully take up this role, because this is exactly what the situation requires. when we look at the world around us, we see not just uncertainty, not just unpredictability, but confusion and sometimes very dangerous confusion. this is why we are becoming more and more of a point of reference for so many around the world, because we are reliable and our partners know where we stand; we are predictable because we are open about our interests and values; we are cooperative, and our friends know that they can always count on us. when others have put in question the united nations and multilateralism, we have decided to invest even more strongly in them. not only have we supported antónio guterres in his work on reforming the un system, but we have also worked with un agencies all around the world, and particularly with unhcr and the international organisation for migration. when we set up our own initiative for the future of syria and the region with the brussels process, we did it to support the geneva talks led by the united nations through all possible means and in strong coordination with them. we have stood by the nuclear deal with iran and we are working for a peaceful solution to the crisis with north korea. we have invested in the un agenda for sustainable development. we have put our relationship with africa on a more equal footing, with so many joint initiatives, from our support to the g-5 sahel joint military force to the european external investment plan. we have invested in resilience, for example with our eastern partners, working on our youth, on the fight against corruption, on energy sector reform, and on strategic communications. and we have continued to be a force for peace and reconciliation, starting with our own region, europe, with the western balkans and a credible path towards our european union. we have become an indispensable partner for peace and reconciliation for a more effective multilateralism, for sustainable development. we have also become an indispensable partner and power for international security and a global security provider. in today's world, security and development go hand in hand. so hard and soft power must also go hand-in-hand. our work on security and defence is part of this broader picture. it has nothing to do with the militarisation of our union, we are not turning our union into a military alliance. but if we want to help our african partners whose growth is hampered by insecurity or if we want to make sure that instability abroad does not affect our own citizens, then we also need to be a credible military actor, using all our tools, including military ones, and using them the european way which means for peace, for development, for peoples rights, wisely and in a cooperative manner. this year our common defence policy has taken steps forward that seemed unthinkable just a few months ago. the gahler report is very ambitious, and i think these are the right times to be ambitious and daring. today the main building blocks of a european union of security and defence are finally there. we can now research and develop our defence capabilities together. we can buy together to ensure that we have the capabilities we need, while spending efficiently. we can act together to manage or prevent crises, to strengthen our partners, to make our citizens more secure. to get there, we have set up in just one year even if this is built on many long years of parliamentary work, and not only in parliament an impressive number of new tools and initiatives, all of which would have seemed impossible just a few months ago just last year, when we were holding this same debate in this hemicycle. we have done that while bringing our cooperation with nato to an unprecedented level. last year, we announced 42 joint actions with nato, we have implemented them i was reporting about that implementation with nato secretary-general stoltenberg just last week and, by the way, let me take this opportunity to congratulate him on the extension of his mandate to 2020 and last week at the nato ministerial meeting we agreed together 32 more actions, so our nato partners know that a stronger european union makes nato stronger because our member states and nato allies have one set of forces as you mentioned that can be used in different environments, different frameworks and our organizations can only be complementary. and now i come to the tools we have put in place during this year of work. first, we created the first ever command center for our military training and advisory missions. i have the impression that the demand for our military and civilian missions can only grow in the future, and now we have the right structures to plan and command our missions. secondly, with the european commission - and here perhaps i should jump over to the other side of the hemicycle - we have set up a european defence fund. for the first time ever, the european commission is committing common resources to invest in defence not to militarize our budget, but on the contrary to help member states spend better on defence by spending together. third, we have established a coordinated annual review on national defence budgets for which a trial run has just been launched, and the first progress report is planned for november next year. and of course, the most historic step: just yesterday, the foreign affairs council activated a permanent structured cooperation on defence. this was unimaginable just a few months ago, let alone at the beginning of my term. i remember very well that at my hearing before your joint committees and many of you may remember it as well i replied to a question from mr danjean that i would work to use all of the instruments that the lisbon treaty gives us, and we have. we did it in the most ambitious and inclusive manner, with 25 member states from the very beginning launching pesco together. the 25 have taken binding commitments to improving their cooperation, and the progress on these commitments will be assessed regularly. we will start with the first set of 17 projects. these are very practical programmes. they will facilitate cooperation between our armed forces, fill some gaps in our capabilities, and make our european defence spending much more efficient. i've mentioned this several times, we have an investment gap across the atlantic: the europeans invest 50% of what the americans invest in defense, but the output gap is much more impressive because what we get out of our investment is 15% of what the americans get, so here is where we can act at the european union level to make our investments in defense more efficient. these projects range from common military training to new technologies for protecting our critical infrastructures, to providing medical support to our operations, and i could continue. the possibilities of the permanent structured cooperation are immense and they will be even greater if we manage to make the permanent structured cooperation work together with all our new defence tools. the member states that launched the permanent structured cooperation have committed to participate fully in the comprehensive annual review on defence, and they will use the european defence fund whenever possible. the defence fund could be used to create a bonus for projects undertaken in the permanent structured cooperation framework. the coordinated review will help us identify new fields for cooperation so that permanent structured cooperation can step in. obviously these initiatives will have to be developed coherently and using all possible synergies, but i believe that is exactly what the lisbon treaty had in mind when creating the not double, but triple-hatted high representative, vice-president of the commission and head of the european defence agency. in fact, this is why i should deliver my speech somewhere in the middle of my speaking positions in the hemicycle, because i think that the work we have done this year also has an institutional value, to show that the different institutions we have can join forces in a coordinated manner towards one objective and delivering results that were considered impossible to achieve. i must confess that at this moment i am torn between two different personal feelings: on the one hand, i think habemus papam white smoke, mission accomplished but there is no time to celebrate. it is true that we made it, it's historic, it's big, but at the same time the real work is just about to begin. i think we have to be aware that this is a new chapter in the history of the european union, but today we have the paper, we have the ink, and we have a good story to tell. so we have work to do and i think we have to look immediately from today, the day after the decision on the permanent structured cooperation was formally taken in the council and look immediately at the next steps. so it is not only about the permanent structured cooperation and its possibilities, the concrete projects and many more other things, but other fields of action will also be on our agenda in the year to come. the work on our battle groups, for example, is not finalised yet, and i hope and i encourage member states to be ambitious and to achieve progress in the athena committee by the end of this year or early 2018. on top of that we are also working on new proposals on how to fund together our work on security and defence. together with nato we are also working to improve military mobility inside the european union, and this project also fits very well in our defence cooperation agenda. last but not least, i would also like to see in the next few months progress on our civilian missions and capabilities, because security threats have changed and this makes our civilian engagement even more important. think of our new mission to support security sector reform and stabilization in iraq, or our long-standing civilian commitment in the balkans or in eastern europe, and you realize that these are key elements of our work on security. so the european way to security and defence lies precisely in the careful and wise mix between targeted military and civilian actions. that is what makes the european union a unique security interlocutor and player in the world. in three years of common work since i started, our european union of security and defence has advanced enormously. i would say that we have achieved more in the last three years than in the previous 30 or 60 years and it makes me proud, also as an italian, that this happens in the year of the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome. that was part of the dreams of our founding fathers and mothers. but again, we have to look at the next 60 years. this should make us proud and it should make us more aware of our potential and give us the energy, the determination and the hope that we will need to continue strengthening the european union as a global player. let me finish with this. i have always been convinced, and am even more so today, that the european union is what we make of it. we decided to change things together in this field and we did, and now we are ready to work and shape our next steps towards a european union of security and defence and i am sure we will continue to work together and do it, now and in the years to come.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to acknowledge and welcome the work of our rapporteurs, mr mcallister and mr gahler. i think if there is one conclusion to be drawn from the two reports it is that in these times of uncertainty - as the high representative told us - no member state can solve the challenges we face on its own. this afternoon we shall also be discussing the situation with regard to the nuclear agreement with iran or the decision by the united states to move its embassy to israel. i would like to say that this same thesis applies to the member states of the european union and to the rest of the world. today, unilateralism, including that of the most prosperous or the most powerful, is a completely impossible dream. i believe that the way forward is the recommendation made by mr mcallister in his report: we must make a shared diagnosis and a clear diagnosis of the challenges and the new configuration of threats, especially hybrid warfare with its cyber dimension. we must deepen and consolidate the european union project through the development of new capacities - i congratulate you, madam high representative, on the projects you have put on the table, mainly the enhanced cooperation strategy - and at the same time strengthen our alliances with the strategic partners and with the atlantic organisation. and i think that - as you very well said, mrs mogherini - we do not have to rest on our laurels, even if they are well deserved, but we still have a lot to do.
mr president, i have to say... the truth is, mrs. mogherini, i really like to see you sitting in that seat. you should sit more often. it would give me a lot of peace of mind. sometimes, to know if you're right in politics, there's no way to listen to your opponents. the adversaries of europe are really upset by this undeniable advance in the common foreign and security policy. sometimes it is comforting to listen to them precisely because it assures us that we are on the right track. i think we are on the right track and i would like to congratulate you, mrs mogherini, because this has probably been possible thanks to your efforts and not only your efforts but, above all, your commitment. we must tell our colleagues who do not understand europe that the europeanist ambition is peace and security. and only then is prosperity possible. and what we defend within our borders we must defend in the same way outside. it is also worth saying - now that sovereignty is being cited as a problem - that there is no better way to defend the sovereignty of each of our states, and above all the sovereignty of our citizens, than by sharing the problems that are common. because the problems facing european citizenship have no borders. they have no borders. terrorism knows no borders. the problems of migration have no borders. the most serious problems we face have no borders: climate change. we therefore need a foreign and security policy that effectively ensures that our values are upheld in the context of a largely globalised world. and it gives me peace of mind that we can defend multilateralism. i am reassured that we can work on stability operations, peace operations, conflict resolution, very direct support for our neighbourhood, africa as a major centrepiece of european foreign and security policy, libya, tunisia, refugees, the defence of human rights. that is the european spirit, the europeanist spirit, which the majority of us here defend and which some of us have come to fight for, but will lose.
madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr mcallister and mr gahler on their good reports. i agree with them that a common and coherent external policy of the union is needed to defend the interests and principles of europeans and to deal effectively with the complex challenges and threats of today's world. the political weight and influence of the union does not correspond to our considerable economic, commercial, development cooperation and humanitarian aid weight. i believe that effective implementation of the global strategy adopted last year is the way forward for the full development of the potential of our external action and the deepening of our defence. i welcome, as many have already said, the important progress made in recent months and in particular the launch yesterday of permanent structured cooperation in the foreign affairs council. we will be stronger and more responsive to the demands of our citizens. that is why i congratulate you, mrs mogherini. one of our main priorities in the external sphere is instability in the neighbourhood, both southern and eastern. we also have global interests and we cannot afford to be inactive in any region. the transatlantic axis is a key element of our external action. that is why, as mr mcallister's report calls for, the important links with the united states must be preserved. it is also important to increase our presence in the vast asia-pacific region, whose stability we also need. we are in times of rapid change, of uncertainty and of serious threats such as terrorism and climate change. the union must be able to respond to the concerns and interests of its citizens and be a global actor committed to multilateralism that helps to generate peace, stability and prosperity.
madam president, i have to ask you. we are discussing two very important reports today to define the future of this defence union, just one day after 25 union states agreed to establish this permanent cooperation with the leadership of the high representative, mrs mogherini. it is in line with the commission's and this parliament's drive to promote this european defence fund to improve investment in research and consolidate a single market to improve the union's industrial capacity. and i think that this should not be seen as a military escalation or as a militaristic vocation of the european union, but quite the opposite. because if we are able to manage defence jointly, we can, in many cases, reduce the volume of funding, making it more efficient. and i think it is very important that in this new agenda we are aware that defence is already a part directly linked to security policies. or put another way, that security policies and defence policies are not radically different. and that line on which the global strategy and the high representative are working is a very essential part of the future of the union.
madam president, permanent structured cooperation has been presented as 'no more' in terms of independent european defence. it seems to me that this will be another bluff in terms of independence and at least as much a bluff as the eurocorps was. do you remember that european army created in 1991 by france, germany, belgium and spain? and today it's just a part of the nato response force. i am not saying this, you are saying it: strengthen the european pillar of the alliance; deepen cooperation with nato. or, as the high representative says, we cooperate more than ever with nato. the eu replicates and repeats like a parrot what nato says. they ask us for 2%, we give it. we are asked for military mobility, a military schengen: we say we will work together with nato. look, we are not going to have more security with nato; on the contrary, it is the negation of a common european security area. more military spending will be more arms race. we have almost 507 million people, and what they do is put a guardian on it, make a european union subordinate to geopolitical interests on the other side of the atlantic.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, as elected politicians, we should always set respect for human rights and democratic principles as top priorities, including when dealing with other countries. this is especially the case with a country like iran, which happens to be the world champion in the number of executions that it carries out. one thing should be clear: iran is a religious dictatorship where there are no free elections. unfortunately, the eu seems to have put aside all its core values and principles just to make a deal with the iranian regime. since the nuclear negotiations were started in 2013, coinciding with rohani’s election as president, over 3 000 people have been hanged by the islamic republic of iran. according to the united nations, this is the highest number of executions in iran in 25 years. to be honest, ms mogherini, we really missed some words in defence of human rights when you visited tehran earlier this year for the inauguration of rohani’s second term. many iranians have the impression that the eu has forgotten its principles in exchange for getting more business and trade benefits from the iranian market. what will the iranian people think when they see that all the visiting politicians are there only to close business deals, while remaining silent on human rights violations, including repression of women’s rights and ethnic and religious minorities? let’s think about that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you. i think that a fundamental question arises in this debate, namely whether the nuclear agreement with iran, which is one of the great achievements of international diplomacy in recent years, in which, by the way, the european union has played a very prominent role, should be treated separately or should be treated together with the situation in the region, in iraq, in yemen, in syria or in lebanon. the position of the president of the united states has been very clear. this matter has to be addressed jointly and that is why he did not want to certify the agreement and has sent it back to congress. however, i would like to say that i agree with the position of vice-president and high representative mogherini that it is important to preserve the achievements of this agreement, to address it separately and to actually try to prevent nuclear proliferation in the region. i therefore support and really share the view of the high representative. however, this should not lead us to ignore the disturbing situation - to which other colleagues have referred - of human rights in iran. the high representative has offered to have a critical dialogue and to address this situation at a forthcoming hearing. we are concerned about minority rights, the application of the death penalty and the situation of the opposition. i hope that the talks of the high representative with the vice-president of the united states, mike pence, with secretary tillerson and with congress can result in a more balanced position and closer to the position we hold in the european union.
mr president, the agreement with iran, unanimously endorsed by the security council in its resolution 2231, was a major diplomatic success. it cleared the grave threat of a nuclear iran and prevented an escalation of arms in one of the most unstable regions in the world. it also served to underline the role of the european union as a global actor, given the important role played during the negotiation. it has already been said in this debate that, according to the international atomic energy agency, iran is complying with the terms of the agreement. for all these reasons, we must support the maintenance of the agreement. however, this cannot hide the concerns that are still being raised about iran's ballistic programme and its negative regional performance, despite the hopes that the agreement has created for a more constructive attitude on the part of iran in the regional arena. its important influence on various actors in the region is well known. we need a much more constructive iran in the middle east. an iran that does not contribute to polarization and confrontation in a region ravaged by violence and where national, religious and ethnic divisions intersect.
the fact is that the president of the united states of america, probably because of electoral calculations, has come to set fire to the very fragile status quo between palestine and israel. this declaration is clearly a violation of international law, it is an illegality upon another illegality from the beginning. israel has long been flouting international norms and, unfortunately, not only in relation to jerusalem. the united states, which has hitherto been the guarantor and mediator of the middle east peace process, has preferred to renounce that role. it is very difficult for us to continue to rely on the united states as guarantor of anything after we have unbalanced the balance in this way. president trump is doing a disservice to the cause of peace and, of course, to his international commitments. i think it is time for the european union to take the lead. we have said this many times, but this must be the most timely at this moment and i believe that the response to donald trump's action is precisely the recognition of palestine as a state. that is the response that donald trump's provocation deserves and above all it is what we owe to the palestinian people. this is a serious and irresponsible decision and it is time for the european union to show its strength: its political strength and its moral strength. i understand the prudence of the high representative very well, but it is really a great opportunity to give a political and moral lesson to both israel and the united states. i don't know what else we have to wait for. it is time to recognize the palestinian state.
madam president, i have to ask you. mrs mogherini, i have to go. i think it is quite clear that trump's decision is a flagrant violation of international law, a unilateral action, breaking all the consensus of the international community, a contempt also for the agreements made in the past and a decision, moreover, that is generating, as we are already seeing, more instability in the region. a decision, moreover, which contradicts what israel agreed in 1993 in the oslo accords to find a negotiated status for jerusalem. i am one of those who believe that netanyahu's visit this week, madam high representative, was a mistake, but i want to acknowledge the firmness with which he has responded to trump's decision. and i also want to thank you for your initiative in having president abbas come to brussels in january as well. in any case, it is time to think about what we can do as europeans. and from this point of view, i believe that we should be committed to a two-state solution - as you have said - to the instruments we have - as has been mentioned, using for example the articles of the association agreement - and finally to a policy of differentiation, something we have been calling for for some time. it is time to move on to action and the diplomatic offensive.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i will try to address most of the questions and the comments with two or three observations. one: our role and the us role. is this move from the united states a possibility for the european union to play the mediator role alone? is the us discredited as an honest broker, as many think in the arab world? can we go forward alone? i want to be very clear: i believe that it is not in anyone’s interests to see the united states’ role discredited. it is in everybody’s interest to make sure that we create the appropriate regional international framework that can accompany the restart of talks. this is not the situation today, but i believe it is the responsible role of the european union to try to help moving in that direction. peace will not happen with the united states working alone on a plan, but peace will not happen without the united states being credibly engaged. i believe it is first of all an interest that our palestinian and arab friends share that we get to a point where together – and this is why we are engaging in the quartet and with others in the region – we join forces. it is not either/or. it is not either a european union initiative or a us initiative or anybody else’s initiative. we have to join forces. this is why i said there is not going to be a european union-specific initiative or a specific mediating role that i am going to take or that we are going to suggest. no, we need to unite and join forces because this is not an easy conflict to solve, and we need all the relevant players to be engaged, but on a clear political horizon: two states, jerusalem the capital of both, and steps that can be accompanied by this regional international framework to help the parties get there. this is also why i did not say to prime minister netanyahu that he is persona non grata – definitely not. he is the prime minister of israel. i made it very clear – very clear – that we disagree on many different things, and i was probably clear even beyond what is normally done in diplomatic terms, because this is the way in which things should be. the european union has a clear position. it states very clearly, it is consistent, and all its member states are consistent with it: we are not going to move embassies, we are not going to recognise jerusalem as the capital of the state of israel until the final status of jerusalem is determined through direct negotiations, and we want to see two states where jerusalem is the capital of both. we are very clear on that but we talk to everybody, starting with the parties. the european union is well positioned, and is credible. i know that sometimes it is not perceived like this, but it is a credible interlocutor and partner for the two parties, the regional relevant players and the international community. otherwise prime minister netanyahu would not have been in brussels yesterday morning, meeting the european union and discussing the perspective with us. even if i disagree with him on many things, i appreciate the fact that he visited and i think it is useful that we engage first of all with the parties on the way forward. and, by the way, it would be a little bit strange to play the mediator role and not talk to one of the parties. this is not even in nature, i have to tell you. the second point: what is the priority now? first, to keep the situation on the ground calm, and this is why i am insisting on this report, which we need to give it to jordan and to his majesty the king of jordan. keep the situation calm in and around jerusalem, and not to allow violence or escalation to take root. second – and this goes together with it – to support the forces of wisdom in the region and to avoid a vacuum on the political scene, which would open the way for radical forces to benefit from this development. this is a specific role that the european union can play because of our position; that is very clear and loud. the risk that i see is that the discourse gets polarised and that the forces that have always worked for peace, including in the arab world, get isolated and marginalised, and that radicals take the leading role. this is a risk that israel cannot afford, and that the palestinians cannot afford either. the palestinian leadership has always been ready to engage in dialogue for peace, in direct negotiations, and it would be damaging to both the palestinians and the israelis, but it is a risk that we are running. third, as i said, keeping the political horizon, the political objective, very clear: two states with jerusalem as the capital of both. fourth, building an international and regional framework that can accompany the restart of direct negotiations. and last but not least – this is our own homework – i was pleased to see full unity in the foreign affairs council yesterday (we always underline whenever we have a little comma that is different one from the other); 28 member states fully in line, singing with different voices exactly the same song, consistent with the united position we have and have constantly had. this is what makes us powerful in passing the message, and i believe that this is going to be key for the continuation of our work. last but not least, i took the opportunity of prime minister netanyahu’s visit yesterday in brussels to wish him a happy hanukkah already, but please do not turn a religious celebration into a political argument. this is very dangerous, and it is not respectful to religions. maybe it is because i was born a few hundred metres away from the vatican that i think this. this should not be done, and especially this should not be done when we are discussing the situation in jerusalem. it is dangerous; religion should never ever be used for political purposes on either side.
in writing. the president of the united states of america, by electoral calculation, has set fire to the very fragile status quo between palestine and israel. this declaration is a clear violation of international law. the illegalness of the israeli appropriation of the basic law in 1980, which was declared null and void by the security council, is one illegality after another. the state of israel has been in breach of international standards since its birth and, unfortunately, not only in relation to jerusalem. the united states, which has hitherto been the guarantor and mediator of the middle east peace process, prefers to lose this status and now puts israel on the side of those who break the rules. the european union must take the moral lead in the peace process and definitively secure the recognition of palestine as a state. that's the answer to the statement. the member states must react by supporting the new state. the european union can demonstrate its political and moral strength by accompanying the recognition of the new state with intensive economic support, so that the agreement on reconciliation between the palestinians is viable and gaza is brought out of desolation.
in writing. president trump's announcement on the capital of jerusalem is not only a bombshell against peace in the middle east, but an affront to international law and the entire world community. according to the united nations, east jerusalem is the capital of palestine and israel's claim to take over the whole of it can only be understood from a racist and ethnic cleansing perspective of the palestinians. it is the denial of the other through contempt for legality and for force. the european union must firmly uphold international resolutions, recognize the palestinian state with its capital in east jerusalem and at least show the same firmness towards those who are violating the world as it does towards small countries. the eu should be present diplomatically in east jerusalem to show support for a palestinian state against those who seek the imposition of an apartheid state as in the past was racist south africa.
in writing. the president of the united states of america, by electoral calculation, has set fire to the very fragile status quo between palestine and israel. this declaration is a clear violation of international law. the illegalness of the israeli appropriation of the basic law in 1980, which was declared null and void by the security council, is one illegality after another. the state of israel has been in breach of international standards since its birth, and unfortunately not only in relation to jerusalem. the united states, which has hitherto been the guarantor and mediator of the middle east peace process, prefers to lose this status and now puts israel on the side of those who break the rules. the european union must take the moral lead in the peace process and definitively secure the recognition of palestine as a state. that's the answer to the statement. the member states must react by supporting the new state. the european union can demonstrate its political and moral strength by accompanying the recognition of the new state with intensive economic support, so that the agreement on reconciliation between the palestinians is viable and gaza is brought out of desolation.
in writing. the president of the united states of america, by electoral calculation, has set fire to the very fragile status quo between palestine and israel. this declaration is a clear violation of international law. the illegalness of the israeli appropriation of the basic law in 1980, which was declared null and void by the security council, is one illegality after another. the state of israel has been in breach of international standards since its birth, and unfortunately not only in relation to jerusalem. the united states, which has hitherto been the guarantor and mediator of the middle east peace process, prefers to lose this status and now puts israel on the side of those who break the rules. the european union must take the moral lead in the peace process and definitively secure the recognition of palestine as a state. that's the answer, the statement. the member states must react by supporting the new state. the european union can demonstrate its political and moral strength by accompanying the recognition of the new state with intensive economic support, so that the agreement on reconciliation between the palestinians is viable and gaza is brought out of desolation.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, as you can see, for this debate i am pleased to be joined by commissioner avramopoulos as we were asked to cover both the external side of this situation and the internal work of the european union. as commissioner avramopoulos is responsible for our internal work on migration, he will complement my introduction and will stay for the conclusions as well. we have all seen the images on cnn of the detention centres in libya. unfortunately, what the media has reported is not new. we have discussed this in this chamber several times and this is not the first time that i am telling you about it personally. i first heard the stories about the detention centres and the unthinkable violations of human rights a few years ago in lampedusa; i was surprised that the rest of the world was not strongly reacting to stories that had been well known, not just for a couple of weeks, but for years. i heard them from people who had been tortured or had lost their loved ones. i heard them from the ngos, from doctors and humanitarian workers who had been in those centres. if any of you have seen the film ‘fuocoammare’, which i believe was also shown in the european parliament in brussels, i have heard those stories because they are told and are shown just in a film. so unfortunately there is nothing new. but let me tell what we did after we first heard those stories, which does not mean two weeks ago, but a few years ago. personally, i would say that it was still too late because europe and the european union should have acted even earlier, but it is now two or three years since we decided to act in a situation that was not easy. well before the media started to report on the situation in libya, the european union started to act. how? we engaged with the united nations and in particular with international organisations for migrants to provide an alternative to migrants stranded in the country. i have said many times that our goal is to close the detention centres and i remember very well saying this in this chamber a couple of months ago. we have worked to do precisely this, but it cannot be done overnight. we have now been working with the iom and the unhcr for a year, supporting their work inside libya, which is the only way to address the situation. we need to give these people the opportunity to leave libya safely, towards a better life, or i would rather say towards a life because in the detention centres you cannot call it life. thanks to our work—the work of the european union—just this year we have assisted over 15 000 migrants who were trapped in libya and who now have been able, not only to go home with assisted voluntary returns supported by us and practically and operationally done by the iom, but to start a new life. i will give you one example. i was told the story of a group of ten young men from the gambia who went home from libya, thanks to our support, and with our funds bought a small refrigerated truck and are using it to deliver fish around the country. this is just one little story and is one example out of thousands of good stories about voluntary and sustainable returns. it is with stories like this that we also show local communities that embarking on a dangerous journey is not only a risk but is extremely dangerous and you might end up in a worse place than the one you left. these are the kind of stories that i think we need to share and we need to tell. we believe this is the right way to do things. it is humane, sustainable and with the right international standards in cooperation with the unhcr and the iom. today new partners are finally joining our work. the summit between the european union and the african union ten days ago in abidjan was a turning point. it was a turning point not only on this, but was a key political summit for the eu—african union partnership. this is not the issue we are discussing tonight—that is the tenth debate that we can have at about one o’clock tomorrow morning. on this issue our african partners have realised that it was time to seriously engage. i believe our african partners had had enough of seeing their brothers and sisters dying in detention centres or along the route in the desert. they want to stop it and to stop the criminal networks that are making money out of death and slavery. we have set up a joint task force with the african union, the european union and the united nations precisely to address the situation of migrants inside libya and, already in the first ten days, the results are quite impressive. right after we did that, in just nine days, we have assisted almost 2000 migrants in going back home from libya voluntarily with the assistance of the iom and there is a new awareness and a new common determination to act. so thanks to this we now aim to transfer a further 15 000 people who are currently in detention centres. this would allow us to empty—to empty—the current population in the detention centres in the next few months. this is feasible. we have already assisted 15 000, 2000 of them in the last nine days, and we are aiming to transfer another 15 000 in the next couple of months with the practical work of the iom and the cooperation of the african union on the ground. but this is not enough. for some people going back home is not an option because of war or persecution. so for those who have the right to international protection we need to open new avenues to come to europe or other safe places. the commission has proposed welcoming 50 000 people in need of international protection and we have just launched a new programme with the unhcr called the emergency transit mechanism. the first transfers have already taken place so that those who have the right to receive asylum can come safely to europe instead of risking their lives. is this enough? clearly it is not and we are frustrated by every single person we do not manage to reach and every single place we do not manage to go. you know the situation on the ground in libya. it is not easy for the iom and the unhcr or for the ngos simply to get around or to get access. clearly it is not sufficient. it is not enough yet and we need to continue working together, including with the libyan authorities. we need to overcome once and for all the system of systematic detention. we must allow the complete and proper registration of migrants and prosecute the criminal groups who are smugglers and enslavers. i discussed this with president sarraj this morning in order to prepare together the first meeting of this task force between the european union, the african union and the united nations, which i called for at a political level for thursday morning in brussels. we will have this first operational meeting at a political level to accelerate our common work in libya, but also beyond libya because the situation further south along the route is also not at all rosy. we, first of all the european union, are working to put an end to death and exploitation, to reduce risky journeys, to save lives at sea and in the desert and to provide international protection to those who need it. we are also working hand in hand with the united nations to make progress in the political process in libya. let me conclude with a word on this before i give the floor to commissioner avramopoulos to complete my remarks. the political process in libya is, first and foremost, for the benefit of libyans. we sometimes tend, with our european lenses, to forget that libya is not just a place where migrants are passing through or detained. libya is a country that has gone through very difficult times and is still in a very difficult situation. the libyans themselves need to see our political support to overcome the current situation, but obviously improved governance will also help address the migration challenge inside libya. so the european union is actively supporting the un action plan at every stage. i met with president sarraj ten days ago in abidjan and, with special representative salameh in rome ten days ago. while there is not much progress to report yet, there is some movement in the right direction, but it is fragile and we need to stay resolute, particularly to support the libyan political agreement through and beyond the deadline of 17 december. so it is clear that this job will not be done in a day. there will be bumps on the road and we will need long-term engagement, but we are on the right path. we are the only possible path to manage migration in a more humane and sustainable way and, finally, we are not alone. we will continue to work with all our determination, together with the african union and the un and in particular, the iom and the unhcr.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for the invitation to discuss this very, very sensitive issue here tonight. i am more than happy to be here and wish to complement what my colleague, ms federica mogherini, said some minutes ago. the situation is as described, but i think on the ground it is even worse, and the images we saw on cnn recently do not reflect the reality. we are conscious of what is happening there, but let me start by making one thing crystal clear: it is not the european union’s action that has created an inhumane system in libya. quite the opposite. for far too long these unacceptable, appalling, conditions have existed there and it is the european union which, together with its international partners, is coordinating the efforts to address and improve the situation on the ground. our collective efforts cannot ensure from one day to another a result which equals our expectations, but with our joint and international cooperation we hope to achieve results in the short to medium term. we are working in a very difficult context, as you are all aware. an inclusive political transition, along with the stabilisation and economic consolidation of libya, remains a key prerequisite for addressing migration—related challenges in libya in a sustainable way. within this complex framework, we are managing to work in libya on all possible fronts. cooperating with third countries, especially in north africa, is a cornerstone of the comprehensive migration policy that we propose to step up in our contribution to the leaders meeting this thursday evening on the way forward in migration. together with the international organisation for migration (iom), the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) and other humanitarian organisations, we are focusing first on improving the conditions of the migrants stranded in the country, secondly, on supporting their voluntarily return and reintegration back home and, thirdly, on creating legal pathways to europe for people in need of international protection. i am not going to repeat what ms mogherini has already said about registration, humanitarian assistance on the ground, and the voluntary reintegration of migrants to their own countries. i will focus on the legal pathways which should become the preferred way for people in need of protection to safely reach europe. in mid-november, the first group of 25 of the most vulnerable persons needing protection was evacuated from libya to niger for further resettlement in france, thanks to the support of the unhcr, to eu funding and the consent of the governments of both libya and niger. with eu support, more evacuations from libya to niger will be carried out by unhcr in the coming weeks. as announced in our roadmap presented last week, our target is to reach 1 000 by the end of february. the continuous evacuation of people trapped in libya depends on several factors. it is, of course, linked to the capacity of our member states, together with other destination countries, to rapidly resettle from niger the asylum—seekers evacuated. as you know, in september, the commission called on the member states to make available at least 50 000 resettlement places in the next two years for asylum-seekers located in some priority countries. this, of course, includes the countries of the central mediterranean route. member states replied in a very encouraging manner, offering until now almost 40 000 new resettlement pledges, and we are confident that additional pledges, from member states which have not yet replied to our call, will be offered. meanwhile, the moment to start fulfilling these pledges has already arrived, and i count on the support of the european parliament in reminding them of the urgency of this. i also count on your support for the target we proposed to the leaders – that 25 000 resettlements take place before october 2018. in parallel, we continue to help the sahel countries to better manage their borders and reinforce their capacities in relation to the fight against migrant smuggling and human trafficking. i understand that there are still concerns about the efficiency of our collective action on the ground, as amnesty international today reported. instead i would call for more, and stronger, joint cooperation between all actors and partners, since we all have the same objectives: stability in the region, unity in libya, solidarity and practical support for the people in need. i look forward to the exchange of views with you tonight.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam high representative, commissioner, the images broadcast by various media in which sub-saharan immigrants are the victims of a kind of slave auction at the gates of europe are scandalous. the european union and its member states have strongly condemned the inhumane situation to which smugglers subject migrants as they pass through libya. it is estimated that there are between 400,000 and 700,000 people living in these degrading conditions today. i also welcome the reaction of the union, the african union and the united nations at the recent abidjan summit to seek an immediate solution to this intolerable situation and the commitment to help the libyan authorities to deal with this very serious problem. we must develop a migration policy which takes account of the situation in the countries of origin and transit and which, alongside the management of migration flows, includes an effective policy of development cooperation with our african partners: investment projects, institutional consolidation, security and protection of human rights. a policy that creates opportunities so that it is not necessary to emigrate to have a decent future and that ends the business of the mafias that traffic in human beings. in the case of libya, no solution can be implemented without an inclusive political transition and the stabilisation of the country. the union must be fully involved and support the efforts of the un representative to achieve a political solution for a united and peaceful libya.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president the living hell, that's libya. and it's told by those who manage to escape. torture, sexual violence, kidnapping, slavery - the horror of every day. mrs mogherini has explained it perfectly, and not for the first time today. the video published by cnn has indeed not discovered anything new, but, like that cruel photo of aylan "remember?" has managed to remove consciousness and that the reactions accumulate. let us use this momentum to move in the right direction and also so that you can explain what the european union is really doing. but it is very important that we put the protection of people above the protection of borders. that's the big difference between those of us who think this way and those who are just obsessed with security and border control without thinking about people. the question is how to act in libya. if there is no state, no structures, no interlocutors, how can we find a solution? there is a huge concern about what we are doing in libya and who we are doing things with in libya. and this can only be remedied by more transparency, and this debate is an opportunity for that. the situation in the country certainly does not allow us to deal with the humanitarian tragedy and that is why the idea of returns is a good idea, a very good idea. but they go back to their countries, what chance? how far are we prepared to share responsibility for this side of the mediterranean? or are we going to systematically try to push the problem away from our borders? how are we going to deal with economic migration, which, in human terms, is an understatement? economic migration, people looking for a life, a bearable life. so once again, we insist that europe needs to clearly define, for its own survival, a sustainable migration policy. for that, we need to open up more legal and safe avenues for immigration. i say it louder, because we've said it many times. the only way forward - and the high representative knows it well - is to build a real partnership with the countries of origin and transit by reconciling interests, sharing projects and taking on responsibilities.
madam president, i think we are not approaching this debate properly: today it is not the place to discuss how migrants are enslaved, tortured and raped in libya, because this is already well documented. the debate is why all this is being done, promoted and paid for by the european union. it is the european union that is financing a libyan coastguard made up of militias that have sunk boats full of migrants at sea, that use violence systematically and that persecute ngos. it is the european union that funds these detention centres where there is physical and sexual violence, where migrants are malnourished and tortured. and instead of opening safe and legal pathways for these people to get to europe -- which they say a lot but don't do -- instead, what they do is deport them back to the war and poverty they fled from. the question is: who will accompany libyan torturers when they sit on the bench of the international criminal court for crimes against humanity? will they be accompanied by mr tusk, mr juncker or mrs mogherini?
madam president, i have to ask you. yes, mr avramopoulos, the european union is doing something, but i have the impression that we are doing something wrong. or something, or the how of something, or the since of when, or the for of what or the with of who. because while we support the united nations and its envoy, mr salamé, in his road map to try to stabilize a country that has exploded into a thousand pieces - which we treat in this room as if it were a country with a government and a country that can be required to do this or that, when we don't even really have a partner who governs the rest of the country - we find that the other un human rights envoy, or amnesty international, or doctors without borders, or other organizations that are there on the ground are fiercely criticizing us, because our policy is, unfortunately, still reactive. i don't blame you alone. the member states also bear a great deal of blame and a great deal of responsibility. and in fact we are just now implementing either an italian agenda or a german agenda or a french agenda or whatever. 2017 was the year this parliament wanted to have been with the libyans. i wanted to go to show that the european union, more than just financial programmes, had the capacity to give a message for the future, a political message for the normalisation and stabilisation of the country. i am afraid we will not succeed, because precisely these days we are witnessing a situation of mismanagement - by the images and by the real situations of immigrants - in a country which, i repeat, we treat from the european union as if it were a country with a government. and the problem with libya is that it's a country that's been blown to pieces and that needs to be treated in a different way, not as if it's just another country where terrible things are happening, but where terrible things are happening to libyan citizens as well. from the european union i think we should be a little more ambitious in making a comprehensive program for libya and not just reactivate if there are immigrants, if there are now slaves, if now... no. libya is a complete country with all its citizens, with all its shares and it needs a comprehensive policy and a comprehensive budget and not in pieces, which all we do is blow it into more pieces.
madam president, just a few days ago i had the opportunity to hear in abidjan, on the occasion of the european union-africa summit, the moving testimony of the survivors of the route to libya from all parts of africa. slavery, torture and ill-treatment of human beings are nothing new in that region of the globe, but the magnitude, scale and, above all, public exposure through the media, clearly tells the european union that it is not the time for analysis, but for action. the european union must launch an international investigation into what constitutes a crime against humanity. the european union must promote, with the united nations, international action to convert the present detention centres, where massive human rights violations are taking place, into reception centres where human rights are respected. it has to ensure that funding meets its objectives and it has to open legal avenues with humanitarian corridors and humanitarian visas that give a chance to those who risk their lives and lose everything in the process. the next visit of a delegation from the european parliament to libya may be a good opportunity to change course, to change our view and to take action.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. – madam president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm), i want to recall that more than 50% of the world’s population is composed of women and that women’s rights are basic human rights. it is therefore essential that this dimension is well covered in this report. in particular, i am worried to see that sexual and reproductive health and rights were quite overlooked. it is unacceptable that women and girls’ bodies remain an ideological battleground. the integrity of women and girls’ bodies is an inalienable human right that should be protected. a few months ago, we witnessed how the trump administration reinstated and expanded the global gag rule. this is a breach of human rights that will jeopardise efforts to fight diseases such as aids, zika or malaria and to reduce high-risk births and child mortality. in that sense, it is fundamental that the eu and its member states fill the financing gap left by the us in this field.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president as this report says, we are at a time of a global backsliding in human rights. i think that the honduran people deserve special mention in these weeks, as they have suffered more than a dozen murders in the demonstrations against electoral fraud. the report raises interesting ideas, but the problem is that these ideas do not correspond to the practice of most member states. so while defending the role of the european union as a promoter of human rights, it is forgotten that they are also violated within it, as is the case at the southern border of ceuta and melilla or in the immigration detention centres. the european union has prepared to criminalise the human rights defender helena maleno. the violation of human rights by european multinationals, trade agreements, the military industry, the plundering of natural resources and so many other practices make us think that if this continues, the positive aspects of this report will in practice be left on wet paper. we have to rectify.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, as in so many others, the important thing is to allow efsa to work with complete autonomy. we have an excellent scientific authority which is responsible for issuing the opinions on which our policy decisions are based. a further assessment by efsa is required as provided for in regulation (eu) no 257/2010. until then, i think it is obvious to point out that it is not appropriate to make any value judgments and even more so when the information published by this authority so far indicates that there is no clear indication of a risk to health, which is the most important thing: the health of our citizens. we must therefore reject this objection which would put the work of many people at risk directly or indirectly and await your opinion which, as the text of the objection itself indicates, must be tabled within one year. if it is found by the efsa in the future that there is any risk to human health, i will be the first to support such re-evaluation of this substance. until then, we can only trust the scientific work of the european authority, which is the one that really cares about the health of all our citizens.
madam president, i would like to refer to the unacceptable document on migration which president donald tusk has tabled for discussion in the council. in my country, there is a saying: "eyes that do not see, heart that does not feel". but with this document mr tusk seems to show that there are hearts that do not feel even if they see human suffering in person. nor is it listening, because it has not listened to this parliament, nor is it listening to the efforts being made by the commission. the council seems to be insisting on a provenly wrong path on migration and refuge, which is to push back, to make borders wider, to impede ever more urgently legal pathways for migration. a proven wrong way. this is what president tusk is presenting in his document. and so you are liquidating the prestige of the european union and its values. and then they wonder why anti-european populisms are winning the battle.
madam president, i have to ask you. i congratulate mr barnier on his work and congratulate him on conducting the most transparent negotiation in history. we've finally agreed to divorce. now we need to talk about what kind of open relationship we want to have in the future. we have agreed that the rights of citizens are protected by law and that our law will be incorporated directly into british law and, to ensure this, that for eight years the european court will be able to rule by creating case law. we have agreed that the bill for the agreement will be reasonable and will meet three rules: that no one will have to pay more than they are paying; that the commitments made will be honoured; and that the united kingdom will not pay more than it would if it were a member of the european union. on northern ireland, we commit ourselves, even if there is no hard border, to respect the good friday agreement, the territorial integrity of the united kingdom and the integrity of the single market. it is very difficult and we are going to have to work very hard here because we are all going to support the irish government's position to the end, until this declaration is possible. during the transitional period the united kingdom will remain part of the customs union and the single market, respecting the four freedoms, but will no longer be able to participate in the election and decision-making of the european union. what is left to do then? the most difficult part is to finalise the technical details of this political agreement, to determine the duration and scope of the transitional period and to start negotiating a trade agreement. this deal is not the end of anything, it's simply the beginning of everything. this is a political agreement, with many loose ends from the technical point of view, which mr barnier will now have to negotiate and tie up. we did the easy thing. mr barnier, now comes the hard part for you, because, as always, success will be achieved by a brexit that does not look like a brexit.
madam president, the december council has a very busy agenda: the brexit negotiations, structured cooperation in the field of defence, which has been described as a 'sleeping beauty', which would force the social agenda, long overdue in dealing with the crisis and discussed in gothenburg, to be described as a 'cinderella', but still pending practical achievements in the field of decent employment, social protection and the re-launching of opportunities for young people, including the erasmus programme, promoted by the late spanish commissioner manuel marin. but what is unacceptable in the council's record and what needs to be radically changed is the issue of migration, because the council continues to be contaminated with a negative view that links all external cooperation, including humanitarian aid, to the return of immigrants, who are always seen as a threat. we must create legal channels, promote humanitarian visas and humanitarian corridors, particularly in north africa. and it is the only chance to restore the free movement of persons within the schengen acquis, the most precious and cherished thing for european citizens.
in writing. the letter on migration sent by president donald tusk to the heads of state and government for discussion at the next european council is unacceptable. mr tusk seems to be demonstrating that there are hearts that do not feel even though they see human suffering firsthand. nor is it listening, because it has not listened to this parliament, nor is it listening to the efforts being made by the commission. the european council seems to be insisting on a proven wrong path on migration and asylum, which is to push back, to make borders wider, to impede ever more urgently legal pathways for migration. a proven wrong way. this is what president tusk is presenting in his letter. the proposal is anti-european because it breaks one of the main pillars of the european project: solidarity. in this way, the president of the european council is destroying the prestige of the european union and its values. it should not surprise us that anti-european populisms are winning the battle.
in writing. the letter on migration sent by president donald tusk to the heads of state and government for discussion at the next european council is unacceptable. mr tusk seems to be demonstrating that there are hearts that do not feel even though they see human suffering firsthand. nor is it listening, because it has not listened to this parliament, nor is it listening to the efforts being made by the commission. the european council seems to be insisting on a proven wrong path on migration and asylum, which is to push back, to make borders wider, to impede ever more urgently legal pathways for migration. a proven wrong way. this is what president tusk is presenting in his letter. the proposal is anti-european because it breaks one of the main pillars of the european project: solidarity. in this way, the president of the european council is destroying the prestige of the european union and its values. it should not surprise us that anti-european populisms are winning the battle.
in writing. the letter on migration sent by president donald tusk to the heads of state and government for discussion at the next european council is unacceptable. mr tusk seems to be demonstrating that there are hearts that do not feel even though they see human suffering firsthand. nor is it listening, because it has not listened to this parliament, nor is it listening to the efforts being made by the commission. the european council seems to be insisting on a proven wrong path on migration and asylum, which is to push back, to make borders wider, to impede ever more urgently legal pathways for migration. a proven wrong way. this is what president tusk is presenting in his letter. the proposal is anti-european because it breaks one of the main pillars of the european project: solidarity. in this way, the president of the european council is destroying the prestige of the european union and its values. it should not surprise us that anti-european populisms are winning the battle.
in writing. the letter on migration sent by president donald tusk to the heads of state and government for discussion at the next european council is unacceptable. mr tusk seems to be demonstrating that there are hearts that do not feel even though they see human suffering firsthand. nor is it listening, because it has not listened to this parliament, nor is it listening to the efforts being made by the commission. the european council seems to be insisting on a proven wrong path on migration and asylum, which is to push back, to make borders wider, to impede ever more urgently legal pathways for migration. a proven wrong way. this is what president tusk is presenting in his letter. the proposal is anti-european because it breaks one of the main pillars of the european project: solidarity. in this way, the president of the european council is destroying the prestige of the european union and its values. it should not surprise us that anti-european populisms are winning the battle.
i apologize for the delay in resuming the sitting, but the truth is that, firstly, we finished the voting period late and, secondly, i had to attend, at the request of president tajani, to a meeting which prevented me from arriving earlier.
the next item is the topical and urgent debate (rule 153a) on the enlargement and strengthening of the schengen area: bulgaria, romania and croatia (2017/3009 (rsp)). i would inform the honourable members that neither the 'catch the eye' procedure nor the 'blue card' procedure will apply to this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i want to thank you most cordially for the chance to take part in this topical debate which is very close to my heart, on a case on which i have, in my national capacity in the council, intervened repeatedly in the direction that mr pittella just indicated. ten years ago, on 6 december 2007, the council decided to lift internal border controls for nine member states that had joined the union in 2004. the decision, which applied as of december 2007, marked a significant step forward for the benefit of people travelling in the enlarged schengen area with no internal border controls. in recent years we have been faced with migratory pressures and terrorist threats to an extent not seen before. this has put the schengen area under heavy pressure, but we have not remained idle. many steps have been taken to sustain the full and proper functioning of schengen, and many proposals are in the pipeline. at the justice and home affairs council in october this year, ministers had an extensive exchange of views on schengen, particularly on the proposed schengen border, the borders code amendments, in relation to temporary internal border controls. while progress has been made on a number of files, a number of questions remain outstanding, with internal border controls in place in six countries in the schengen area. it is therefore necessary for us to further intensify our work to get back to normal operation of schengen, including viable alternatives to internal border controls. against this background, the presidency organised an informal debate between the ministers of the interior at last week’s justice and home affairs council on 7 and 8 december. ministers had a good and constructive debate, and even if there are diverging views on some issues, there is a general consensus that we must do our utmost to reinstall and strengthen our trust in schengen. ministers took stock of measures already taken, such as the entry/exit system. we looked at measures currently discussed, such as the eu travel information and authorisation system, the schengen information system proposals and the proposal for amending the schengen borders control. and, in direct relation to the issue discussed in our debate today, ministers also reflected on how we can move forward on the pending full application of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania. both countries have fulfilled all the necessary conditions and have made significant efforts to guarantee the security of the eu’s external borders. however, the decision to fully apply the schengen acquis for the two countries, for which we need unanimity, is still outstanding. the improved situation regarding migratory pressures, and expected early agreement on a number of the measures currently under discussion, could perhaps change the situation. the presidency on 7 december was happy to conclude the discussion, concluding that we have to continue working hard in the coming months on strengthening the schengen area, including via enlargement. as for croatia, it is still in the process of being evaluated in the run-up to full application of the schengen acquis. the council has already adopted several implementing decisions setting out recommendations to address the deficiencies identified with a view to croatia fulfilling the conditions necessary for the application of the schengen acquis. a small number of issues remain to be evaluated and we are looking forward to receiving the commission’s proposal for implementing decisions thereon in the near future.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing my thanks for adding this very important debate to the agenda and, in particular to thank mr gianni pittella for this initiative. i know that this was – and remains – a priority for all political groups. only some days ago we also had a fruitful and frank discussion in the justice and home affairs council with the ministers of the interior. let me start by highlighting the following. no matter how much work we collectively do in the three institutions, in the end, we will be judged by our success or failure only on three or four topics. schengen is one of them. for our citizens, it is the symbol of the european union itself. it is the most tangible example of european integration. it represents all the rights and benefits of being european, as it is closely connected to the freedom of movement and the notion of european citizenship. you all know my personal commitment to safeguarding and upholding schengen since the very first moment i took office. we said in the past that a unified schengen is a stronger schengen. we are convinced that bulgaria, romania and also croatia, as soon as it is ready, should fully join the schengen family. this will enlarge the area of free movement and make the schengen tools perform better and thus increase security. for a long time the commission’s position is that bulgaria and romania already fulfil the necessary conditions. they were positively assessed between 2009 and 2011. as you know, it is now for the council to decide on the lifting of internal border controls with bulgaria and romania unanimously, and it is high time that this happened. our discussion with the interior ministers last week left me optimistic that there is agreement that this issue must now again be seriously considered. as far as croatia is concerned, we are working closely with the authorities to identify the areas where improvements are still necessary in order to positively conclude all the schengen evaluations as soon as possible. this will allow us in the commission to complete the first stage and conclude that croatia is also ready to join schengen. then it will again be for the council to decide. the schengen evaluations in 2016 and 2017 verify the necessary conditions for the application of all relevant parts of the acquis. in some areas, croatia meets the necessary conditions for joining schengen. in other areas, further improvement is required, and we stand by the croatian authorities to continue with the same commitment. a full implementation of the schengen acquis will also allow the drawing of full benefits from systems such as a schengen information system and the visa information system in relations between romania, bulgaria, croatia and the other schengen states. it would also allow them to implement the entry—exit system in the most efficient way, without installing it in border sections which would become internal borders after their accession to schengen. the implementation of the ees will be a particular challenge for croatia given its long land border. here the european union is willing to provide support. finally, the setting up of the ads will strengthen the management of the external borders and therefore schengen. bulgaria, romania and croatia are playing their equal part in protecting the european union’s external borders. fully joining schengen is not only politically fair, but it is also needed from a security point of view, because the internal security of one member state is the internal security of all and the security of all our citizens. i hope that we can welcome these member states to schengen soon following a positive decision by the council. as i said before, from the moment that i took office, i have been advocating that we need a strong and unified schengen. today i would like to commend and to praise the authorities of the three countries for their commitment. we are running the last mile. let us run it all together. today the parliament and the commission, tomorrow the council. i hope your message will be heard by the council, mr pittella.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of the european project. it is a dream come true. after world war ii, few people could imagine that one day europe would be united and living in peace. seventy-two years after, borders between european countries do not exist any more. they exist only on maps and in the heads of those who want to destroy the union. four hundred million nationals of more than 25 different states travelling free with no passport check, with no border controls and within a single country: this is what europeans have accomplished, and we have to be very proud of it. but schengen will not be completed until all members who want to be part of it have the chance to join. my group has a clear position on this: any member state that fulfils the membership criteria should join schengen, and the truth is that bulgaria and romania fulfil these criteria. already in 2011 this house adopted the coelho report confirming that romania and bulgaria were sufficiently well prepared, and regarding croatia, even if they have not yet fulfilled all the conditions, they are making great progress. in this situation, trying to politicise this debate with different issues is a huge mistake. first, because these three countries are not in the same situation, and second, because accession to schengen cannot be mixed with the cooperation and verification mechanism. the decision on accession to schengen must be based on technical criteria, and a delay based on political reasons is simply unacceptable. there are no first-class and second-class countries. we are all european countries and we all deserve the best. that is why we stand today with our romanian, croatian and bulgarian colleagues. this is what we can all call solidarity, and the day we stop showing solidarity among us is the day we will lose the right to call ourselves europeans. we ask the council to please do all that they can.
i'm seeing some blue card requests. the point is that in debates of this kind the regulation does not provide for the use of the 'blue card' procedure or the 'catch the eye' procedure. i said so at the beginning of the debate, but i see that some people are asking for it. it is a purely regulatory matter, it is not arbitrary, it is not a whim of whoever is currently presiding over the house, i am simply following the rules. thank you for your understanding.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. there was a time when all the institutions of the european union spoke the same language when it came to schengen, aware that it was, along with the european social model, the most precious and most valuable asset of the european construction for five hundred million europeans. but that time has now met with a problem. and the problem is the council, which has not only suspended the free movement of persons, the most precious asset for europeans - schengen - but is threatening to extend the suspension until 2020 and, above all, excludes from that free movement two member states of the european union which have done their duty, which have met all the technical criteria. it is therefore committing a grave injustice against romania and bulgaria and threatening to do the same to croatia by preventing full and full-fledged european citizens from enjoying the free movement of persons. the socialist group wants to tell the romanians and bulgarians that it fully supports their right to free movement and does not want the romanians and bulgarians, or tomorrow the croats, to be less citizens than others in the european union and it tells you, commissioner, that the suspension of schengen is damaging the credibility of the european union as a global actor and is damaging the coherence of the european project in the eyes of europeans. and so it feeds those rampant enemies that threaten and stalk the european union: exclusionary nationalism and populism.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, it is always a pleasure to debate with you, madam commissioner, and to have the honour of speaking to you, but i will continue in spanish. it can be said that, fortunately, 2017 is the year of the social in the european parliament and in the european institutions. finally, it has become clear that we were not a cabinet of financial rescues and financial policy, but an instrument for european citizenship and that social policy must play a major role at this moment. it is also the year in which the fight against inequalities was born and something very important also happened, namely the introduction into the european semester of the social aspect, the social value, the measurement of inequalities and the attempt to correct them. but of course, we want results. we want something tangible, so it's very good that you already have some things in place and, of course, we need to ask you to help us accompany them. we will accompany them to develop this actively but we will also demand it. i think it would be good to prioritize the issues and develop an action plan, instead of one thing here and another there, however important each one may be, and that is with the idea of preparing a new convention in which the social dimension will have to be much less subject to the barrier of subsidiarity. you just heard right now where the problems are coming from. i would also say that, of course, free movement of persons must never be impeded, nor free competition impeded by the fixing of administrative prices at any factor. but, within that, you create citizens with us through social policy, but for that you need solidarity funding.
mr president, i have to say... now that we in the european union have regained a modest degree of optimism from the economic recovery after a few years of heart failure, it is time to deal with the scars, the very serious and deep scars left behind by the years of the great recession. social scars that have above all a common pattern: inequality. inequality between countries, divergence -- when we were a machine to converge -- and inequality within countries. an inequality that has generated pockets of poverty, of fear, of uncertainty, of resentment. things we've seen every time we've opened the ballot box on the continent over the last few years. and it is in this context - at a time of social fractures - that the european institutions have agreed on a european pillar of social rights. a positive step, a step in the right direction, a modest step - it must also be said - which aims to establish opportunities, working conditions and social protection. that is seen by us, by the socialists, as the soul of the european project. but we need this soul to take shape, to take shape in the form of binding regulations, public policies, instruments and resources necessary to regulate working conditions in the face of precariousness and wage devaluation; to fight against gender discrimination; to address the pockets of child poverty that we have. and to do all this also within the framework of the european semester, the real machinery for coordinating the economic policies of the union. we are therefore disappointed that the commission's legislative agenda is still poor. this cannot become another source of frustration for the citizens. we have in our hands the opportunity and the need to regain the legitimacy of europe and to move from being seen as a cold tool of globalisation to a warm home that protects citizens. that's what the social rights pillar is for.
mr president, the scars of austerity are enormous: 20 million unemployed in the european union; 25% of the population at risk of poverty; increasingly temporary, precarious contracts; young people with very damaged prospects for the future... and it is clear that we have at the moment a problem of political choice with the tax rules we have adopted and a problem of institutional articulation which puts our social and tax systems in competition. and now we want to make a social pillar, which is a good idea, commissioner, but we are concerned about what is behind the social pillar. the commission has announced today that it will be revising the directive on written information, but i have to say that this was already planned before the social pillar. the new package of measures for reconciling work and family life was also envisaged by the withdrawal of the proposal for a directive on maternity leave. with that, we have the new employment agency and the social security number, which is important but limited. i have two proposals for you: a directive on minimum wages and a directive on minimum wages. let's be a little more ambitious, please.
the usefulness of the social pillar will not be measured by empty, grandiose proclamations, but by its effective implementation, and it will contribute to improving the working and living conditions of workers. we make several proposals to you from parliament. the first is that they should listen to the legislative proposal put forward by the trade unions, starting with the reform of the written declaration directive, so that the terms of employment of all workers are explicitly recognised. they must push for a minimum income framework directive, carry out inspections and controls to stamp out the false selfemployed and also the mail-order companies in the single market. we have been calling for these concrete proposals for some time and they cannot be postponed until the next parliamentary term. the council and the commission must ensure that the rights recognised in the social pillar, the right to a decent wage, to decent work, to collective bargaining, to social protection, are interpreted by analogy with the rights already recognised in the european social charter, making them binding and at the same time unifying international social rights legislation with the european acquis.
mr president, commissioner, i have recently had the opportunity to meet with organisations that are fighting extreme poverty and, although they consider the social pillar to be a very important step, they regard it as a mixture of hope and scepticism. it is true that the signing in gothenburg shows the political will of the european institutions and the member states to move towards a fairer and more equitable european union, but, commissioner, we have set expectations very high and i am concerned that we will not live up to them. the ratification is a sign of the political commitment of all member states to give priority to social aspects in their policies. this is a commitment which must be reflected and which requires the joint responsibility of all the institutions, including the social partners. many european countries already have social assistance, but if we cannot finally count on a larger budget from the union, as would be desirable, we must manage existing aid better so that it is really effective and reaches the most excluded citizens. and for that, madam commissioner, we need the support and participation of ngos working with the most vulnerable, as well as people living in poverty, because their knowledge is key to making policies targeted at them the most appropriate.
mr president, for the first time in ten years the european commission has recovered the word 'social' and we are glad that it is finally beginning to realise that the recipes for dismantling the welfare state have only led to more poverty, more precariousness and more inequality. among the proposals under this social pillar there are positive developments such as the proposal for a directive on conciliation, which, however, must undergo major changes if we want it to be really effective in the fight for equality in the labour market and not perpetuate the gender divide in care. however, most of the new social rights mentioned are not so new because they are already enshrined in the european social charter and the new legislative proposals are mostly directives that needed to be reformed. europe must speak out about why wages remain so low, why inequality continues to grow, why quality jobs are hardly being created and why social exclusion is increasing. until we make a 180-degree turn in the economic and social policies of this union, we are talking about a completely empty social pillar.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president little progress has been made since the 2030 agenda was adopted two years ago. the political will to prioritise sustainable development objectives is urgently needed. to do this, the european union and its member states should appoint political leaders who have the power and, above all, the political will to guide the whole government and push this agenda; establish a structured and clear government process to implement the agenda, involving all ministries; and conduct a thorough and honest deficit analysis, clearly indicating where there are contradictions between policies. and so we would be strengthening the principle of policy coherence for development. we must also adopt an implementation plan to meet the agenda that covers national and international policies, especially trade, and establish a robust monitoring framework, in the private sector as well, because not a single one of the objectives will be achieved if we are not able to regulate the behaviour of our companies, and for that we need binding rules on due diligence. so it is inconsistent to sign the sustainable development goals while we continue to fail to develop, for example, binding legislation on such deadly value chains as textiles, or if we continue to obstruct the process at the united nations to create a binding treaty on business and human rights. otherwise we shall be returning to the old ways of talking, of making fancy statements, of making ostentatious claims, and in practice we shall be going in the opposite direction. at this rate, we will not reach the targets in 2000 or 3030.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i want to start by saying that i welcome this initiative by the commission, an initiative which means making more europe because it means tackling common challenges from unity and solidarity. first of all, my congratulations. the catastrophes of 2017 have shown that our resources are insufficient: more than two hundred victims died in portugal in the latest fires and one million hectares burned during the last year, which is three times more than burned during the last five years in the european union. in short, the consequences of climate change are devastating and require more concerted and stronger action. but it's not just climate change, it's also earthquakes or health threats like ebola or zika. in short, there are insufficient resources, which makes it clear to us - as the commission stresses - that we need a permanent mechanism with its own resources and also with comprehensive action, from prevention to reparation. and, focusing specifically on the commission's proposal, i would like to stress, of course, the specific area of climate change and four aspects. anticipation: in order to prevent, we need to assess the risks well and for that a risk map of the different regions in which also the water resources we have in the different regions are included. complementarity: we need a sum of efforts, as the commissioner has very well said, not substitution of resources from the member states. coherence: consistency between all the eu's political and financial instruments and especially on climate change. it is a global challenge that requires coordination and cross-cutting action. we would need a specific body for climate change, able to deal with this great challenge in a 'coordinated' way. and reparations: specifically, the solidarity fund. the solidarity fund we have to change. we've seen in the recent catastrophes that it's insufficient, that it penalizes those regions that are large when you measure global gdp and not real wealth by gdp per capita. we need to change it and also introduce the environment as a criterion for repair. in short, despite all that i have said, i think this initiative is a great success and i offer it our full support to see it through.
mr president, i have to say... in spain there are still 135 monuments to the fascist dictator francisco franco, including his tomb in the valley of the fallen, for which public budgets allocate 750,000 euros annually for maintenance. in the last three months, there have been dozens of actions by spanish far-right groups in catalonia, many of them involving violence that usually goes unpunished, and also with the public and notorious use of fascist symbolism. in fact, we are experiencing a worrying uptick in this type of stock. since the spanish government, like other governments in the european union, has no interest in prohibiting the exaltation of fascist ideology and symbolism, determined action at european level would be very welcome. it would not be the way to end hatred and intolerance, but it would be a step forward.
mr president, i share the concern of this house about the resurgence of fascism and its symbolism. i am surprised, however, that almost no one has mentioned that most of the historical expressions of fascism have had to do with the exaltation of the fatherland above all else, and always with the ignorance of the other. we must fight this feeling, this human subculture. and we must do this - as the estonian minister very well said - by keeping society alert, that is, by establishing a general culture of combating this subculture, this human temptation; and by educating in the values of citizenship, in the knowledge of history; and also by sanctioning when behaviour merits sanction, even criminal sanction. this whole culture has to be articulated and i join the efforts to make sure that we wage a real battle against this.
in place of the author. mr president ladies and gentlemen, this is an oral question which we put to the council and the commission as an expression of a complaint which parliament wishes to make to both institutions. modern parliamentarism has been characterized for some time now not only by legislative capacity but also, and above all, by control of government. and in government control, parliaments have a fundamental tool in setting up commissions of inquiry. it is no accident that the treaty of lisbon established that the european parliament had a legislative initiative - something we do not have in any other field - in drawing up a regulation on how the european parliament's committees of inquiry should function and what powers they should have. and this was established in the european constitution, in the treaties, to replace an old rule, an institutional agreement which regulated parliament's research functions since 1995. the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, adopted its proposal for a regulation in 2014. it was the so-called david martin report. and it is true that it did so without agreement with the commission and without agreement with the council and therefore it should not have been approved, but we did so - the parliament of 2014 - in order to ensure that the initiative did not die at the end of the previous legislature. since the person who is speaking to you was appointed rapporteur on this matter by the committee on constitutional affairs, that is, since september 2014, i have been trying to negotiate with the commission and the council and i have met with all the presidencies that have been in place since then: the latvian, the luxembourg, the dutch, the slovak presidencies, and of course the maltese presidency, and we have had various conversations with all of them, always well-intentioned, to resolve this problem. but we have never managed to start formal, serious discussions to resolve the differences, the concerns that the commission and the council expressed at the time about this old text. in october 2016, the slovak presidency proposed a solution to the problem and suggested that the legal services of the commission, parliament and council could meet discreetly, informally - we could say so - to draw up a common text, if they were able to resolve the technical differences that existed around the previous text. and i want to tell you that these meetings of the legal services of the three institutions have been taking place from october of the year 2016 to may of the year 2017. and in nine very serious meetings the legal services of the three institutions have come to some approximation. they have not solved everything, because they are not responsible for doing so, but they have, let us say, delimited the differences and established a text that could solve this problem. but from may 2017 until today the situation has stagnated again, because the legal services have raised their agreements with their political directorates in the council and in the commission and the political resolutions of the commission and the council have not taken place. so, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that three long years have passed and we have not been able to start talks with the institutions. in spite of our willingness to do so, in spite of the many forms of dialogue we have proposed, in spite of the many alternatives we have put forward to make our texts more flexible. and here are my assessments, ladies and gentlemen, because so far they have been the facts. my first assessment, ladies and gentlemen, is that i want to point out that, in my view, there is strong resistance in the commission, in the member states and in the council to the european parliament's drawing up of a rule with powers for committees of inquiry to investigate what happens in parliamentary life. secondly, what is happening is that reality is putting more and more research experiences. in the last two years alone we have had two very important commissions of inquiry. we have today adopted here in the house the report on the panama papers, which presents a set of extremely important resolutions on a subject which has caused social alarm throughout europe, namely tax evasion, tax avoidance and unfair competition between states within the european union itself. and we have had the commission on the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector. and there's going to be more and more. and the question is whether or not this parliament will have a provision, a capacity to have its own rules of procedure. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the european parliament is ready to dialogue, to negotiate and to reform if necessary. to dialogue and reform if necessary. if the commission and the council inform us - even if only officially - that they accept the text prepared by the legal services and we can start negotiations, i undertake to bring to the committee on constitutional affairs, if necessary, a text which can be negotiated with the institutions. if that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying on behalf of parliament - and i think i express the opinion of all my colleagues, of the other rapporteurs from the various political groups - that your silence is contempt for the european parliament. that your refusal to negotiate offends the european parliament and that your behaviour so far does not correspond to the institutional loyalty we owe each other.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report. according to council of europe data, one in five children has suffered some form of sexual abuse and this does not include the issue of refugees or what is happening lately. in about three quarters of cases, the perpetrators are also people close to the victims. and, unfortunately, the internet has served as a conduit for new forms of sexual abuse. but in the face of this, and despite the adoption of a specific directive, most states have transposed it poorly and late, including my country, spain. in addition, the commission has published its report on the application of the directive a year late and has received many complaints about its superficiality. keep that in mind. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat this problem. it's a doubt that has to assail us. it is up to you, the commission and the member states, to make the protection of minors one of your priorities and to demonstrate that you are working for the good of the citizens. do your homework, please.
mr president, i have to say... i'm not sure. thank you, anna maria, rapporteur for this excellent report. thank you for your tireless work on behalf of children's rights. in these christmas days of lights, gifts, images of happy children, there is another face that is not bright but very dark and very cruel for millions of children who are sexually exploited in europe and in the world. the directive, which aims to combat sexual abuse and child pornography, is therefore the answer needed to ensure that children and adolescents who should be safe are not duped by adults who subject them to abuse, rape and abuse and then use those images, leading, in many cases, to suicide, because they are victims over and over again. it is necessary to criminalize sexual extortion, which affects more and more teenage girls every day. when will protection and increased protection for the most vulnerable victims be achieved? we need member states to have a clear definition of child pornography; tougher penalties for possession of child abuse material; to block websites that disseminate content; more police and judicial cooperation; and the internet industry to take responsibility for ensuring the safety of children once and for all. the difficulty of prosecuting these crossborder crimes makes it more difficult to fight them, but from this parliament we demand zero tolerance for those who violate the rights of children. so, prevent, prosecute, protect and respond to victims.
in writing. child abuse is a horrific crime, contrary to human dignity, and which must be prosecuted more effectively at european level especially in this age of digital opportunities and transnational crime. i am pleased to note that this report includes a balanced gender perspective: it recognises that sexual abuse impacts girls more, but also underlines that there is a significant percentage of boys involved. moreover, one recital acknowledges that 'men are less likely to report abuse'. i think we should go deeper into this pathway of making male victimization visible, imagining solutions to reduce social stigma and ways of intervention that are better adapted to the needs of children and boys who suffer abuse, from prevention to treatment. i would also like to draw attention to an important aspect of child sexual exploitation not covered in the report, which is not related to production but to consumption: the massive availability of pornography in this digital age and its negative impact on the moral and neuropsychological development of children, adolescents and adults. consumption is also a form of abuse. i would therefore encourage this matter to be placed more strongly on the future agenda of parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president last year i was rapporteur for this report which mr marias is presenting today, and after a year the criticism we have is still mainly directed at the commission. we ask you once again to be more clear in your written and oral answers. you must also give us more information on the proceedings against the states, within the limits of the confidentiality you speak of. we must also be taken into account in the reform of the european citizens' initiative and we also demand that the commission once and for all enforce the precautionary principle, particularly in environmental matters and also in health. why not if this principle has not been established? because we continue to see in the committee how in many countries, including my own, in spain, projects are being torn apart and environmental impact studies are being torn apart, as well as access to information and citizen participation are being violated, as in the famous aarhus convention. i would also remind you that without this precautionary principle, other essential principles such as legal certainty or subsidiarity cannot be guaranteed, not to mention irreparable environmental damage. we must wait, as always, for disasters to happen and for the facts to be settled and then there is no solution? please apply the principle.
mr president, i have no doubt that the intention to reduce emissions in transport is sincere and shared by the majority of this house, but this is an unsustainable road map if we make the green transition dependent on the objective of reducing costs and increasing profits for private companies. it is environmentally unsustainable, according to the logic of the market, far from ecological sustainability, as we are seeing with the devastating expansion of biofuels or with the disproportionate growth of activities such as aviation. but it is also socially unsustainable, because consensus cannot be generated towards another production model through privatizations or the precariousness of working conditions. we must break with the strategy outlined in the white paper and reconcile social transition and ecological transition in the transport policies of the european union. this is the way forward in europe.
in writing. the emission reduction justified by the use of biofuels is a hoax. the current biofuel policy, even if limited to 7% use, will increase ghg emissions in the transport sector. if greenhouse gas emissions from indirect land use change are taken into account, biodiesel emissions are on average 80% higher than fossil diesel. although bioethanol has some reductions, it does not meet the minimum requirements required by the renewable energy directive. using land to grow raw materials for fuels is very energy-inefficient. while a football field planted with corn can fuel 2.4 cars for a year, the same expanse of photovoltaic panels could generate annual power for 260 cars. it should be added that, in the absence of sustainability criteria, the use of palm oil for biodiesel in europe has increased by 600%. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. the sad conclusion is that european drivers are the biggest consumers of palm oil, without knowing it.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president the european union has recently concluded negotiations on a free trade and investment agreement with vietnam. an agreement that ignores the needs of the people without even having studied the impact it will have on human rights, already very deteriorated in that country. an agreement which, like ceta, further favours privileged transnational corporations by creating arbitration tribunals; an agreement which has no effective clauses on human rights; an agreement which only favours the interests of the past, especially by encouraging mining and the plundering of natural resources. with this agreement we shall have many more cases like the one we are dealing with today, mr van hoa, who, let us remember, was retaliated against for his peaceful resistance to the systematic violations by a company operating under the asean agreement. we are tired of the european union talking about human rights and then turning a blind eye, turning its back on its own principles, on human rights violations, always putting commercial interests first. we will never tire of demanding political consistency.
madam president, it is worrying what is happening in vietnam, where citizens have been imprisoned simply for wanting to express themselves and freely and democratically defend the human rights of their fellow citizens. many of those people imprisoned, moreover, are not without a fair trial, but have not been tried and there is no provision for trial for them. unfortunately, political and democratic abuses are taking place by the authorities of the communist and totalitarian regime in vietnam. that is why the european institutions must support and show solidarity with nguyen van hoa, who has been sentenced to seven years for informing the public about the abuses of the communist regime in vietnam. and the european institutions too, madam president, must condemn that asian country, vietnam, for its repressive policy and its tyrannical policy against its citizens.
author. madam president we are here to demand the freedom of teodora del carmen vásquez, evelyn beatriz hernández and all the women imprisoned in el salvador for having abortions or for suffering involuntary abortions. also to demand the total decriminalization of abortion in this country, but also in other parts of the world where abortion is prohibited or only allowed under certain circumstances. denial of sexual and reproductive health and safe and legal termination of pregnancy constitute a form of violence against women and a serious violation of their rights and dignity. the so-called gender equality cannot be achieved without guaranteeing women's free choice over their bodies. we demand that the european union and its member states be and ensure that the right to access voluntary family planning and safe and legal abortion is recognised for all women, whether in el salvador, in europe or in any other country in the world.
author. madam president, in el salvador abortion is prohibited in all cases. all of them. including rape, of course. but he was also punished as we in europe punish murders, with penalties of up to thirty years in prison. because it's considered aggravated homicide, even miscarriage. evelyn hernandez is a young salvadoran woman who was raped. he claims his son was stillborn. and yet, she's sentenced to 30 years in prison. and so are seventeen other women in salvadoran prisons, including teodora del carmen vásquez, whose sentence has just been confirmed by the judge. we are facing an enormous injustice and it is a punishment against women in one of the most violent countries in the entire region. it's a punishment against the most vulnerable. it's a repeated, insistent punishment against the victims themselves. and it's a punishment for the whole country, because what it does is block its progress, its development and its evolution. and we're not just talking about a matter of freedom. the price of the prohibition and extreme criminalization of abortion is nothing more and nothing less than the life and health of women. i deeply regret that there is no will and no consensus in this house on what the united nations high commissioner has called for: the decriminalisation of abortion in all circumstances and the possibility of abortion in some cases, at least, as in el salvador.
madam president, i have to ask you. teodora del carmen is thirty-four years old and has been in prison for more than ten years. ten years in prison for losing his daughter in premature birth, and the salvadoran authorities yesterday confirmed the thirty-year sentence. women in el salvador are criminalized. it's not just teodora. there are more than 30 cases of women who have suffered miscarriages and are in prisons deprived of their liberty. we cannot allow europe to allow women to be deprived of their freedom to decide their own lives in any part of the world. we must be aware that we are talking about human rights, and the european union's foreign and cooperation policy must guarantee the sexual and reproductive health rights of all women in the world. because their fight is our fight. our body is freedom. we will continue to work from europe for all women in the rest of the world.
madam president, since 1998 abortion has been persecuted. since the year 2000 almost more than 120 women have been prosecuted for this issue. sentenced to between 30 and 50 years. it doesn't matter if they were raped, it doesn't matter if their lives were in danger. today my thoughts go to teodora, who has already served ten years in prison; to evelyn, 18, who is facing more than thirty years in prison. and i think it is very important that this parliament should call for his release today and that the necessary legislative changes should be made to put an end to this situation. and i want to say that we are not far from it, because right now there are in the salvadoran congress initiatives to change the law. and that is why i think it is essential that the european union gives a push to these legislative changes so that we can change this situation. the european union delegation in el salvador is doing a good job in this regard and it is very important that, in view of what will happen next year with the elections in the country, this can be a real change that is operated and that these women can get out of prison and that, once and for all, a woman is never prosecuted again for having had an abortion.
mr president, in the european union the transport sector accounts for a third of energy consumption and a quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. it is also one of the sectors that has seen the greatest increase in emissions since 1990. therefore, moving towards a sustainable mobility model is a fundamental task. but again, we have to be careful with greenwashing. with those who use the fight against climate change to wash their image. the use of the misnamed natural gas and some biofuels is not an appropriate solution at all. these fuels only perpetuate the extractivist model and anchor us to a global model with excessive need or dependence on transport. we must therefore massively develop public transport and improve rail transport, improve intermodality and digitalisation in the sector and include externalities with the 'polluter pays' principle. these tools are some of the measures needed to help us breathe less polluted air.
