in writing. thousands of refugees are suffering in europe from extreme weather conditions. there have been reports that serbia, for example, is obstructing the movement of refugees, putting their lives at even greater risk. there are also reports of criminal groups engaging in refugee kidnapping, physical abuse, threats and extortion among refugees. despite the efforts of governments to move refugees to warmer living conditions, hundreds of people are still forced to spend the night in tents in the cold. it is important that member states stop obstructing the movement of refugees and help them find shelter to survive the cold in a humane way. in addition to the member states, which are primarily responsible for addressing the refugee problem, the eu institutions should do their utmost to help countries in their current situation. the eu must also support aid organisations in their activities.
mr president, there is a saying that it is better do something good late than never. i think that if we had had the european pillar of social rights at the beginning of the enlargement process, we would not now have such big differences between the new member states and the old ones. it is very good that, before making the very important changes which come with the digital revolution, we are now discussing what we have to do with regard to social rights and defining social protection for decent working people in this new situation. we very much hope that we will do this in time and that, before these jobs disappear and new jobs arrive, we will have an understanding of the new social policy and standards and the common social pillar. then we will an upward convergence rather than a downward one, which is what we have seen up to now.
mr president, three energy packages later we are still trying to achieve one important objective: make the energy single market work for businesses, for consumers and for our environmental goals. three packages later, the electricity market is still the fourth—lowest ranked service according to the consumer scoreboard. it shows one thing quite clearly: that protecting national energy production and sticking to rigid centralised systems is not the right answer. therefore, one key objective for all of us in building the energy union should be to bring the european energy market up to speed with the 21st century by bringing technology and utilities together. but let us take smart meters, for instance, where, eight years after the third energy package, some countries are still discussing whether the deployment of smart meters is relevant or not. in the meantime, some countries are already talking about advanced smart meters that provide real-time data instead of near real-time data, enabling real-time data flows and data-sharing within the energy markets, with this being absolutely essential to build competitive and innovative energy markets for tomorrow. therefore, we should discuss whether smart meters should be made mandatory so that all consumers have real-time data and real-time control over their energy consumption.
in writing. – we must not ignore the wider geopolitical repercussions of our policies in the energy union. for instance, allowing the doubling of the capacity of the nord stream pipeline has a destabilising effect on ukraine, since it will enable russia to reroute all the gas currently transiting though the former. as you know, full-blown war recently returned to eastern ukraine, with indiscriminate shelling of civilians and soldiers alike. therefore, it would be extremely irresponsible to help putin by giving him another weapon to strangle ukraine. in hybrid warfare, financial destabilisation can play a very significant role. furthermore, the rerouting of the gas from the ukrainian pipeline would put our eastern member states in a more precarious position, since we currently lack sufficient interconnectors for the gas to make its way back from germany. the current political climate should push us towards decreasing our energy dependence on russia, instead of further solidifying our ties with this unreliable partner by investing in new infrastructure projects, which would become stranded assets once we truly pursue our goal of becoming energy independent.
in writing. georgia has been ready for visa-free travel with the eu for some time and it is good that the european parliament has approved it. visa-free travel facilitates people-to-people contacts and also promotes economic relations. hopefully, we can move forward with visa-free travel to ukraine soon enough.
mr president, i would like to thank mr verhofstadt for these very well calibrated proposals which, in writing, look much better than the over-cautious rhetoric about the united states of europe. the report is very timely yet, on the other hand, we would be better off if we had adopted it before the 2014 elections so that european citizens could have given us, or not given us, a mandate to accomplish those ideas. that is why i would like to propose that you do not pin your hope so much on the possible convention but, rather, keep it simple. we, the elected representatives of the people, must be able to debate, vote and adopt changes to the treaties. i would like to give all my support to today’s rapporteurs if they will go out and truly defend the prerogatives and the full duties of this european parliament. the selfish slogans à la ‘make this or that country great’ – at the cost of the other countries – could easily be defeated under the motto: ‘make this parliament great again’. thank you for making an attempt.
mr. chairman, my good colleagues! more and more ukrainians ask us, has europe forgotten ukraine? they talk about a frozen conflict, a normalization of the situation, they ask if ukraine can be a pawn in the improvement of relations between the united states and russia. the silence of the united states on this issue should be a wake-up call not only to kiev, but to virtually all european capitals. the more we have to work to overcome these concerns. as members of parliament, we have the opportunity to shape europe's attitude to what is happening in ukraine. our task is to ensure that ukraine is not forgotten. the debate here is certainly a step in the right direction, but as mr fleckenstein said, speeches alone are not enough. we must put pressure on the governments of the member states to make the ukraine issue a part of every meeting that takes place between the leaders of russia, the united states and our countries. europe must send a unified message: the ukrainian question is neither solved nor forgotten.
madam president, as i see it, the kremlin is using the uncertainty around continued us foreign commitments to europe to intensify its aggression against eastern ukraine. our resolve, unity and ability to resist such a disruptive policy is crucial to stabilise the situation. we ask russia to fulfil the minsk agreements. as my colleague, mr van baalen has stated, there is nothing new here because this does not depend only on mr putin. the kremlin is also following the current debate here. if our message is hesitant, and if we are even unable to agree on a firm resolution, it will send a signal that the sanctions are more of a problem for the eu than they are for russia. our task is the opposite. the current crisis is an additional argument not just to continue with the sanctions, but to expand them further. by the way, if we are serious about minsk, let us follow the advice of russian democrats. if we clamp down decisively on the bank accounts of putin and his proxies in western banks and freeze their dirty and bloody money, tangible results will be forthcoming. (applause)
madam president, i am sure that this so—called normandy format is coming to an end. it is not effective, and we all know that. i fully support the view that we, with the whole european union, need to raise our profile and our role in the peace process, and in the process of rebuilding eastern ukraine. we should give this part of ukraine a real plan to restore the region and show them that they can count on the european union as the best solution and best friend. to do that, we need proper information. europe is full of russian fake news about ukraine, but only yesterday we heard that euronews is planning to withdraw its correspondent in ukraine, so we will not have even that meagre information. i urge ms mogherini to look into this and to insist that we need information from ukraine and that euronews should continue to work there to give us that information.
president-in-office of the council, acting on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. many of you have said what is new or not new in this whole debate and i think what has come out clearly is the approach that the european union is taking and therefore also the support of this institution on how to deal with the challenge that we have in ukraine and in particular eastern ukraine and so it is the objective to see that the minsk agreement is implemented in its entirety. moreover, i think we should continue to do everything possible to ensure that, directly or indirectly, all citizens of ukraine benefit as soon as possible from the association agreement that their country has signed with the european union. as i said, the maltese presidency spoke on behalf of the high representative mogherini who deeply regretted that she could not be present and was indisposed to this debate. he also mentioned, in particular, the visa liberalisation process and i think, as you all know here, there is a process between the two co-legislators; the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the work of the european parliament and the council. i would like to thank this house again for actively reaffirming its interest in the issue and the ukraine dossier.
in writing. the easing of tensions in avdiivka is yet another sign that what is happening in ukraine needs to be under constant international attention. once again, civilians suffered and infrastructure was destroyed. it is good that by now we have been able to restore the water, electricity and heating supply in avdiivka. the international community must continue to advocate the establishment of a ceasefire in the conflict zone, the withdrawal of heavy weapons and it is important to continue to support the osce's activities in the region. of course, it is high time that the us took a more active stance on ukraine and on sanctions. the sanctions must not be lifted until the minsk agreements are implemented.
in writing. – we must be very clear that ukraine is under very direct attack from the russian federation. anybody who is informed about the situation understands clearly that so called ‘green men’ or ‘rebels’ have not appeared from thin air, but are under the direct control and influence of the kremlin. we can reiterate again and again in brussels that we condemn, and that we are concerned and so on, but unless we through personal connections and influence and pure will push it forward, then there will be no change. if there is no change, the situation will deteriorate until the russian threat has reached the very heart of the european union. let’s stop making political statements, and instead let’s take practical and concrete steps to preserve our security, independence and democratic values.
madam president, i would like to welcome the very constructive report by my colleague fleckenstein, because albania is making encouraging progress in eu integration. in particular, their constitutional amendments from july 2016 will open the way to important judicial reform, which of course needs to be carried out. continued cooperation and constructive dialogue between different political parties is vital and commendable and remains essential not only for albania, but as a positive example for the whole region. so albania has deserved the commission’s recommendation to open accession negotiations. albania has also been active in regional cooperation, and i am impressed by its human dimension by accepting hundreds of un—protected iranian refugees from iraq, where their lives were in imminent danger. last but not least, i would like to call on all political forces to address clearly and resolutely the claims of the recent communist regime to agree on a moral and political assessment of these horrible deeds, providing us finally with truth and justice for the victims.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. although the unemployment rate in the european union has been slowly decreasing since the second half of 2013 and some 8 million new jobs have been created to date, we cannot afford to rest on our laurels. the unemployment rate is currently 8.6 percent. this is september. however, in many member states it remains even higher. for example, in the czech republic, the unemployment rate was 3.7 percent in december, while in greece it was 23.1 percent and in spain 19.2 percent. in addition to the high unemployment rate, the relatively low employment of women is also noticeable. in 2015, it was 64.3%, which is, however, significantly below the 75% target of the europe 2020 strategy. there are also big differences between countries. for example, 42.5% of women in greece and 74% in sweden are in work. so, unfortunately, the statistics are what we call the average fever of a hospital patient. this means that the country-specific recommendations, which will be launched shortly, will also play a major role in this report. however, our work on this document was to coordinate what we call universal measures. after joint discussions between all the factions, we agreed that they are. 1.active employment policies and the need to promote socially fair labour market reforms. 2.the clear objective must be to reduce inequalities and pay gaps. while one of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million, last year this figure was reduced by only 33.5 million. in 2015, 119 million people in the 28 member states of the european union were at risk of poverty and social exclusion. 3.in the field of education, we must first of all bridge the gap between education and labour market needs. the number of 15-29 year olds not in employment or education is currently close to 15% in the european union and this group is at risk of being excluded from the labour market. the system of validation of knowledge and experience acquired through non-formal and informal learning is of great importance here. flexible education can be particularly helpful for vulnerable groups such as young people, third-country nationals and refugees. employment indicators such as labour force participation, youth unemployment and long-term unemployment should be part of the annual growth analysis. moreover, these indicators will be brought into line with existing economic indicators, allowing for a deeper analysis and assessment of the situation in the member states. 5.this report is a step towards the establishment of european social standards, which should be based on country-specific recommendations. the report emphasises the role of the european fund for strategic investments, which is essential for strengthening social, economic and territorial cohesion. at the same time, we point out that the fund's work must pay more attention to territorial coverage, as the richest countries are currently the most numerous beneficiaries. finally, i'd like to thank all the reporters from the bottom of my heart. it was a very pleasant and constructive cooperation and i hope that we will continue in the same spirit.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want, first of all, to thank my colleagues and the commission vice-president for a very fruitful discussion. we may disagree on the ways of achieving our goals but what unites us is the european project itself. looking at the european semester from the point of view of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to remind all of us that unemployment and poverty are dangerous, and not only in terms of economic development. they can also undermine european integration as a political project, and if we want to convince people that they need more europe, or even that they need the european union as such, they should be able to see the benefits of integration in their everyday life. let us make an effort. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
rapporteur, blue—card answer. – as i understand it, i only have 30 seconds, which means that i am not able to answer your question, as we really have a huge number of problems here. but, as i said, from the point of view of the committee on employment and social affairs, for which i am rapporteur, the main thing is, of course, the increasing – or possibly decreasing but still high – social inequality in the european union.
madam president, first i should say that trade commissioner cecelia malmström has done very good and serious work in preparing this agreement. the eu-canada trade agreement is a good and modern trade agreement that will help boost trade and economic activity, and it has many advantages which have all been listed many times here already, including opening markets to goods, benefiting smes and opening up their procurement market. it also allows us to promote and protect our shared values. ceta will help create jobs and economic growth which is very much needed. but this deal also has more significant value. it is the most elaborate deal with a successful oecd country, and in coming to an agreement with canada we show that this kind of agreement can be done, and this is a very important message. it is also an important deal geopolitically. the eu and canada must strengthen and hold their alliance in this changing, unstable environment. ceta is a good indication that where there is a will, there is a way.
madam president, the eu was founded 60 years ago on the principles of four freedoms. our rapporteur, mr pabriks, told us today that the eu has a choice between future openness or protective and angry closing into ourselves. also, some time ago, pope francis spoke to the european parliament of his impression of a wary and ageing europe, reminding us of a grandmother, hesitant and defensive, but now also believing in political horror stories. only opening up will bring wide-ranging success and well-being to the citizens of europe. the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) constitutes a key means of rejuvenating the eu’s dynamics because every additional billion of eu exports supports 14 000 jobs in europe. it is, in fact, a crucial test of the eu’s credibility, self-respect and reaffirmation of our founding principles of four freedoms. commissioner malmström, tack så mycket for your dedication, faith and persistence.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, books and movies are very good starters for emotional discussions about robotics, but they are not very good to be basing our decisions on. our role as decision makers is not to get emotional but to look at the facts and shape our serious and forward-looking eu policies on robots and artificial intelligence. if we think about robots in terms of star wars and terminator, we get it wrong. robots and artificial intelligence are already here in our daily lives, helping us to solve complex tasks. i said ‘helping’ because robots need to compliment humans: both need to, and can, work as a team. our role is to drive policy that makes individuals active consumers of robots rather than passive ones. we cannot, however, have active and empowered individuals if we shift all the responsibility onto robots or manufacturers if something goes wrong. this is the problem with the strict liability approach or an electronic personality for robots. last but certainly not least, we should not forget that developing autonomous robots and putting them on the market requires risk-taking investment and vision. so let us focus not only on precaution but also on innovation. introducing a tax on robots, for instance, will simply kill innovation and drive the engineers developing robots elsewhere, and we will be left using the robots instead of creating them. forward-looking and pro-innovation eu policy should exist not only in words but also in action.
blue-card question. – you referred to the industrial revolution and machines taking over the jobs of humans, but don’t you agree that actually the machines took over the really back-breaking jobs that humans did and the humans could then do something else?
madam president, i want to start mainly from the opposite position compared to the previous speaker. i think that maybe as this report is so systemic, so comprehensive in all of this area, it is showing us how many unsolved issues, new ideas and new concepts we clearly need in order to come to very specific implementation as the legislation. i am also very glad that commissioner moedas, who is responsible for research, is here because this report also shows that there is an area of research which is most vital and which is underdeveloped – the area of research dealing with technology-society interactions. we have neurosciences dealing with this interaction at a micro level, but we have very little research dealing with technology-society interaction at the macro and middle level. i insist that the commission really should do what the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is also proposing: to have special grants, money and focus in research on this horizontal, comprehensive, holistic approach uniting humanities, social sciences, technological sciences and real sciences.
mr president, in europe we are against capital punishment in principle, but let us not forget it is up to every sovereign state to decide about this. kuwait and bahrain decided to have a moratorium on executions for the past 6 years, and this is something encouraging. now they have resumed executions, of ten people, on an exceptional basis. this is very much deplorable, but my problem is that this debate is somewhat out of the context of urgency because at the same time, we know that during this year in iran ten times more people have been executed. where are our urgent motions for resolutions [about that]? and so i am afraid that, in neglecting iran and bashing kuwait and bahrain – bahrain is very good in providing religious freedom and tolerance – we are in a way introducing double standards, so the ppe group has decided to abstain from this vote.
in writing. europe must do much more and be more proactive in protecting itself and enhancing its security. the council's discussion must clearly build on the theme of defence cooperation, which has made good progress over the past year. european defence cooperation has so far been modest and relies mainly on nato. europe itself must do much more and take all the opportunities to increase its security and defence capability, including in the context of the european union. eu countries, like nato members, must aim to spend 2% of gdp on defence. the eu can also support nato infrastructure such as the creation of barracks, roads, etc., defence industry cooperation and development, and the creation of a defence force-schengen. it is clear that now is the right time to build a well-functioning european defence cooperation.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their contributions. from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in using eu diplomatic power to its full potential in support of russian citizens and of respect for human rights, international standards and human dignity in russia. no country is immune from domestic violence. in that regard, and in view of 2017 being the year of european action on ending all forms of violence against women, we will continue our efforts to promote the eradication of domestic violence and to support its victims within the eu as well as beyond our borders. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of the european parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
in writing. the estonian head of state, president kersti kaljulaid, recently said in her annual state of the republic speech: violent patterns are repeated from generation to generation, and they can only be broken by public attention, which leads to a significant shift in attitudes. it's not enough to delegate this problem to the police and social workers. it is extremely positive that president kaljulaid is moving in the right direction on domestic violence, but at the same time we must sadly admit that our great eastern neighbor is moving in the opposite direction. this attitude proves once again that russia is not a good partner for the european union, both in the energy sector and in other areas. i have said this many times in this parliament, but perhaps this approach will prove to some colleagues that the russian world of thought and values do not coincide with ours.
for the verts/ale group if you allow me, i will speak in estonian. mr. chairman of the board! i am very sorry that the gue group is voting against this resolution, because it is a very good resolution. it is the gue that could be in favour of this, because mr krasnodębski has done a very thorough job, which is taking us one step closer to a real european energy union, and the eu as an energy union may one day be much more important than the eu as a european union. i had the great privilege of working with mr krasnodębski and this experience tells me that the background of a scientist in the european parliament on energy issues is very important. not every politician becomes a scientist, but a good scientist becomes a good reporter, and that's the last sentence i'm going to say.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there was a sentence in an article in the guardian about the age of robots which said: ‘if you want a job, you must be as unlike a machine as possible: creative, critical and socially skilled.’ creativity in the age of the internet is everywhere. people write stories on their blog, they upload songs, they create short videos, and with innovation in robotics and artificial intelligence we will need more and more creative people. creativity should not only be supported by the creative europe programme, it should be part of every policy, as innovation should be. what is key to creativity, however, is diversity, and europe has diversity: diversity of languages, of cultures and of history. therefore, i believe that the creative europe programme should also nurture this diversity. however, when we look at the share of financing that each member state gets from this programme, most of the funding seems to go to the big five countries with high production capacity and, as i understand it, the same countries want an even larger share of the funding. therefore i would stress the importance of the creative europe programme being open and fair to all creators and all projects, and not just the ones who might, on paper, get the bigger audience and be the most profitable, because this is not what the programme should be about. i also believe that we should stress another point: although europe is very diverse, consumers’ wishes and behaviour are very similar everywhere. technology has brought them choice – choice to access content from anywhere, at any time and on any device. no consumer wants to wait for six months or a year to see a movie on tv, and i do not think any creator wishes to limit the amount of people who will see their work. but, by staying stuck in our current models of movie distribution, of financing based on territoriality, and by lacking creativity ourselves in this respect, we are not helping either consumers or creators – maybe only the middlemen in between. the creative europe programme should not forget its own name: ‘creative europe’. it should support works that will be made widely available and accessible to all european citizens, not only in movie theatres but also online. it should promote innovative financing and distribution models that are not based on territoriality but on eu-wide access, and it should help to create an environment for european online platforms to start up and scale up, because if the idea of our current model is the best one for european creativity, why then do so many movies not even make it into cinemas? this is wrong, as is the idea that only our current model, largely based on territorial exclusivity, is the best one, when online platforms such as netflix and amazon have started to finance their own – very diverse and high-quality – content.
mr president, the day before yesterday i was in aleppo with some colleagues to learn more about the humanitarian situation on the ground. let me share some thoughts with you. first, the humanitarian situation in aleppo is awful. about two million people, one-third of them children, have no access to clean water or medical services and they are facing environmental disaster. they are breathing high levels of concrete and rock dust. many of them badly need psychological treatment. second, according to officials, religious leaders and ordinary civilians, the level of awareness of eu aid in the regime-controlled areas is zero. third, religious leaders of all denominations whom we met in aleppo have confirmed that they are ready to be intermediaries in the distribution of eu humanitarian aid. we can trust them even if we do not trust assad. colleagues, the civil war has caused a lot of misery. europe should help civilians living in the territories under the regime’s control. we should reopen the debate on the policy of sanctions, considering the difficult humanitarian situation in syria. this is unavoidable if we really want to participate in the process of reconciliation.
in writing. the circular economy aims to avoid waste and keep materials in circulation for as long as possible. this approach promotes the eu's economy and competitiveness and helps protect the environment. this creates additional jobs and the return on investment prevents the deployment of excess new resources. the eu must therefore set new targets and update directives covering both waste and landfills. new limits for the disposal of municipal and packaging waste are introduced, which are binding on all member states, some of which are granted temporary derogations. estonia is also covered by the municipal waste exemption. it is important to know that although the commission develops common objectives to be achieved by all countries, the way in which these objectives are achieved is a matter for each country. it is therefore important to raise awareness at national level. in the future, we could get to the point where waste is not a problem, but a resource.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it happens that today we are celebrating the birthday of the estonian language, one of the smallest and oldest languages in the european union, and it would be against the estonian constitution if i did not use that language today, so please put on your headphones. austatud istungi juhataja! raportöör on õigesti keskendunud majanduskasvule, töökohtadele ja julgeolekule, sest need küsimused on kodanikele euroopa liidus kõige tähtsamad. minu jaoks ei ole aga näiteks julgeoleku ja kliimamuutuse vastaste tegevuste seos raportis piisavalt kajastatud. seda kinnitab ka euroopa kontrollikoja audit, milles on märgitud, et 20 % meie eelarve rahast peaks olema seotud planeedi maa kliima stabiliseerimisega. olen väga rõõmus, et raportööri rõhuasetus noorte programmi „interrail“ suhtes on selle tugevdamisel. sama kehtib programmi „erasmus“ kohta. väike kahtlus on, kas peame olema investeerimisfondi ja strateegilise arengufondi suhtes nii leebed, nagu raportis on sõnastud. näiteks riigikaitse alal olen ainus roheliste / euroopa vabaliidu fraktsiooni liige, kes neid algatusi toetab. hoiatan veel kord, et energeetikaprogramm prantsusmaal aix-en-provence’i lähistel, lühendatult iter, võtab palju rohkem raha, kui oleme plaaninud. oleme esitanud ka oma muudatusettepanekud, mille sõnastuse täpsuse ja delikaatsuse pärast võiksid minu arvates kõik fraktsioonid neid toetada.
madam president, we really should not be behaving like ostriches, expecting the problem to go away when we stick our heads into the sand. as commissioner king said, the vibrant system of political parties is, of course, a cornerstone of parliamentary democracy. but i do not really think that political parties are a kind of endangered species – au contraire. they are the only man-made organisations which are entitled to an endless windfall of public funds. but it should not be like that, because, as many colleagues have pointed out, it leads to abuse. instead we should put parties – almost semi-divine organisations – onto an equal footing with other types of human organisations. think of all sorts of ngos, for instance. that is why i must quote martin luther here – ‘hier stehe ich’ – and demand the creation of a totally new system in which political parties could manage themselves only on the basis of membership fees, and that should be their only income. that kind of draconian remedy would end a vicious circle in which money – public and private – plays such an incredible and unbearable role in calling the shots in politics.
mr president, different reasons have given us the possibility to undertake more defence cooperation between the european countries. we have to use this opportunity to be able to defend europe and increase its security. i welcome the report of mr gahler and mr gonzález pons with its concrete steps on how to use the possibilities given us by the lisbon treaty in the area of defence cooperation. i would like to highlight that european countries must seriously aim for the goal of spending 2% of their gdp on defence. this would give a clear signal of joint positions of the eu and nato. we need to work together with nato, complement it where possible, and not see nato as a reason for not having a stronger european defence policy. the member states that are ready to undertake more binding commitments would set up a permanent structured cooperation so that it would be possible to establish multinational forces. a very concrete thing to work on is the movement of defence forces personnel of allies inside europe which right now is troublesome, bureaucratic and time-consuming. the eu must create a system that would coordinate the fast movement of defence forces personnel and equipment when the solidarity clause is invoked.
mr president, this initiative is of fundamental importance because we are still lagging behind in our preparedness to address multiple security threats. i would make three points. firstly, two thirds of eu citizens expect enhanced eu cooperation on security and defence. now this report makes it clear that much more efficient cooperation can and should happen, making use of the existing treaties. second, a key target is a european defence union, based on permanent structured cooperation and ending hopefully in establishing european integrated forces. it is not parallel to nato, but serving as a european pillar of nato. third, the other key to enhanced security is information-sharing – that is compulsory information-sharing between national intelligence bodies, with adequate cooperation structures. finally, there is no escape from bringing national defence expenditure to the 2% level. here the us criticism is in place, and there is absolutely no time to waste.
rapporteur. – mr president, the geopolitical importance of the arctic is growing. the climate change effects and growing competition for access to the arctic natural resources and increasing economic activities have brought opportunities but also risks to the region. this also includes challenges to security. the arctic has long been an area of constructive international cooperation and it has remained a low-tension cooperative regional order in the world. we want to keep it that way. we need to keep the arctic a low-tension area. there is a need to avoid the militarisation of the arctic. the eu has a long-standing engagement in the arctic. three eu member states are full members of the arctic council and seven others are observers. considering that the eu is the world’s leading funder in the arctic, it should finally be able to become an observer as well. all of the eu arctic member states, as well as some other states, have their own national arctic strategies, which include a security dimension, but the eu does not have such a strategy. our report foresees the need for a more coherent eu internal and external policy, an arctic strategy and a concrete action plan on the eu’s engagement in the arctic taking into account all the aspects. that includes the foreign and security dimension. the geopolitical developments in the arctic region affect the security situation in northern europe and globally. cooperation in the arctic has been good between countries, but we cannot bury our heads in the sand. we need to acknowledge the increased activities of russia in the arctic, the opening of military bases and their increased military presence in the russian arctic. the report acknowledges the fact that russia is more and more active in the arctic region and that cooperation with russia in this area must be continued with the aim of keeping the arctic a low-tension area. the european union should contribute in building civilian security mechanisms as well as in enhancing crisis and disaster management capacities, search and rescue infrastructure and support the development of infrastructure in the european arctic, including infotechnology, and communications. there are three paragraphs in this report that were introduced during the committee on foreign affairs/committee on the environment, public health and food safety joint committee votes that have caused concern in the arctic member states. these paragraphs talk about the ban on the oil and gas extraction in the arctic that has an important energy security dimension for the european union. first and foremost, oil and gas extraction in the arctic is a sovereign decision of the arctic states, as manifested in the united nations convention on the law of the sea, article 77. the eu should not call for a ban on something that is a sovereign right of a state under international law. secondly, it is important for the energy security of the eu. gas accounts for about 25% of europe’s primary energy demand. norwegian gas covers more than 20% of the european consumption. more than half of the remaining resources are expected to be located north of the arctic circle. if we propose to ban the oil and gas extraction for the eu and eea arctic states, as proposed by these paragraphs, then we are deliberately putting ourselves in a more vulnerable position. what we do want is to have oil and gas extraction in the arctic that these in line with safety regulations in the strongest terms, which is also already the case as regards eu and eea arctic countries. i would also like to thank my co-rapporteur, all the shadow rapporteurs and all of my colleagues for good cooperation in preparation of this report.
madam president, the arctic area is not only a common environmental or economic programme. the arctic is more and more becoming a vast region of international competition for natural resources, transport corridors and specific interests, with increased military importance. the eu has to play a relevant and constructive role here. the minimum would be to become a full observer on the arctic council. achieving this status has been blocked by russia, which is a main beneficiary in the arctic region. the absence of the eu has had adverse effects on territorial cooperation and on a whole range of policies. the eu could also facilitate the setting up of cross-border e-governance and e-services structures for the whole region. the call for a total ban on offshore drilling in the arctic waters and on extraction of arctic oil and gas may be unbalanced and impractical, because norway has been extending oil drilling and exploring. i am especially concerned that greenland will thus be forbidden to make use of its fishing resources and oil resources. what we need is a specific policy, a strategy by the commission to defend eu interests in this area.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the commissioner. while overall we have reached, i guess, a good agreement on this report, there is still, as we all realise, one open question on oil and gas extraction that we need to vote on tomorrow. i would just like to mention that the eu has outlined energy security as one of the cornerstones of the energy union strategy and as a key political priority, and this means less dependency on non-european countries and sources and also diversifying our own energy sources here in europe. also in 2014, the european parliament itself underlined that the eu will be a main consumer of arctic natural gas. the second remark i want to make is that it should be very clear that the eu has to stick very strongly to international law whatever the developments in the arctic area. finally, i would like to conclude my statement by saying that we have worked long and hard with the co-rapporteur sirpa pietikäinen on this paper to take into account both the concrete environmental and security aspects. however, hopefully the report will give an impetus for a real eu-arctic strategy that takes into account the realities on the ground, with a sustainable, environmental and conflict-free future in mind.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur and all the people who worked on this very important report. i would also like to thank the commissioner, who gave a very concise overview of the technological conditions. without those, we cannot have any kind of new developments in democracy. i am also glad that we are now speaking, not only about the digital single market, but also about digital europe, digital society and digital democracy. coming from estonia, which has already been mentioned as a laboratory of e-democracy, i have to say that our experience shows not only how far we are already capable of going, but also how technology itself does not really give us better democracy when we do not complement that with a proper education. it is not only digital skills in the narrow sense: what i really want to stress is that we need to think about what it will mean to have civic education, not only for young people and children, but also for older people so that they will not only be capable of using technological devices, but will be capable of using all the information which is available in this digital world. for example, our experience with digital voting or e—elections shows that new quality comes only when parties provide new digital content. instead of a kind of commercial approach to elections, there should be an information- and knowledge—based approach, so that voters not only vote digitally but also have basic information and analytical information. however, to do that they also need analytical skills. young people are really no longer interested in traditional forms of democracy. they are interested in democracy, but in the e-environment. they can also use totally different methods, so i suppose that we have to think much more about education, not only digital, but education in general in the digital world.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first let me say that i largely agree with the rapporteur and commissioner ansip that remote internet voting systems can widen citizens’ inclusion and facilitate democratic participation, especially when people are geographically and socially marginalised. estonia introduced online voting as early as the 2005 election, and my country is often cited as a positive example, as we have just heard now, and also in this report. indeed, these days estonia is the only eu country where you can choose to vote online rather than go to a traditional polling station to vote on paper. online voting is available during the advance voting period. in the 2014 european elections, every third estonian voter used this opportunity. it should be stressed that in estonia there is no unanimous support for i-voting. international it experts have presented proof to the public that our most advanced and internationally praised estonian system is vulnerable to service side and client side attacks. we are improving this at the moment. today, e-democracy offers us plenty of opportunities and we cannot imagine contemporary life without it. regretfully, we also cannot imagine our lives without cyber—attacks and internet fraud. democracy is a keystone of european identity and european values. the results of electoral procedures cannot be suspect, unclear or questionable. in several european countries, e-vote and i-vote are still not in use because of security considerations. why? so far we do not have all the necessary data to use technical solutions to organise i-vote in a safe and reliable manner. we first need to solve all technical and security problems, and only then will we call on member states to implement i-vote in practice.
author. – madam president, we are here today to express the voice of all 28 nations in europe in support of ukrainian political prisoners, and to demonstrate our solidarity with the crimean tatars. let me recognise, in this connection, the ngo open dialog, whose project ‘letmypeoplego’ is doing the most valuable work in providing information about political prisoners and defending them. our resolution, which is to be adopted soon, is strong and clear, and voices an unprecedented unity amongst practically all political groups. however, it all comes down to concrete actions by the eu governments. i think it is high time to give up on false illusions that one could have a deal with aggressors. we need not to just tiptoe on sanctions, but strike with all force on the secret bank accounts of those responsible, and deny them entry into the eu. ukrainian friends, you should know that the representatives of the 28 european nations will never be silent – and we will never abandon you – until all prisoners are free and the occupation of your country is ended. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, dear colleagues and ukrainian friends, today we are gathering here at the time when the sad anniversary of the third year of occupation of crimea falls. at the same time, russian officials and russian media are cynically celebrating the occupation of crimea as a national victory. they even plan to shift the elections in russia to celebrate the occupation of crimea. it is very important we show that all europeans recognise that this is annexation, that it is illegal and that, on 16 december last year, the united nations general assembly officially condemned the occupation and called for it not to be recognised. for those who are not firm in support of this, we have to remind them that it is not the first time in history. from the history of the baltic countries we know how important this politics of non-recognition is, and how important international support is for occupied countries. i call on us to be firm to support the organisations who are fighting for human rights ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first and foremost, russia must stop the aggression in ukraine. it must live up to the minsk agreements and stop the annexation of crimea. however, given the reality that russia is the occupying power in crimea, it has the responsibility to protect the people in crimea. however, they are doing the opposite. they prosecute innocent people for political reasons, then they prosecute people protecting those innocent people, such as, for example, their lawyers. the human rights situation has deteriorated significantly, and this needs to stop. russia claimed that the people in crimea wanted to be freed from ukraine and that they wanted to join with russia. if russian occupation in crimea is a blessing to the people there, then why do you need to prosecute and harass the tatars, ukrainians and even russians themselves there? the harassment, prosecutions and human rights violations must stop, and all those responsible must be brought to justice.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this resolution. as has been underlined, on saturday we will mark the third anniversary of the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia. the eu is following with great concern the deterioration of the human rights situation on the peninsula. let us be clear: arrests and arbitrary detentions, ill-treatment, abusive use of anti-extremism legislation and violations of due process represent grave human rights violations. these target especially the crimean tatars and people who reject the illegal annexation. the eu calls for a thorough investigation of these cases and the bringing to justice of those responsible. increasingly frequent attacks on the vital work conducted by human rights defenders, such as human rights lawyers emil kurbedinov and nikolay polozov, represent worrying developments. forced psychiatric examinations of the deputy chairman of the mejlis, ilmi umerov, emir hussein kuku, eider saledinov and rustam ismailov, are clear violations of international human rights standards. the eu continues to call for full, free and unhindered access of international human rights mechanisms to the peninsula. the eu stands ready to work with the un and other international organisations to implement resolution 71/205 on the situation of human rights in crimea and sevastopol, adopted by the general assembly last december. the eu follows the situation closely and has repeatedly urged russia to release all illegally held ukrainian citizens, whether held in russia or in the illegally annexed crimean peninsula. representatives from eu delegations and member states’ embassies in moscow have been present in court hearings and are in contact with the lawyers. the eu also raises individual cases – such as those of oleg senstov, olexander kolchenko, stanislav klich and mykola karpyuk – in bilateral meetings with russian representatives, as well as in public statements, including in international fora such as the council of europe and the osce. human rights must be respected fully in the illegally annexed crimean peninsula. the right to legal counsel and access to consular officers needs to be fully respected. access to healthcare needs to be ensured. in this regard we also follow with concern the case of journalist mykola semena. finally, let me restate that the european union remains committed to implement fully its policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of crimea and sevastopol. we fully support the sovereignty, the independence and the territorial integrity of ukraine.
in writing. – as an mep from estonia, i personally know what soviet or russian occupation means and feels like. believe me, it is not fun at all. after 50 years of occupation, estonia managed to regain independence and, through hard work, fortunately managed to join the european union and nato in 2004. unfortunately, ukraine did not share the same fate. ukraine was duped, with the budapest memorandum in 1994, by a promise that if it got rid of its nuclear arsenal, the russian federation would honour its sovereignty. the uk and the usa promised to safeguard this pact. in 2017, ukraine is in a state of war with russia, the uk and the usa did not safeguard the pact, the crimean peninsula is occupied, russia has arrested a vast number of ukrainian political prisoners, russia is restricting access to crimea for the osce, the un and the council of europe, and the crimean tatars are being oppressed. we in europe need to understand that russia will stop only when it is stopped. europe is strong, europe is capable and europe has the power to stop any repetition of stalinist or nazi german purges.
member of the commission. – mr president, i really appreciate this very fruitful exchange of ideas and let me first thank you for the support, the broad support, you have shown for the general objectives of the european solidarity corps. if we do it well the european solidarity corps can contribute to both european economic growth and the stability of european societies, because the volunteering part of the european solidarity corps can give the experience of living in a community for young people and working for the public good at the same time. and i think it is a very important issue from the point of view of stability of society, of the future society. on the other hand the occupational side, the occupation pillar, can contribute to the employability of young people, the employability which is probably the most important virtue, the most important skill, for young people to get a proper job on the labour market in the future. so we really take it seriously, and that is why i appreciate all of your concerns, all of your feedback and all of your opinions because we will put it into the construction of the european solidarity corps. but beyond the broad consensus let me address some of your concerns as well. first the funding, because definitely this is the most sensitive issue of the project. during this phase of implementation the european voluntary service funding was increased from eur 62 million to eur 89 million, out of which we estimate that eur 58 million will be used for activities which fall within the scope of the european solidarity corps. the commission continues funding erasmus+ activities as foreseen in its legal base and financial programming, so no change in that. in other words, funding for volunteering has increased while there are no negative effects on erasmus+ activities. regarding the second phase covering the period 2018-2020 discussions on the appropriate funding for the new legislative proposal are still ongoing. let me thank ms žitňanská for her concerns on the accessibility of the portal. we are working on a more accessible format of the portal, because it is our personal mission as well to make it accessible for handicapped and fortunate people as well. i agree with ms grapini’s remarks. yes, i think the european solidarity corps is really an investment, an investment in the future, and that is why we would like to do it very well. actually it is happening, the first action of deployment happened last week. so the european solidarity corps is already in operation. however, we know that we have to improve in the future to make it more efficient. the second sensitive issue is the difference between the european solidarity corps and the european voluntary service. the difference at the moment is mostly procedural. the european solidarity corps is needs-driven and builds on the synergies of the programmes involved. most importantly it will offer new opportunities that do not yet exist under the current programmes. it offers a single, easily accessible entry point through the european solidarity corps portal and aims at the widest possible outreach to participating organisations and the young people involved. it will also develop an enhanced training, available before a placement, and recognition of learning outcomes after placement. basically the european solidarity corps will not compete with national volunteering schemes. the european solidarity corps will enhance what is already on offer at national level, adding opportunities that were not available before. in this sense it complements national schemes and creates new synergies with them. and, last but not least, the application procedure will be easier in the european solidarity corps portal and that is why it will be more accessible for young people, hopefully for handicapped people as well. so thank you once again for your feedback, for your support and for your opinions and i am really looking forward to working with you in the future as well on this project.
in writing. – the european solidarity corps (esc) is a welcome and timely initiative. it is not only designed to complement and build synergies with other youth engagement and employment programmes. first of all, we have to catch the special nature of this programme as important promoter of european spirit, solidarity and citizenship. the future legal eu framework should prevent esc becoming a mere substitute to creating jobs, or a sort of auxiliary to the european voluntary service. esc should perform the role of a european civic service, engaged in public, private and ngo sector. before launching the esc on the large scale, the commission has to come forward with a clear legal basis, also taking into account the views of youth organisations, networks and voluntary organisations. we have to ensure that young people who sign up to esc will know about their rights and obligations, that their certificates would be globally recognised across europe. the esc’s goal should be to reach out, as much is possible, to all young people, targeting especially vulnerable young people. in parallel, we must do our utmost to prevent both unnecessary bureaucracy as well as obstacles presented by national boundaries. i encourage the commission to come forward with solid legislative proposal, including a solution for sustainable funding.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for the invitation to address parliament. i have noticed also that some members would have liked the presidency to be here during the preceding debate but we had no invitation. i would have liked to join your members in that particular debate. with regard to this file, this file has kept the council and parliament busy since the start of september and this hard work is now coming to fruition. before going into the substance i want to make a point on the process. the result we have on the table today could not have been achieved without the help of the european parliament, particularly mr arthuis as chair of the committee on budgets, but also ms thomas and mr olbrycht as co-rapporteurs have worked very constructively with the council. they conveyed the messages coming from the european parliament at all stages to feed into the discussion of the council as well. we saw that many of the concerns expressed by this chamber were shared also by the delegations. i can also say, in another way, that you helped us to be more ambitious with this review and making it also a proper revision of the eu budget that goes beyond words and also turns into action. now a point on the substance of the deal that you all have in front of you. this is the result of the dialogue and cooperation between the european parliament and the council, and it is a package of new rules and new amounts which found unanimous support within the council on 7 march. i highlighted the word ‘package’ because of course you know what it means having unanimity in the council, and we had to make every element count. the balance of the deal is delicate and also cannot be picked apart. now we have created room for manoeuvre allowing additional funding to respond to the new priorities we all share: migration and security but also growth and youth. they will benefit from more than eur 5 billion in extra funding over the next four years. second, our budget will be more agile and also more flexible to respond to future crises. this will also allow us to meet unforeseen needs and move swiftly in their regards. we will increase the capacities of the flexibility instrument and the emergency aid reserve by a total of almost eur 700 million over the next four years, and in addition the flexibility instrument will be increased further by unused amounts from the solidarity fund and globalisation adjustment fund. the global margin for commitments will be extended in both time and scope whilst the caps of the global margin for payments will also be increased. we all want to move ahead with this deal because we are convinced that it will also allow us to strengthen our tools and better respond to the priorities that have emerged in the last two years. let me use this occasion, mr president, to underline the work achieved also by our slovak friends in the autumn. we started last september with heavy groundwork, we planted seeds we hoped would grow. they needed a little time but they are now about to bloom. i use this metaphor also to convey a simple message that the time is ripe to secure the agreement on the revision of the mff regulation and its accompanying package. but this flower is also fragile and the season is short. i hope that we will have a green light from this chamber and conclude this file without any further delays. i look forward to commissioner oettinger’s delivery and those of your members in the debate.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are discussing tonight a major package to improve our common european budgetary policy. the european union must combine two objectives, the objective of planning security on the one hand and the principle of flexibility and efficiency on the other, even more than at national level. planning security: whether it is the countryside or our farmers, whether it is structural programmes, regional programmes, social programmes, whether it is connecting europe and therefore the construction of expensive infrastructure or our research policy, if we could commit ourselves for a year only, these medium-term, important and large programmes and projects would be difficult to implement, and the planning security that our partners - the people, the economy, the farmers, the regions, the member states - need would not be available. this is why a multiannual in this case a seven-year budgetary framework makes sense. conversely, when the commission proposed the mff in june 2011 and when it was finally discussed and decided upon in the second half of 2013 in the parliament and the council, who could have foreseen that the political, economic and social developments of 2016/2017/2018 would bring new tasks, priorities and problems? and that is why: planning certainty on the one hand and flexibility for rapid action on the other. if this package, which was indeed moderated very aggressively by your predecessors - the slovak presidency - and by you, and which was then released by our italian government, and which was discussed constructively in the committee on budgets, is adopted by parliament and the council at the end of april, it would be a great success for the ability of european politics to act and a special success for the european parliament. it was you, the members, who proposed the mid-term review and mid-term update of the mff package at the time. i frankly admit - i was not co-responsible for the budget at the time - that i did not think that this demand of parliament - your demand - could now become a reality. the proposal on the table, which was put to you by the council unanimously, is not 100% in line with the commission's proposal, but it is a significant step in the right direction. and if it is decided, it will be a success for you, the members of parliament. firstly, that we can effectively support with more money important priorities of our people and parliament for the second half of the year because the seven-year budgetary framework has come to an end on 30 june this year the fight against youth unemployment, the issue of security within europe, the financing of migration efforts, including border protection and border control, or increased development aid in neighbouring countries, where reasons for flight can be reduced, and the revival of horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus, connecting europe, or the extension and continuation of our european fund for strategic investments all demands supported by a broad majority here in parliament, by the commission and ultimately in agreement with the member states, are also affected and benefit from this. but there's more to it than that. with this package, the commission's 2018 budget proposal can be much more responsive to the needs of the present, the 2019 budget much more responsive to the needs of the next two years and the 2020 budget much more responsive to the needs of the next two years. we are therefore creating a much better capacity for action for the next three financial years. the commission is currently preparing the next multiannual financial framework. we are in the process of initial considerations for the period beyond 2020 and will present to you in due course - this year or next year - our five- or seven-year budget proposal for the next decade. i can tell you that if this package is adopted, we will have a better capacity for action, more certainty and more flexibility for the next parliament, the next commission and the council in the next decade. that is why we are pleased about this progress. i thank the president. i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on budgets. we are campaigning for the adoption of this package out of conviction and we want to announce that we will be working with our maltese friends to bring the omnibus regulation forward in the weeks to come. i'm very impressed with your offensive moderation here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
for the verts/ale group whether the glass is half empty or half full depends, of course, on your perspective. optimist or pessimist, nationalist or social democrat, portuguese, greek or finnish perspective is different. i would say that this glass is half empty, because nine months ago we demanded and adopted in this very house decisions which would have given us the opportunity not only to strengthen the european union's policies in words but also in terms of finances. i liked commissioner oettinger's speech because he emphasised the word 'flexibility' over and over again, but the paradox is that with seven-year planning and annual planning, flexibility gets confused. and now we're at this compromise, which to the green group seems like a nigel, a gift. the glass is half empty because our proposals have not been sufficiently taken into account. and that's why we think we should withdraw our support for this initiative. but i would like to conclude by saying that the council - the european governments - did not want to give us half a glass, and that is why we should congratulate the governments that we have reached half a glass. and the next time we do an mff for a new financial perspective, i would suggest to the commission and the council that they give us a glass of either half as much, but a better drink.
madam president, first of all i have to say that i very much agree with what tanja fajon and helga trüpel said. i wanted to share with you some concerns regarding our fight against propaganda and fake news. like commissioner ansip, i was raised in the soviet union, where so—called anti—soviet propaganda was perceived as one of the major reasons why the soviet people were not happy about the regime. the communist party believed that people were misinformed and manipulated by foreign actors, and that is why the people looked up to the west. i am sure that the other side’s propaganda has poor chances if it is not based on some real facts, or if it addresses issues that are properly touched upon by the mainstream media. as for fake news, it cannot attract public attention if it does not seem to be reliable or does not reflect the wishful thinking of the audience. for instance, any fake news about certain countries like north korea, may be accepted by the public because the regime there is so nasty. regrettably, mistakes, misinterpretation of data and manipulative delivery of news – i mean all these games with titles, subtitles, selection of pictures, experts and the use of specific terminology – are a big challenge for us. we need critical thinking and we definitely need to have high—quality journalism back in europe.
in writing. – although the soviet union collapsed at the beginning of the 1990s, the russian federation acclaimed itself as its legal successor, and the former soviet intelligence mechanism known as the kgb went through a metamorphosis and took control of the state with vladimir putin coming to power in 2000. the putin regime understood that the same tricks used by the kgb during the cold war could be used in a modern context. the combination of hate speech, populism and fake news, with the aid of social media, was a perfect way to gain political leverage over the eu, nato, and the western world. it is time for us, collectively, to take back the steering wheel. the truth will always prevail.
mr. chairman of the board! i am very pleased that the negotiations are starting to conclude and that ukraine is finally getting the long-awaited visa-free regime. by voting in favour of visa liberalisation tomorrow, we are in fact recognising the reforms ukraine has made so far, in particular judicial and administrative reform. the e-platform for public procurement has also been launched and the fight against corruption is being pursued. these developments are not only due to public officials, but also to a very large extent to civil society. we are often told that one of the things that works better in ukraine than anywhere else is civil society it is the people's own activism and willingness that makes officials act. that is why i am saddened by the confusion that has arisen with e-declarations and the recent decision in ukraine to require non-profit organisations and civil society organisations to declare all their assets under the same rules. i hope that the ukrainian government will find a solution and these companies will be exempted from this obligation.
in writing. the decision on visa liberalisation is a major step towards closer eu-ukraine relations. we have been waiting for this for a long time, as ukraine is an active member of the eu's eastern partnership programme and the visa-free regime between the eu and ukraine also strengthens relations between people and civil societies. the people of ukraine also need clear moral support in the face of the ongoing military activity in eastern ukraine, and the decision to grant visa-free travel is, in addition to its political and practical impact, a clear expression of the eu's moral support. in addition, it should not be forgotten that ukraine introduced unilateral visa-free travel for eu citizens years ago.
mr president, twenty years of chavez and maduro’s bolivarian socialism has led a potentially rich country to the implosion of both democracy and economy. this must be the end phase of leftist populism, which as a rule results in economic impotence, cynical disregard of citizens and authoritarian exercise of power. the latest attack on the independence of the parliament by a judiciary which has lost independence could well become the last straw. since maduro took power, almost 7 000 citizens have been detained; there are now 114 political prisoners. the european commission’s reaction to the suppression of the last vestiges of democracy must be more forceful and determined. today we must send a very clear signal that the european parliament stands unconditionally together with venezuelan citizens, for their dignity and rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, i said at the beginning that i very much appreciate the opportunity to take part in the discussion here today, to answer your questions and to hear your views because i think the period between the moment when we started the full functioning of privacy shield and the first annual report, which will come out as late as september, is very important. i am grateful for hearing your views, including the critical voices, because we take all of them very seriously and share many of them. that is why – as i also said at the beginning – we are closely monitoring the situation in the united states. it is not true that we only say what should be done. i am informing you about the things we are doing. this is something i want to emphasise very strongly. i am aware of the fact – as mr moraes, mr voss and some others clearly said – that at the moment we still do not have a full assessment of the functioning of privacy shield, because this is just the beginning. it is also for this reason that i am glad about the idea which we discussed today with the chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, namely that i could come in the first half of this year to give full information about how we see and assess the functioning of privacy shield. this is my commitment which i would like to repeat here in the plenary. when i say that the first annual review will be the moment of truth, i mean it very seriously. this must not be just another report. i want to give an honest and true reflection of the situation. that is why i want to use all possible channels to have this fully-fledged review which will reflect how privacy shield protects the privacy of europeans and whether it fully protects according our requirement, the requirement of european law, and the requirement of the court ruling. that is why i want to take all the inputs from the state administration, from the article 29 working party on the european side and the federal trade commission on the american side. i want to take on board all the critical comments from the ngos. i spoke to ngos on both the european and american sides. they are very critical and share some of the concerns which you voiced here today. i want to a create a precise and detailed questionnaire which will be sent to the certified companies – the companies which have been certified under privacy shield – so that we receive information from them about the number of requests from the intelligence services and security bodies on the american side, and much other detailed information. i also want to use the media reports about the atmosphere, tendencies and trends in the united states to capture something which i call a real feel for how to look at the situation in the united states. we must focus on three main things: the legal environment in the united states; the capacities which the united states partners invest in the full functioning of privacy shield; the way privacy shield is used and respected by the certified companies; and the way privacy shield is used by the citizens themselves, because, as you know, an important part of the privacy shield mechanism is offering new ways of redress for eu citizens. these are the things which we are going to fully focus and reflect on through the first annual review. mrs in 't veld asked for a specific answers to some questions. i will try to answer them now but, as i said, we are ready to give you more detailed responses whenever you ask. on the ombudsperson, the privacy and civil liberties oversight board (pclob) and the federal trade commission, what i said before is relevant, namely that we are focusing on the united states institutions to be fully equipped as regards the capacities and the responsible leadership to keep privacy shield running. we shared our concerns in washington about the fact that we do not see any persons nominated or appointed to these positions. we now have to face the reality that the new american administration still has to appoint about 5 000 people to senior positions in the state administration, out of which 1 000 must also be also endorsed and authorised by the senate. the ombudsperson, for instance, is one of them so we will now have to negotiate with and monitor the work of the acting ombudsperson. my colleague has spoken to this person, so we are in contact and they understand how important this is for us. as for the ombudsperson, i will rely for the review on the information from the ombudsperson’s office because there should not only be information about the complaints he or she received, but also information about how many requests were sent from the intelligence services to the companies. i will push hard to get such information because we also want the ombudsperson to act as the relevant source of trustworthy information for us. on pclob the situation is similar. we urge the american side to have the full capacity of the federal trade commission. i spoke to its acting chair, and we made it very clear that we are waiting for the official new representation. on ppd-28, we have been assured that no changes are foreseen, but we will of course keep monitoring this. we also have strong allies in the congress and among the experts who are monitoring the situation on this piece of legislation, which i made absolutely clear to our american partners is the main pillar, as it is for the american legislation, for keeping privacy shield running. this is what we need to see in place and fully functioning. regarding section 702 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act (fisa), still no information can be received on whether there will be amendments or whether it will continue in the same way as it is in force now. we have to follow all the information we receive in the months to come, but i am rather sceptical about whether before the review we will have anything more concrete about whether there will be any changes. i made it very clear that, if there are changes to the detriment of the situation for the protection of europeans’ private data, we will have to act because this is an absolutely crucial piece of legislation for privacy shield. the situation on the executive order is different, according to our legal analysis, because the protections of privacy shield are not based on the us privacy act. therefore the executive order which you mentioned has no impact on this. this is the executive order on enhancing public safety. in section 14 this concerns protections under the us privacy act of 1974. the privacy act only applies to us citizens and permanent residents. the obama administration had instructed federal agencies to use their discretion also to apply these protections to others in the context of migration databases and this policy has now has been reversed. but let us be clear: as i indicated, the privacy act never granted any rights to europeans. that is why we had to negotiate new arrangements, notably the umbrella agreement and the accompanying judicial redress act, to ensure the necessary protection for europeans and these remain unaffected by the executive order. this has also been confirmed in writing by the united states. let me conclude by saying that for us the main message to take to washington was that we can see that security is a very high priority in the united states. i made it absolutely clear that for us the protection of europeans’ private data is a very high priority and a fundamental right which must also be protected in the transfer of data to the united states. i think that this was well understood by all our key american partners. i would say that the protection of private data must remain great, not be made great again. this was our message to our american partners.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to discuss with you the commission’s annual report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. on 9 march 2017, the european council discussed the situation in the western balkans. it stressed the eu’s commitment to the region and reaffirmed its unequivocal support for the european perspective of the western balkans. president tusk visited the former yugoslav republic of macedonia earlier this week and confirmed this commitment. on behalf of the presidency i wish to reiterate our commitment to advancing the enlargement process in full respect of the basic principles of conditionality and on merit. the early parliamentary elections finally took place on 11 december 2016, after having been postponed twice. we take good note that the osce considers that the elections were competitive, but that they took place in an environment characterised by widespread public mistrust in the institutions and the political establishment. unfortunately, the government has not been formed to date, and we are concerned at the current political impasse. we look forward to the formation of the new government without further delay in line with democratic principles and the constitution. in skopje on monday, president tusk called for statesmanship and unity in order to find a way out of the current deadlock. we also remain worried about the continuation of the political crisis and the partial implementation of the pržino agreement. we share your view that political will is necessary to ensure its full, tangible and sustainable implementation. the country continues to suffer from a very divisive political environment, polarisation and the lack of a culture of compromise, with backsliding in important areas such as the functioning of the judiciary, which should be allowed to work independently. let me also reiterate the importance of a thorough and independent investigation, without hindrance, of the allegations of wrongdoing brought to the fore by the wiretaps and the related failures of oversight. in this respect, i would like to recall the importance of the mandate and the work of both the special prosecutor and the parliamentary committee of inquiry to look respectively into legal and also political responsibility. it is also important to restore trust in the national institutions. we also back your call on all parties, including those forming the future government, to take ownership and to honour the undertaking to implement the urgent reform priorities, and also to address systematic rule of law issues, including in relation to breaches of fundamental rights, judicial independence, media freedom, elections, corruption, politicisation of state institutions, state or party blurring, and failures of oversight. we also welcome the commission’s intention to continue the close monitoring in order to assess systematic failures in the areas of justice, corruption, fundamental rights and human affairs, as reflected also in the urgent reform priorities. we expect the new government to urgently, as a first priority, address overdue reforms, including the one i just referred to – the urgent reform priorities – for the benefit of the country and its citizens, and also in order to return the country to its european path. the council also acknowledges and encourages the constructive role played by civil society in supporting and improving democratic processes. i would also like to stress the importance of good inter-ethnic relations. the review of the ohrid framework agreement needs to be completed by the new government as soon as possible in an inclusive and transparent manner, and its recommendations implemented. let me finally underline that maintaining of good neighbourly relations, including a negotiated and mutually accepted solution to the name issue, under the auspices of the united nations remains essential. we all agree that there is a need to bring the longstanding discussions on the name issue to a definitive conclusion without delay. let me welcome the fact that the confidence-building measures have started to produce tangible results. actions and statements which negatively impact on good neighbourly relations should also be avoided, and we note the continued high level and expert contacts with bulgaria aimed at strengthening good neighbourly relations. we look forward to their timely translation into concrete results. we also welcome the fact that the commission is prepared to extend these recommendations to open accession negotiations, conditional on progress with the implementation of the pržino agreement, and substantial progress in the implementation of the urgent reform priorities. the presidency is ready to revert, when appropriate, to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, including on the basis of an update from the commission once sufficient progress has been made on these issues and in line with the previous council conclusions and established conditionality. the political leaders now have the responsibility to take the necessary steps and put their country back on the euro-atlantic path. the european union stands ready to support them in these endeavours.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, ivo vajgl, for the report which is before you today for discussion. we find it balanced and in line with the main findings of our 2016 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. as you all know, the political situation in the country is of very serious concern. the commission, therefore, greatly appreciates the work of this house, and in particular the efforts of honourable members, ivo vajgl, mr fleckenstein and mr kukan, and, before that, richard howitt. in very close coordination with commissioner hahn, they send common messages to the political leaders during their recent visit to skopje. president tusk was also in the country on monday. more than ever, we need to continue speaking with one voice. the early parliamentary elections last december were a key part of the political agreement which the country’s leaders signed in 2015. but they were only a start. we are all deeply concerned about the latest developments and the continued refusal of president ivanov to give a mandate to a coalition which is clearly supported by the majority in the assembly. this risks undermining the stability of the country and its credibility. we are also gravely concerned about the emergence of inter-ethnic inflammatory rhetoric by some actors. such rhetoric means playing with fire. it could have broader regional implications and must, therefore, stop immediately. i therefore strongly encourage all political leaders in the country, including the president, to respect the results of the elections and the clear parliamentary majority. we expect the president to let democracy proceed and a new government to be formed. i know that, especially, this house feels strongly about the central role of national parliaments, and we expect all political leaders to stop fuelling inter-ethnic tensions. the rapid formation of the new government will, however, not to be sufficient in itself to return to business as usual. we will continue to insist on the implementation of all parts of the 2015 pržino agreement, including key reforms on the rule of law. we need to see a clear and firm political will to tackle these issues. substantial progress is not only needed in the implementation of the so-called urgent reform priorities, which address the serious rule of law issues in the country. this also means that the special prosecutor’s office should be given time and resources to complete its work. let me at this point also emphasise the crucial importance of empowered civil society and good neighbourly relations. we are concerned about the criticism and attacks faced by civil society organisations. an empowered civil society is a crucial component of any democratic system, and should be recognised and treated as such by state institutions and politicians. good neighbourly relations are also essential for the country. resolving bilateral issues with the neighbours is crucial and finding a solution to the main issue remains a priority. we should all come together to support this goal. last but not least, the country was also at the front line of an unprecedented migration crisis in 2015 and 2016. it has received very considerable support from the eu and from individual member states. the commission remains committed to continue helping with this challenge, despite the situation being much calmer now. let me, however, also say that our good cooperation on migration issues does not mean at all that we will close an eye to the aforementioned democratic and rule of law issues. that would be extremely short-sighted, and i know this is not how this house sees enlargement. in short, the european council has just reaffirmed the accession perspective of the entire western balkans region. it is now up to the countries in the region to use this momentum, with our help. this is a long, complex process so there is no time to waste. this is particularly true for this country. i now look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i very much appreciate the constructive approach by mr vajgl. we are still optimistic about this very complicated programme and on behalf of the epp group i can say that i fully support his stand. i think the key word was provided by president tusk a few days ago when he said that macedonia can count on eu support once the domestic political crisis is solved, based on democratic principles, decency and common sense. i think we can interpret this as meaning that the eu wants macedonia to move towards the eu and nato membership. the internal situation remains extremely complicated but we must understand that it is our shared worry and shared responsibility. the eu has a responsibility, especially now, to play a stronger role in the region or, as we know, there will be other powers to fill the void. the external influences have already fuelled internal divisions in macedonia. if we are hesitant or slow to bring western balkan countries closer to the eu others will not hesitate to drift them away from us. the major problem remains national reconciliation, which means serious efforts to develop inclusiveness and mutual trust. to advance this, the eu too has to offer a credible european perspective to macedonia.
author. – madam president, it seems to be another day on which we compete in this plenary chamber on who articulates better phrases on russian human rights, and as we hear there will be others who try to convince the house that the urgency must be adjourned. for me it is an oxymoron, a contradiction in terms. if something is urgent we cannot adjourn it. it is about time to stop believing in delusions such as that russia is a democracy. it has never been one, with the exception of six months exactly 100 years ago, after the february revolution. after that the bolsheviks took over, and under their enlightened leadership 50 million people were killed. mr putin’s educational background is bolshevist, even worse he was a kgb officer, and it is pointless to believe or hope that he has even the slightest desire to develop democracy in his country. let me cite you one example to show that the bolshevist manners have survived in this country, unfortunately. when i was 16 there was an anti-soviet demonstration in tallinn which was obviously declared illegal by the soviets, and their militia was commanded to attack us. we were beaten up quite severely, but we survived, thanks to help from western countries, the european union, the american government, etc. and later they sent commissars to school to explain that the youth had protested because they were promised us dollars. mr peshkov explained it 40 years later in the same way. shame!
author. – mr president, freedom of assembly is a right, not a privilege, and this must be our message to the russian authorities who have recently arrested more than 2 000 anti-corruption demonstrators through massive police operations, among them presidential candidate alexei navalny. but these are not occasional cases of state violence and injustice. we must understand the deepness of desperation that brought these tens of thousands to challenge the brutal force of the state apparatus. russia has the largest gap between the richest and the poorest: 110 individuals around mr putin control 35% of state riches. we demand the immediate release of alexei navalny and other demonstrators, and postponing today’s vote would be a betrayal of these courageous citizens. our call is to the commission and member states to take systematic concentrated action against russian money laundering and illegal assets inside the eu. it is also high time for the council to adopt the magnitsky sanctions, following the european parliament’s resolutions to establish a common eu list of russian officials who are responsible for the deaths and attacks against russian whistle-blowers, but also of those who have illegally detained and sentenced human rights activists like mr navalny.
blue-card question. – mr becker, i would be very much interested if you could explain what the difference is between left-wing maternity and right-wing maternity. i have to say that in estonia, for example, we have a government where we work together, social democrats and christian democrats, and together we have developed a maternity package which includes 18 months fully-paid maternity or paternity, with no left-wing or right-wing. both wings are needed in order to fly!
in writing. – when looking at the situation in turkey, syria and kurdistan and the surrounding region, we can see that there are no simple answers. one can be quite sure though, that bombardment of kurdistan by the turkish forces, will not benefit anyone in the region. the nato member, turkey, should support an independent kurdistan, as the co-operation between the turks and kurds, would be a viable option to de-escalate the situation in syria and the activities of daesh. at the moment we face a situation where two nato members could militarily clash with each other. as the us supports the syrian kurdish people’s protection units (ypg), and turkey threatens to keep bombing them, then we obviously have a big problem that has to be urgently dealt with. independent kurdistan could serve the global community of states as a great stabilizer and factor for peace in the broader middle east region.
cultural heritage is an important part of the history and identity of europe and its citizens. the designation of 2018 as european year of cultural heritage is necessary to enhance the contribution of cultural heritage to our economy and society and to draw attention to the need to protect the world's cultural assets. on the one hand, cultural treasures give us a better understanding of the past. 2018 marks many important events for us, including the centenary of the end of the first world war and the independence of several eu member states, including estonia. when we think about cultural heritage, we need to look not only to the past but also to the future: how to protect and preserve cultural assets, what are the opportunities to increase the contribution of cultural heritage to our economy and society, etc. all of this will be given greater attention in 2018. looking beyond europe, it is worrying that many of the world's cultural assets are now under threat and are being deliberately destroyed in conflict zones. culture must be an integral part of the eu's external policy and the eu, in cooperation with the council of europe and unesco, has an important role to play in safeguarding the world's cultural heritage.
mr president, to answer numerous calls to the governments of member states to create more gender equality in european institutions, out of all 28 democratic states the one we did not suspect, hungary and mr orbán, finally made a move. ms gáll-pelcz is nominated, and she is definitely the best candidate we can get from fidesz. hence, i would like to advise the members of parliament to be cautiously supportive and give her the benefit of the doubt. she will prove it right with her future work in luxembourg. however, there is another side of the coin, which means that madame gáll—pelcz leaves to luxembourg and creates a vacancy in the bureau of our parliament. this vacation is not predestined to be filled by a member from fidesz, nor from hungary, and not even from the epp group. by acclamation. au contraire, article 20 of the rules of procedure stipulates clearly that we must have elections, not a cosy backroom deal. but if we are very much in love with our habitual practices of power sharing, my legal advice will be just a point: by acclamation, the member who took part in our january elections and with the support of one—third of his parliament is first in line. only modesty prevents me from calling his name.
in writing. – connectivity, innovation, trust and skills are the basic principles for enhancing the full potential of egovernance in europe. as the report puts it – digital first. i would add european-in-design – interconnectivity, interoperability, cross—border by nature – key to a true european egovernance. the eu has to make sure that the furthest villages and islands are connected to high-speed internet, developing 5g networks to be available to everyone as soon as possible. being connected should be a right, not a privilege! investing in resilient, trustworthy and sustainable e-solutions may seem costly at first, yet the long-term benefits in administrative, financial and communication terms will prove to be worth the initial costs. equally, investments are needed to dramatically increase the level of digital literacy and cyber hygiene. citizens need reassurances, full transparency and accountability on how their data is treated to make full use of e-solutions. lastly, mobile solutions need to be included from the beginning in any development of egovernance. in 2016, 59% of eu citizens connected themselves to internet via mobile devices; these numbers keep growing. mobile by design is the mainstream future.
mr president, high representative, the war in syria is in its seventh year. bombardments continue, innocent civilians are dying, people are being attacked by chemical weapons, children suffer, people lose their homes. sure, we gather to raise money for humanitarian needs; we help the refugees and try to find ways to keep them from entering europe; we concentrate on the post-conflict reconstruction of syria. but the war is far from being over. the eu must find a way to contribute also to finding a solution to the conflict and not leave it only as a prerogative to russia and iran. that is why i strongly support the syria strategy. the eu, as the largest donor, must have a say in the negotiations on the future of syria. also, we still need to strive for a solution under the auspices of the united nations. the eu must actively contribute to the fight against isis, and all those responsible for the heinous crimes in syria must be brought to justice.
mr president, i would say to mrs mogherini that a strategy for syria is needed and this is better late than never, as has already been said. but the problem is that the eu’s role from the start of the syrian conflict has been, let us say, hesitant, trying to avoid involvement in the conflict. paradoxically, the syrian war has now entered european homes. but now, as mr tannock has said, the syrian conflict has turned from an internal war into an international proxy war. the void left by the non—involvement of the us and the eu has been filled by russia, iran, turkey and local extremists. without the full assistance of russia and iran, the assad regime would probably have collapsed about two years ago. what is the price of non-involvement? the second point: safe zones. there has been outcry in syria from the beginning and up until today, and there are still five million people under siege or difficult to reach. we are eager to provide humanitarian aid and that is very good, but the question is how to reach the people without safe zones. third, no effective conflict resolution or sustainable peace is possible without full accountability. war crimes must be investigated. assad is out of any international agreement because of his war crimes, and his only destination can be the international criminal court in the hague.
madam president, we must be very aware that, often, christians in the middle east have suffered the most from internal conflicts to which they were not a party. on the contrary, they have tended to have a mediating, reconciliatory role – so they have been caught between a rock and a hard place. one of my visitors from erbil told me that the eu needs to have an honest debate about whether the international community really wants christians to survive in the region from which christianity emerged. if christians were not humans, they would have been defined long ago as an endangered species and taken under international protection, but now their numbers are decreasing with dramatic speed. we heard about ‘de-christianisation of the middle east’, and probably christians will not survive another major conflict in the area. the question is whether there will be any christians in liberated mosul, or living in the nineveh plains. i have two proposals to the commission. firstly, the eu and international organisations cannot provide aid directly to religion-based groups, so we need to change the rules, because churches can provide most direct help to people in real need. and secondly, the eu can make a difference: as a large provider of humanitarian aid, our red line should be to set as criteria for local authorities that humanitarian aid must reach all groups and minorities without discrimination, and that christians and members of other minority religions will be guaranteed a return to their homes and equal rights.
in writing. the dadaab refugee camp was established in 1991 as a temporary camp for somali refugees. today, there are 260,000 people in the camp, 95% of them somali. given the current situation in somalia, with both security concerns and deteriorating living conditions due to drought and famine, people from dadaab should not be returned. especially in a situation where there are people in the camp who have never been to somalia, but have already been born in this camp. the return to somalia must be strictly voluntary and in line with international standards. the eu must and can contribute to resolving this situation by seeking to facilitate the resettlement of refugees to other countries and by contributing to a political solution in the region.
madam president, dear colleagues, one of the issues that is growing and that needs to be addressed on the global level by the g7 is cybersecurity. as of today, wannacry, the biggest ransomware attack ever, has affected more than 150 states and more than 200 000 users. the attack does not only concern regular citizens, but can endanger people’s lives and the functioning of a state and collapse economics. the last attack, for example, affected hospitals in the uk. next time, it could be a banking system, a wider healthcare malfunctioning or something else. it is time to make cybersecurity a priority for all, because a weak link in one country is a threat to everyone. it is the responsibility of g7 states and the eu to take all necessary steps to develop cyber defence and avoid possible new attacks. this is why the development of cyberspace security has to be a priority also in the eu and nato cooperation.
mr president, the report on cross-border portability is a great step forwards for the digital single market. with the increased mobility of europeans and the abolishment of roaming charges, it was a logical step. the creation of this legal fiction will ensure that all europeans who travel to another member state will have access to the content they have paid for in their own country. it abolishes borders for all kinds of online services that many people use, be it for music, e-books or movies. however, our work is still not finished. access to content across the entire european union is still not possible. as a consumer, i cannot gain access to the french version of netflix unless i am resident in france. access to european works across the entire eu is still limited. this is not the only point where the goal of a digital single market has not been reached. at this point we are regulating the internet through different directives and regulations. in practice, this is a real problem. most of the legislation which is adopted in this house is handled by different committees and there is a lack of cooperation and communication. as a result, the outcome is sometimes completely contradictory. there is a real lack of legal certainty. it is unclear whether the e-commerce directive prevails or how the relationship works between the portability, copyright, avms and infosoc [directives]. there should be clear coherence when we regulate the internet, and not an approach which consists of bits and pieces. the portability directive is a success, but the outcome will not be the same in other digital files. we have to stay focused on our digital single market goals.
mr president, this agreement on the cross-border portability of content is to be welcomed, because it corrects a flaw, a loophole in the european union, which is an area of free movement of citizens, goods and services. we have the tendency in the digital world to create barriers that should not even be there in the first place. maybe it is because of fear of losing control. when you buy a film on a dvd, nobody takes it from you when you cross the border. so why would we prevent citizens from watching a film that they are paying for at home with an online subscription when they are crossing the border? abuses can always come along, and in this respect i hope that the service providers will use the most user-friendly means of verification, such as e-ids for example, to check the home country of the citizen. i wanted the use of ip addresses, in that respect, to be stricter than that, and i hope that the enforcement of this law will safeguard the individual’s right to privacy. last but not least, i think that taxpayers should also be able to watch the content that they have already paid for in their home country, for instance with a broadcasting fee. although this is only voluntary, i hope that many public broadcasters will be innovative and proactive and deliver such a possibility for the users.
author. – mr president, there is no doubt about eu sympathy towards ethiopia. only 11 months ago, eu-ethiopia strategic engagement agreement was signed, recognising the crucial role of ethiopia in africa, especially for providing stability for the region of the horn of africa. ethiopia also has generously received almost one million refugees from neighbouring countries. however, today we are very much worried that the leader of the opposition party, dr merera gudina, has been under arrest for almost half a year. ironically, following his visit to the european parliament, he is accused of creating pressure against the government – that is the opposition’s constitutional role – and so disrupting the constitutional order. sadly, dr gudina is not alone. our resolution lists several names – journalists, one-line activists – who are kept in detention. today, therefore, we strongly urge the ethiopian government to release immediately dr gudina and all other political prisoners; to allow international investigation on the killings of protesters on government-sponsored land grabs; to start genuine dialogue with the opposition, which is the only way toward a more democratic society; to stop using anti-terrorist laws and a state of emergency to suppress peaceful protests and dissent; and to provide unrestricted access for human rights organisations and ngos to all parts of the country. these are also criteria for meaningful and credible implementation of our strategic engagement agreement.
madam president, despite the fact that we are in a hurry, i think this is an opportunity to remind ourselves of the fate of a small nation, the crimean tatars, who were deported as an ethnic group 73 years ago, on 18 may 1944. yesterday a ukrainian delegation was here and they reminded us that the famous ‘never again’ does not apply, until now, to crimean tatars. they are under russian occupation now and several of them have no access to their homeland. so i call on us to remember this and express our solidarity with this nation. (applause)
in writing. the ukrainian economy remains in a difficult situation due to the ongoing conflict and russian trade sanctions. the difficult state of the world economy has also made the situation in the country more serious. the eu can help ukraine to market its economy by increasing trade flows through the introduction of certain unilateral trade measures between the eu and ukraine. this will allow ukraine to re-orient its market towards the eu (due to the decline of the russian markets). on the positive side, the earlier introduction of similar trade measures has already increased the flow of goods between the eu and ukraine.
in writing. – regarding the situation in ukraine, where the russian federation has occupied the crimean peninsula and is constantly engaging in active warfare in eastern ukraine, there is definitely a need for europe to support ukraine in one way or another. regarding this report on the temporary autonomous trade measures for ukraine, and the idea to increase the trade flows concerning the import of certain agricultural products and to grant concessions in the form of autonomous trade measures in selected industrial products, this seems to be positive for the acceleration of the elimination of customs duties on trade between the eu and ukraine. one must also reiterate that ukraine must continue strengthening the rule of law, human rights and the separation of power in their country and actively fighting corruption and organised crime.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, colleagues, the committee on employment and social affairs was discussing this report with great interest and also concern, really, because for us the report is not only about digital industry, it is about the digital transformation of the whole of european society. we can have very nice figures about data, speed and machines, but the bottleneck, obviously, is in the lack of human resources for this big transformation. already now we can say that the number of unfilled high-level digital jobs is approaching 800 000. if you look at the gap between the skills needed and the available skills, the gap in the level of education in different countries, it is really worrying. when we look at the labour market, one third of jobs will be deeply influenced by this transformation; this will require retraining of hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of workers in europe. that means that this eur 3.5 billion that mr ansip is talking about should not be spent only on machines, but also at the same level on the development of human resources for europe. that is a huge task and i am very glad that we in our committee and between committees, we all agree that this is crucial and in all opinions of committees i found that the commission is really expected to put.. (the president cut off the speaker)
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i agree with you that it is very unusual for us to discuss the media situation in one country on the floor of the european parliament, but do you not think that at a time when the man who concentrates economic, political power and is the biggest recipient of european subsidies is in danger of winning the next elections in the czech republic in the autumn and becoming prime minister, that we should at least know about it and have a debate about it? it's european money after all. the problem is that this man is the biggest recipient of european money, so the european parliament should be at least informally interested.
member of the commission. – madam president, i thank the members of this house for this very important debate we have had, about the situation in a particular country but many of you have also underlined how important media freedom and pluralism is in general in europe. in europe, of course, it is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights, but it is under threat and in these times of alternative facts and fake news it is even more important that all of us stay vigilant in europe, and also in the rest of the world, because this is a fundamental right that european citizens deserve and should enjoy. as i have said and you well know, the commission has very limited competences in the area of media freedom and pluralism. but this does not mean that we turn a blind eye to challenges to media freedom and pluralism, we watch it very carefully. we are not planning any new legislation for the moment. we are focusing on implementing different independent projects to monitor risks to media freedom and pluralism, to map violation of media freedom and pluralism, and to help journalists under threat. we are also ensuring the independence of regulators in the proposal to review the audiovisual media service directive that the commission aims to contribute to this important goal. there is no doubt europe needs a strong, transparent, competitive, free and pluralistic media sector and this is the work of all of us. we need to do our part: the different institutions, national policy makers, media companies, journalists and citizens. it is vital for a democratic and functioning community and that is why we must fight, we must defend them and i count on this house always to look out and always to be vigilant. i thank you for this debate, which has also allowed me to learn a little bit about czech domestic politics.
in writing. – i am not especially concerned about press freedom in czech republic, as it ranks 23rd on the reporters without borders list of media freedom – higher than us, uk and france, for example. however, the concern about the oligarchisation of media is a problem to be followed closely. therefore, while the internal situation in member states is mainly covered by the subsidiarity principle, debates about such topics should be justified by real urgencies and should not become regular part of ep business. on the other hand, one has to be concerned about the plummeting quality of the european mainstream media and its trend of concentration. if the main incentive is to catch attention using thrilling, emotional and superficial news, the reliability of media as a provider of substantive, controlled and reliable information is vanishing fast. such a trend distorts news, makes media channels and outlets dependent on scandals, negative emotions and rumours as their first priority. in the long run, it distorts a sound understanding of the world and exposes media consumers to serious risks by political manipulators. the brexit campaign in the uk is an ominous example of the politically catastrophic results of the deliberate spreading of false information by the mainstream media.
mr president, i will quote today’s article in the biggest estonian newspaper: ‘every house has its own rules and it is up to the owner to decide how strangers can behave. in one family, they do not like it if you use the wrong fork, in another it is possible to crap in the corner.’ what kind of family is estonia? we respect newcomers and do not forbid them to follow their customs but they are not allowed to walk in dirty boots on the clean carpet. therefore, the discussion about language in kindergartens is ridiculous. there is no option about estonian. those who want to bring up their child in another language can do it at their own expense and at their own risk. this is said about 32 % of russian-speaking estonians, taxpayers who have lived in my country for more than three generations. about children whose mother tongue is compared with ‘crap in the corner’. here in this house we discuss the problems of human rights and linguistic diversity in the world, but please, let us pay attention to the eu where we still have a number of unresolved minority issues and where, in order to justify xenophobia, we still speak in terms of owners and the guest in our common house.
in writing. the humanitarian situation in yemen is catastrophic. the situation is worsening, with people suffering from malnutrition and disease, among other things. military activity continues, humanitarian aid cannot be delivered and aid workers cannot get to help. the ongoing war has destabilised the country and is a potential target for terrorist and extremist organisations. the only way to solve this is through negotiations. continued support from the eu and the un is also essential. it is also important that countries actually allocate their pledged humanitarian aid to the un.
madam president, there has been a lot of talk about limitation of freedom of expression elsewhere, but we also have to look into the european union and what are we doing here. many decision makers see the online world as this scary place where no rule applies and it is full of hate speech and an incitement to terrorism. but as much as the internet can do bad, it can also do good. despite – or maybe thanks to – the scale of the internet, where everything is amplified, freedom of expression matters as much online as it does offline. there is much to be done to educate people as regards to their behaviour online, but one important thing is to understand that if you make it easy to block and take down content, you make it easy to commit censorship. the current discussions are all about how fast a company take down content, how to make it faster. however, i believe that if we are serious about protecting freedom of speech online, we need to take a big step back and ask ourselves if making companies the police, the prosecutor and the judge is the right answer.
mr president, kosovo’s state is less than ten years old, but its internal situation is still fragile. joining the eu is the only answer to internal, as well as a regional, conflicts in the western balkans. this needs to be clearly understood by all stakeholders, including the eu, and i would like to commend commissioner hahn for his dedication and commitment to the western balkans. when we say that the serbian accession progress is linked to good bilateral relations in the region, the same applies to kosovo. for that, the normalisation of serbia-kosovo relations is crucial. for visa liberalisation to be realised, kosovo has to fulfil all relevant criteria, including ratification of the agreement with montenegro. the internal political climate and frustration of a great part of the population in the democratic procedure is deeply alarming. last sunday, almost 60% of voters abstained from voting. this provides a dangerous playing ground for radical and nationalist forces. one political development is that reducing corruption and organised crime and making the judiciary more efficient has been assessed as good by the commission. on the other hand, no improvement on freedom of expression and economic criteria could be noticed, and, after all, as our rapporteur, ms lunacek, said, the key to all solutions is implementation. ten weeks ago, the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) entered into force. kosovo now needs, more than ever, national unity, regional reconciliation and credible implementation of the saa.
in writing. – although president trump’s decision to withdraw the united states from the cop 21 climate agreement baffled european countries and other signatories of the agreement, i believe that in the future, when we look back, we can thank president trump, whose actions have pushed europe and the rest of the world more together, in order to take climate change much more seriously and to actually take concrete steps to enforce agreements. we have even seen how several us states have gone against president trump’s decisions, by pledging to fulfil cop 21 commitments voluntarily. we welcome such action, as this is a great example of how unified work of individuals and businesses at a grass-roots level can have an effect on important matters, even if the leaders of the country think otherwise. climate change is a global challenge, and we need to tackle it, even if we are met with resistance.
madam president, many colleagues talk about the collaborative economy, but i will focus on the online platforms. it has become quite trendy that, when something bad happens in society or the economy, the online platforms are blamed. when there is a terrorist attack, then the circus starts: we blame the internet; governments ask for action and require companies to remove content faster. when do we stop? at what point do we understand that you can take down content, but it will reappear somewhere else – that no filtering technology is able to make moral judgment of what is right and what is wrong? maybe sometimes it is better that the private companies – especially not european – take a bit more time to decide how to silence free speech. the european commission is to be criticised for not proposing anything in the past 15 years on the notice and takedown procedure, but any colleague who thinks that they have found a perfect scapegoat in the internet needs to think more about what is right or what is wrong.
author. – mr president, pakistan is an important partner for the eu. however, this parliament is seriously concerned about the human rights situation, especially about the number of executions after pakistan reinstated the death penalty. most alarming is the use, or rather misuse of the so-called blasphemy law, which carries a mandatory death penalty. on 10 june 2017, the pakistani court passed a death sentence to taimoor raza for committing blasphemy on facebook. we call on the pakistani authorities to introduce some immediate measures that could reverse this present trend, first on all executions on any offense other than intentional killing. second, stop executing juvenile offenders. third, provide a moratorium on executions on those whose appeals are pending. fourth, reinstate a moratorium on all executions as soon as possible and provide also maximum state guarantees for normal work of journalists, ngos and human rights defenders.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, standardisation remains quite a technical topic. however, if you talk to people then you hear that people are quite annoyed at having different plugs and different cables for each device that they have, and this is all due to a lack of standards. the eu needs to have an effective and proactive market-driven standardisation policy if we want to be leaders in innovation, the leaders of the race for 5g and for the internet of things. this sector is very fragmented, with many proprietary and semi-closed solutions and a multitude of standards. however, if we think about what the internet of things is all about – devices communicating with other devices – it is difficult to see how we can do this without standards. i believe that the more open standards we have, the more innovation we have. however, the discussion on this report has shown that we all talk about open standards but we all have different views about what ‘open’ really means. can we truly call a standard open just because the standardisation process was inclusive enough? or what about the outcome of the standard? the point of setting standards is that other companies will be able to build their innovations upon them. at least this report acknowledges that there are different business models out there, but i do think the commission should promote solutions that ensure that different business models can co-exist. if all standardisation initiatives are based on royalties, for instance, where does it leave open-source licensing? as open source can be shared in an unlimited manner, it is not really compatible with royalty-based models. this report is therefore a good start for discussion, but i hope that it is not the end of it.
madam president, we are in a unique situation today where we have the support of the people and of governments to do more on the defence and security of the european union. we need to take advantage of this and make things happen. the latest steps taken by the commission and the council in launching the defence fund and establishing a command centre in brussels are good and encouraging, and we need to continue. let me just remind you that the european parliament adopted a report on the european defence union last november and there are still many things, 20 to be precise, on the list in the report that need to be ticked off in order to reach the goal of a truly functional defence policy. we need better coordination of investments in the areas of security and defence, full use of fiscal and crisis-management capacities, to name but a few. i am glad to see that the eu is moving from ideological discussions about the union’s defence to real, concrete action.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr mureşan, your opening remarks, but also the mandate and the report you have drawn up, are largely in line with the parallel thinking of the european commission. 2018 is likely to be the last full normal financial year. that means that with 28 member states, with the continuation of the multiannual financial framework, which by the way was half-finished two days ago, we are three and a half years behind, and three and a half years ahead. i therefore look forward to a factual debate in the future. in fact, we thought that it was wrong to make flat-rate cuts without looking at the individual programmes and without taking ownership of the implementation of the 2017 budget. the commission's priorities are our priorities, and parliament's cooperation with the commission in the run-up to the summit has been deliberately reflected in this. it is about economic growth, it is about jobs, it is about tackling youth unemployment, it is about us building something new for young people in heading 1a with the european youth solidarity corps without taking it away from erasmus+ with a negative impact, and it is about us continuing our proven programmes but also tackling new issues migration as an established focus in the european budget. with the subject of defence research, we are tasking ourselves in the form of pioneering attempts to move forward 40 million in 2018, 90 million in the three years to the end of 2019. that makes sense! if we do european research, coordinated research, we will gain insights which will be very important in the next decade on the way to the next financial framework. you have raised the issue of turkey and the eu. we attach great importance to this: every euro goes to refugees, every euro goes to people and their homes in refugee camps - shelter, heat, cold, water, food, clothing, security, education - and the three billion will be spent in the very near future, probably by the end of the year, in the form of commitments, in the form of commitments. we are now waiting to see how the next few weeks will go g20 keynote in hamburg how and whether we can continue to work with the turkish government in some areas in order to combat the smuggling of human beings, to give people human dignity on the ground three million refugees are in turkey, a huge number. so we once used the 230 million in the next budget to mark a house number. that gives us credibility and negotiating power. we will have to ask the member states to give us substantial additional funds, as we did last time. our british friends must decide whether they will stay, which we would welcome, and if necessary we must increase appropriations by means of transfers during the procedure until november. we will keep you informed of the progress of this agreement with turkey over the coming weeks. what was important to me was that the midterm review held that the british people had been fair and collegial after their election, that the purdah was only until election day and the midterm review is now being implemented into law and so the flexibility that comes from it makes a lot more possible in the 2018, 2019, and 2020 fiscal years. all in all, i would say, a draft which reflects the priorities of the large majority of parliament. we will work together to ensure that there are no blanket cuts but rather concrete individual considerations title by title, group by group, project by project and programme by programme . we'll start the trilogy on july 13th, and then we'll have a lot of hard work to do in september and october. but i have the impression from many conversations with you, mr mureşan, and with others, that the expertise in parliament is very high and that we are both working together to ensure that this draft budget, as we have drafted it, can be transposed into law in november. we're on schedule. thank you for your work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, before i outline green thinking on a few main points in next year’s budget, i would like to thank mr mureşan for the great job he has done. no one would have believed that an adventurous and joyous student of humboldt university, such as he was, would become such a statesman only 10 years later, able to manage all compromises on this issue, which were quite complicated. the first of them – and i was extremely pleased to hear this from commissioner oettinger – is that the new initiative on the european solidarity corps will not be financed at the cost of the erasmus programme, and that deserves applause from the green group in parliament as well. secondly, i keep my eyes wide open on climate action, and we have still not managed to meet the requirements of the european court of auditors report, in that we still do not spend enough on climate-change deterrence action, and the situation is becoming more and more serious. the latest scenario i read is that this place – this very place, strasbourg – could be turned into a swamp in just 30 years if the ocean level rises only 2.5 m. and this is where we need to help finland, as president of the arctic council, to explain to other members, like the usa and russia, what is actually happening up in the arctic. finally, this is not a green point but it is my pleasure personally, unlike ms ní riada, to welcome the european defence initiative. this is a serious matter, and a second pillar of nato needs to be created here.
madam president, relations with non-democratic states must be based on a clear balance between economic interests and respect for basic values. this balance is not yet there because the present approach is more based on good hopes that the repressive regime can become more humane and respectful of human rights. the cuban ladies in white have sent a different message. they complain that there is a deafening silence from western governments on continued human rights violations in cuba, and they expect that the eu should take first of all the side of the cuban people, not the regime. at this point, trade relations and its investments will not necessarily serve the cuban people, but rather the ruling elites, enabling them to survive longer. there is a role to play for the eu, because the eu is the largest investor and main trade partner. we are in a position to pressure the cuban government more to open up. however, trade volumes with cuba have doubled, but the human rights situation remains a source of concern. hence the eu’s policy toward cuba must remain conditional on genuine opening-up of the respect of human rights and democratic changes there.
in writing. the un is normally concerned with all sorts of problems and their solutions, including human rights, humanitarian aid, development aid, etc. it is equally important to focus on the un as an institution and the changes it faces. for decades, there has been talk of the need to reform the united nations and its security council, but little progress has been made. a thorough reform of the un security council is needed to better reflect the new global situation and to be able to respond more effectively to current and future security threats. it is important to agree that the members of the un security council will refrain from using the right of veto in cases concerning crimes against humanity. in addition, the eu should aim to gain a seat on the reformed un security council. this requires constant work.
president of the council. mr president of the court of justice! in july 1979, louise weiss, after whom the building is named, gave the first speech before the first directly elected european parliament. in her speech, weiss, then 89 years old, referred to the work of hermann keyserling, the 'grandmother of europe'. keyserling was an estonian-born philosopher who, as early as the beginning of the 20th century, had a vision of a united europe. a europe where countries work together but retain their uniqueness. europe, which is strong because of its diversity. at the same meeting, simone veil, who was making her first speech as president (and was about to leave for paris), stressed that only through the european dimension could the three great challenges of peace, freedom and prosperity be met. it still is. thirty-eight years later, i have the honour to stand here to present the priorities of estonia's first presidency of the council of the european union. much has changed since the days of keyserling and weiss, but the idea of a european union of nations has remained. the european union is not just an idea. for 500 million people in the eu, it is their daily reality. europeans want and deserve a union that is strong and decisive and that delivers. to achieve that, we must ensure that every voice is heard and balance the different traditions, interests and opinions in europe, fairly. this is why the overarching theme of our presidency is unity through balance. first, before i turn to our plans, i acknowledge that no presidency can succeed, alone. we will work very closely with you, honourable members of the european parliament, to make sure that citizens are at the heart of everything we do. we need your wisdom and input on every topic on our agenda. we are very grateful to malta for their excellent work paving the way for us and our trio partners bulgaria and austria. in bratislava, malta and rome, we had a frank and honest discussion about where we stand and what we need to do to weather the storms ahead and emerge stronger. it is our shared agenda, with the honourable parliament, to find concrete answers to our citizens' most pressing concerns unemployment, security and immigration and to bring europe closer to our citizens. for the estonian council presidency, our key aim is to move forward with the eu's positive agenda the four priorities that we will focus on over the next six months reflect these discussions and are guided by the spirit of the rome declaration. they include an open and innovative european economy, an inclusive and sustainable europe, a safe and secure europe and, of course, a digital europe with the free movement of data. our priority of an open and innovative european economy, a strong and competitive european economy, supports growth and employment. of course, that will make our plans and vision in every other policy area possible. the single market is one of the greatest assets of the eu, and the free movement of goods, services, people and capital benefits us all. however, the single market is not complete. some of its potential is still untapped. our presidency is prioritising the creation of an innovative, european social market economy that is open to changes, opportunities, free and fair trade and original ideas. for companies to succeed, the business environment must be transparent, simple and free of red tape. we are focused on ensuring a stable banking sector and taking forward the services package, and we stand ready to reform eu company law. equally, a smarter, cleaner and more cost-effective energy system with an enhanced role for the consumer is an important part of a competitive european economy, and one that we will aim for. our next priority is an inclusive and sustainable europe. of course, a strong economy must be based on the core european values of inclusivity and sustainability. the eu is not just for the few, or for the here and now. we want to ensure that every european citizen can continue to enjoy a europe that is beautiful, sustainable, free, prosperous and safe. one of the biggest challenges for this generation of politicians is technological transformation. it is one that i am confident we can shape. because of our changing society and the influence of technology, the very nature of work is changing. remote working in a digital economy means an employer and an employee may never actually meet in person. along with robotization and artificial intelligence, it represents the fourth industrial revolution. in response, we need to adapt our social security systems and respond to changes in the economic environment. skills must meet the needs of future jobs, whether it be building self-driving cars or designing virtual reality experiences. during our presidency, we will focus on ways in which the eu can offer equal opportunities and conditions for people, both in their own member state and also when working and living in another. equally, we owe it to our future generations and we owe it to our planet to fulfil our commitment to the paris agreement and ensure that sustainability is a key feature of all european policies. despite the united states withdrawing from the agreement, we will not change our own commitment. our next priority is a safe and secure europe. born from the destruction of two bloody world wars, europe came together, united. it is our utmost duty to keep europe safe and secure. we cannot fail in that. let us underline this to the house. in the 21st century, we must not accept aggression against a european country or the illegal annexation and occupation of part of its territory. were it not for the 1983 european parliament resolution on soviet-occupied estonia, latvia and lithuania, perhaps i would not be standing in front of you today. i remember what it means to live inside closed borders when the berlin wall, the iron curtain, divided europe. we were not allowed to visit foreign countries. even estonian islands were highly guarded border-zones that could be visited only with a special permit. i remember my parents watching finnish television and listening to the radio free europe the only access to the free world. i know what it means to wish for freedom and democracy. i believe that it is not impossible that one day in the future, a ukrainian president may stand in front of this house in the same role as i am today. it is clear that the european union must assume greater responsibility for security in and around europe. no single country is able to stand up to the threats we face, or solve these challenges, alone. the global strategy, the eu-nato joint declaration and the debate on the future of defence rightly set out a high ambition. in order to keep those ambitious promises and deliver results, we need to spend more and we need to spend better on defense. that means joint development of the necessary capabilities. at the same time, we need to make full use of the existing and new mechanisms, such as the battlegroups, permanent structured cooperation and the european defence fund. practice makes perfect, so we must regularly carry out coordinated crisis-management exercises. the eu has a vast toolbox ranging from industry, to cyber defence, from strategic communication to battlegroups. the eu's external borders need better protection and tighter control over the movement of both irregular migrants and illicit goods. law enforcement needs a targeted toolbox for cooperation and information sharing. sadly, many of the recent terrorist attacks have proven that often the threats to our safety are not caused by shortcomings on the ground, but by the lack of information sharing. therefore, we must continue to create modern it solutions for the rapid exchange of information. we must improve the interoperability of information systems and the quality of data exchange. there cannot be known unknowns, when peoples lives are at stake. the ongoing migration-crisis remains the most urgent challenge that we have seen for decades. it is our responsibility, not only as europeans but as human beings, to assist those seeking refuge in europe from the tragedy of the syrian war. once again, no member state can resolve the crisis on their own. we can only keep europe safe if we act together, in the spirit of solidarity and responsibility. the eu cannot only look inwards. we must look outwards, actively assisting countries in our neighborhood, both in the south as well as the east. we must reconfirm our political commitment to the eastern partnership in order to better respond to the ambitions of all the partners. in addition to the eastern partnership summit, we will also contribute to the preparations of the eu-latin american and caribbean states summit and the eu-africa summit. in summary, our citizens expect safety and security, and we must deliver it together and without hesitation. next, our priority of creating a digital europe and the free movement of data. in estonia, we think of the free movement of data as the fifth freedom of the eu. therefore, we will start a political debate in europe on this essential freedom. the digital revolution is at the core of every challenge and opportunity that europe faces today. together with our trio partners, bulgaria and austria, we are committed to delivering a digital single market in 2018. but we must also look further afield, which is why we have a digital dimension to almost every aspect of our presidency programme, from fisheries to space, and the use of data the raw material of the digital society. the development of cross-border services and e-commerce has tangible benefits for eu citizens. buying goods or services online, watching your favourite domestic tv-show, or using e-prescriptions in another european country should be possible and easy. concluding the current negotiations on geoblocking, audiovisual media services and taking forward the reform of copyright will help get us there. a critical aspect of a functioning digital society is trust. europe should be a safe place where rules respecting privacy, data protection and our digital identity are vital. as seen from the recent global cyber-attacks, we need to up our game to keep europe safe. to support this digital society, europe requires fast, seamless, always-on and always-available connectivity. europe needs to be among the pioneers in rolling out 5g and developing new connected products and services. updating the telecommunications regulatory framework will contribute to these goals. a data driven economy and the fourth industrial revolution will also need a digital government. every person in europe should be able to interact with the government with ease and without worry. during our presidency, we will encourage the use of it solutions in daily life, including our health, justice, and financial systems. trust us on this point, once you have filled out your tax declaration in just three minutes while sitting by the river on a nice sunday, you will never want to go back to paperwork. in the estonian government, we save a stack of papers as high as the eiffel tower each month that means twelve eiffel towers per year! in september, i look forward to welcoming the heads of states, governments and institutions to the digital summit in tallinn to discuss these very issues and opportunities. there is one more topic that i would like to address before i conclude brexit. we are sad to see the uk withdraw from the eu. it is a loss for our country, for the european union and for the united kingdom. i hope that the united kingdom will remain a close friend. the negotiations need to be conducted in a constructive spirit, tackling first the citizens' rights, the financial settlement and the border in ireland. however, the presidency's task is also to make sure that the eu27 continues to work and continues to deliver for our future. we will not let brexit negotiations dominate our work or prevent us from achieving results. in conclusion, honourable members of the parliament, i hope that our presidency will be remembered as one that allowed europe to put the crises behind us and once again look optimistically towards our future. in the words of the great irish poet seamus heaney, this could be a once-in-a-lifetime moment when hope and history rhyme. my own country and people have been very lucky. our hope and history have rhymed twice in less than a century so, in a way, it makes us experts on seizing the day. i'm sure we're not alone in feeling that change is in the air. europe needs to be redefined for every generation, to adapt and to inspire. helmut kohl was one of the key architects of europe. we sent him on his last journey from this very room only a few days ago. he said: "the visionaries of yesterday are the realists of today". i believe that things we never thought possible are happening, right before our eyes. so, there's no excuse for not acting, there's no excuse for thinking small. we will turn tomorrow's reality into the one we want. today, it is up to us to begin creating that vision, creating that reality.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i am honoured to stand here today, on behalf of president jean-claude juncker and the entire commission, at the start of the first ever estonian presidency of the council of the european union. this moment comes after a long wait for a country that joined the european union some 13 years ago, but good things come to those who wait, and europe has many good things to look forward to over the course of the next six months. along with president juncker and my fellow commissioners, i was in tallinn last week and saw first hand how well-prepared the presidency team is. knowing how the estonian civil service works, i never doubted this for a moment. this is also reflected in the programme of the estonian presidency, which is fully in line with the joint declaration which the presidents of the three institutions signed at the end of last year. both go to the heart of the issues that matter the most for europeans. the timing of the estonian presidency could not be better. i say that because it comes at a time when we need to make progress on making the digital part of europe’s dna. the next six months are crucial for making our economy digital. since this commission came into office, we have made some real progress towards completing the digital single market, having made 35 proposals since november 2014. together with the upcoming bulgarian and austrian presidencies, estonia has set the goal of reaching agreement in all of them by the end of next year. that will be important if we are to benefit from the eur 415 billion that completing the digital single market could unlock. i am delighted that the presidency has highlighted 5g coverage as a priority area. we want 5g to be commercially available in at least one major city of each eu member state by 2020, as it will be in tallinn by next year. but in the long term, all urban areas, as well as major roads and railways across europe, should have uninterrupted 5g coverage. achieving that could bring eur 146 billion worth of benefits a year and is likely to create 2.39 million jobs in the european union. jobs matter to europeans, and these are the things that we must focus on. that is why we are also making sure that we are investing in our digital future. there is no shortage of european innovators and entrepreneurs with new and fresh ideas to bring to a thriving digital market. but europe cannot afford to lose these ideas to other parts of the world because of a lack of opportunities or financing. that is why we are focusing on investments, so start—ups and small businesses can access the financing that they need to scale up and bring their ideas to market. the capital markets union is already helping to make venture capital easier to access, and the juncker plan has now mobilised eur 209 billion across europe. one of your first achievements will be to secure an agreement on extending the fund so it can unlock at least eur 0.5 trillion by 2020. but the success of the digital single market will also depend on trust and security. that is why i hope we can learn from estonia’s experience on cybersecurity. the scale of the risks is significant. by 2020 there will be 50 billion connected devices. just last year there were 4 000 ransomware attacks per day – a 300% increase compared to the year before. we saw the damage that the data ransomware attack caused to institutions in europe and elsewhere just last week. that is a very stark reminder and a very clear warning that we cannot take our cybersecurity for granted. with that in mind, we will review the eu cybersecurity strategy with targeted initiatives by september. i know we can rely on your support and expertise on this and on all other broader security issues which i know your presidency has prioritised. finding agreement on the european travel information and authorisation system and the entry—exit system by the end of the year will be absolutely crucial to ensuring that. equally, the reform of the common european asylum system has taken too long to come to fruition. i sincerely hope that the ‘unity in balance’ slogan of your presidency can be applied here and across the board. there is much work ahead of us over the next six months, and i am glad that the estonian presidency will be leading the way. i will not only wish them – or jüri – good luck, but i also thank you in advance. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, there is an old saying that a person will be remembered for two things only – the problems he has solved, and the problems he has left. i think estonia has a good chance of qualifying in the first category. as a small country that is not too much burdened by its national interests, estonia can better play the role of an honest broker to bring the 27 member state governments more closely together, because this is needed more than ever today. i like the estonian message, which could be called ‘back to basics’, that the fundamental freedoms need to be fully implemented. as you said, prime minister, the single market is not yet complete. i also like the focus on concrete results for eu citizens in terms of better provision for security, safety and quality of life. and similarly, for our neighbours, i am encouraged that estonia sees the eastern partnership as a cross-cutting priority for our foreign and security policy. it should remain a special commitment to help neighbouring nations become part of the same area of rule of law and prosperity. yesterday evening, commission vice-president timmermans said something which moved me. he said that if poland and the baltic states had not joined the european union in 2004, they would have shared today the fate of ukraine. let us now address together the fate of ukraine and finally agree on a realistic common strategy to counter, without hesitation, russia’s aggressive policy. the ultimate goal of that policy is not ukraine, but the weakening, confusing and compromising of the eu itself. the same is true in relation to energy solidarity. i trust estonia will lend momentum to the completion of the digital single market, boost digital europe and advance the free movement of data. and, to conclude, i look forward to an active and coordinated approach towards the mediterranean and middle eastern crises, building an efficient border guard system and preparing for an active post-isis role in iraq and syria. i think estonia has a chance to make europe cosier and closer to our citizens, and greater for the outside world. good luck estonia! good luck europe!
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, it is really a great day of joy for all estonians, because all estonia have been preparing ourselves to this first presidency. i remember when we started this way to the european union in 1997, we were poor but we were bold, and we were absolutely sure that the european union is our destiny: it is our goal and we bring the best of us to that. the same year, we started also the programme ‘tiger leap’. it was a programme of digitalisation. we brought computers in all the estonian schools, and we were sure that digitalisation is our shortcut – shortcut to the future; shortcut to the future where we are now. here our prime minister is standing – the youngest prime minister in europe – and bringing here both programmes connected with digitalisation, digital revolution really in europe. what i want to stress is that our experience is showing that digital revolution is total. it is not only market, it is not only technology. in the first place it is new relationships in the whole society: a new type of services, a new type of well-being, a new type of engagement and activity and participation of people, and for that, i suppose, it is very important also to build trust. and as a president said, i suppose that is the most difficult task, because we can tell whatever we like about our good experiences, about digital and so on, but you have to convince the other 27 or 26 that it is that, and very often you will hear what we have heard here – ‘oh, you are so small and bold, you can do that.’ but we are much bigger; we have bigger risks. we will wait. but we know that europe cannot wait. europe cannot wait; europe needs this; europe needs to be the most competitive, biggest market in the world for most advanced technology, but also for most advanced society. and i will also stress very much what already was said here. we are living not in a very happy moment for the world. we are looking what is going on around us. yesterday we saw how putin and the chinese leader were embracing each other. we see what is happening in turkey. we know that really europe is one of the most important hopes for the world to preserve ideals of democracy, liberal democracy, human rights. these are values which cannot be left just to free flow. we have to protect them, fight for them, and as was said by the prime minister, estonia is like also latvians, lithuanians, poles: we know really the price of freedom. we know the price of the democracy, and for that i am sure that, under our estonian presidency, the european union as a whole will be stronger also in this fight. so i wish you good luck. i wish you strength and wisdom and trust. (applause)
madam president, i will try to make all of my speech fit into 60 seconds. according to the digital economy and society index for 2017, estonia is number one in the eu in terms of supply and use of digital public services. the estonian government system is praised for its openness and trust. the estonian presidency will hopefully promote cross-border use of digital public services and estonia will share its experience with other member states. like other colleagues, i highly appreciate that the estonian presidency’s priorities include the development of cross-border e-commerce in these services and modern electronic communications. nevertheless, during trialogues, the presidency will face challenges related to the review of the audiovisual media services directive. this piece of legislation is rather controversial and estonia still has an opportunity to address such issues as the inappropriate extension of the scope of the directive to social media. this is only one of several controversial files which will be on the table during the estonian presidency, but i strongly believe that sometimes small countries like estonia are much better at searching and achieving compromises than big ones. and that is the reason i’m looking forward for a really fruitful and friendly estonian presidency.
mr. chairman of the board! i also wanted to talk about digital developments, because obviously everyone in this house knows that estonia is a digital country. but listening to this debate and listening to the good things that my colleagues say about estonia, i would like to share with you a different emotion. i'm very proud of estonia. i am proud that in one generation of humanity we have fought for our freedom and our equal place among the nations of europe. i am also proud that there is one area in which we can be a beacon and a model for the european union. and to show that europe as a whole has a lot to gain from the digital single market. i believe that by holding this estonian presidency we will be able to prove that estonia is as important to europe as europe is to estonia. thank you!
mr. chairman of the board! european defence cooperation is an area in which estonia, as the country holding the presidency of the european union, has high expectations for its development. estonia now has a unique opportunity to help strengthen the european union's defence capability and defence cooperation. estonia has not only been a consumer of security, but also a contributor to it. estonia has for years met the 2% defence spending criterion and has also made a significant contribution to international missions. as a member of both nato and the european union, estonia can contribute to the rapid development of european union defence cooperation in such a way that the european union and nato complement each other's capabilities to the maximum. i would remind you that last november the european parliament adopted a report on the european defence union, or defence cooperation. it lists things that need to be done to develop european defence cooperation. the defence fund and the brussels command centre have been set up, but 20 issues still require decisions and action before we can speak of a truly functioning defence cooperation within the european union. next year estonia will celebrate its 100th birthday, and i believe that in a hundred years we will all be able to celebrate estonia's 200th birthday together in a safe europe. get to work!
mr president, i will talk in a language the presidency will understand without translation. ma tahaksin öelda seda, et tõepoolest on viimane aeg meil selgesti tunnistada, et türgi veereb meie kõigi nähes totalitaarse diktatuuri poole, mis on väga hästi teadaolev olukord nii sakslastele kui ka meile, kes me tuleme nõukogude liidu alt. panna silmad kinni ja öelda, et võib-olla kõik paraneb, ei ole enam kuidagimoodi õigustatud. kati piri raport on selles mõttes väga tõepärane, kuid me peame endale aru andma ka sellest, et need, keda me peame toetama, on tegelikud inimesed, kes kannatavad praegu. peame toetama eriti neid türgi kodanikke, kes on saanud praegu tulla ära, kes on põgenenud türgist ja ootavad meie tuge ka siin selleks, et siin luua ja anda kuulda oma häält ning oma tunnistusi selle kohta, mis türgis tegelikult toimub. ma väga loodan, et meie demokraatlik meedia, kelle suu ei ole kinni pandud, ja meie oma parlament, kes suudab neid asju arutada avalikult, annab selle võimaluse, et me saaksime korraldada kuulamise (kas afeti ja libega koos või mingil muul viisil), et saada tegelikku ja objektiivset ülevaadet sellest, mis türgis tegelikult toimub, mis nende kohtuprotsessidega toimub, mis toimub türgi meediaga ja kuidas me saaksime türgiga edasi toimetada niiviisi, et me ei kaota dialoogi, kuid samas ei tee ka nägu, et midagi ei toimu.
mr president, this umpteenth discussion about one seat is being conducted on the wrong basis because it’s not a question of choosing between strasbourg and brussels. many of my colleagues have already quoted the treaty and it is clear: our activities here are legal in brussels. the issue, however, is not one of geography, it is a question of power. most of us want to be in brussels because then we can be closer to an executive branch of power, closer to commissioners, life-time contracted civil servants and all that kind of ‘glamour’. i believe that our french colleagues would support me when i call on this chamber to study carefully the works of montesquieu, rousseau and others. that means we must change the treaties and give this parliament more power. for instance, vote down commissioners, jean-claude juncker included if need be, and only after that can we discuss whether we like strasbourg more than krakow, for instance.
in writing. – this regulation is among the most crucial ones to ensuring the eu’s resilience towards hostile policy from outside the eu. it is important to understand that the regulation is basically a legally-binding solidarity mechanism, aimed at protecting states and citizens against blackmail and political pressure. the eu needs to complete its own instruments to make sure that gas supplies cannot be used against any member state as a political weapon. it leaves member states enough leverage to design their own prevention and crisis mitigation plans. at the same time, the regulation makes it obligatory to take into account regional concerns by including a common regional chapter in every national plan. the 13 eu regions are defined as risk-based groups in order to meet their particular regional needs flexibly. the solidarity clause, which is triggered automatically whenever one of the member states is affected by a very serious cut in gas supply, is a crucial step towards completing the energy union. lastly, increased transparency in the gas sector is advantageous for the energy security of the eu as a whole. this aspect sets out that all gas contracts crucial for european energy security and that exceed a certain threshold of energy consumption need to be notified. this will significantly increase accountability.
president-in-office of the council,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, speaking on behalf of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, mrs mogherini, i welcome both this opportunity to join you today and the preparation and discussion of the report prepared by ms valero. this is a testimony to parliamentary scrutiny of arms exports, which is a sound follow-up to transparency applied at eu level on arms export issues. interaction channels on arms export issues with parliament and civil society, including ngos, the academic world and the industry have developed considerably over the years. this is an invaluable achievement and it illustrates that transparency and dialogue can fruitfully take place without prejudice to the respective responsibilities of national and eu stakeholders. at a time when we advocate further transparency worldwide, notably via the arms trade treaty (att), we believe it is important to ensure that transparency does not run counter to national and regional security. the eu framework governing arms exports mainly revolves around the eu common position on arms exports adopted in 2008. this framework is unique. it is based on the national responsibility of eu member states on arms export licensing decisions, together with well-developed information-sharing between the export control authorities of member states. the risk assessment criteria laid down by the eu common position are comprehensive and far-reaching, notably in terms of respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, the risk of diversion and the impact on internal and regional stability. their daily application by national licensing offices is supported by the so—called user’s guide that was revised in 2015, notably in order to align it with the arms trade treaty. against this background of national responsibility exercised with common risk assessment criteria, the overarching objectives of the eu common position are to promote responsible arms export policies and the convergence of national arms export policies. in support of these objectives, the council and the european external action service provide an information-sharing platform which is the dedicated council working party on arms exports, and an it platform enabling the exchange of information relevant for risk assessment, including details on license denials. like the eu guidelines, these information-sharing components have been recently overhauled and updated as a result of the review of the eu common position achieved in 2015. this has contributed – and continues to further contribute – to the convergence of arms export policies as they are being put into practice. briefly widening the picture outside the eu, in our close neighbourhood a number of third countries have aligned with the criteria of the eu common position. to assist them in their daily operational implementation, the eu has had in place since 2009 an outreach programme funding technical cooperation. the latest phase, covering the years 2016-2017, will come to a close in december, but steps are already being taken to continue the work with a new council decision for the years 2018 and 2019. secondly, and moving to an even larger picture, i would like to refer to the arms trade treaty. this treaty sets unique and widely-accepted standards to achieve greater responsibility and transparency in the arms trade. the att entered into force in december 2014 and so far, 130 states have signed it and 92 countries are state parties, including all 28 eu member states. of note, however, is that some of the largest arms exporters and importers, such as russia, china, india and pakistan, have not signed or ratified it. all diplomatic opportunities are used to encourage countries that have taken no steps towards the treaty to join it by providing the eu assistance programme where needed and requested. the arms trade is becoming more and more globalised. it is our duty to lead by example when it comes to arms exports from the eu. it is equally our duty to encourage and support other arms manufacturers and traders to apply the att standards.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank colleague valero for her commitment, openness and readiness to understand different points of view, some of which are still there. at the start, i am satisfied that the report clearly confirms the right of every sovereign state to self-defence. consequently, states also have a legitimate right to acquire military technologies for the support purposes of self-defence. the common position of eight criteria is a strong commitment by the member states to systematically control and verify exports of the products of national defence industries. issuing export licences is based on clear principles. there are several problems with the implementation of the common position, and therefore we support a more demanding and coherent approach. however, the ppe sees no need for extra new criteria or new specific structures or sanctions to enforce control. the first task for us is to secure full and strict implementation with existing commitments. what we need most is more timely and systematic exchange of information on export licences and actual exports. member states have different ways of acquiring information. sharing relevant information quickly and regularly is important when other governments have to decide whether to grant an arms export licence or to refuse it, and i welcome the council’s approach to these problems – especially providing, for example, info-sharing platforms, etc. diversion of arms remains a major concern. we fully agree with it. we need to address this problem efficiently through joint strategy and action, both by member states and the commission. we have asked for separate votes on paragraph 29 and paragraph 34. together with the ecr, we hope that colleagues will be able to support them.
the imposition of new sanctions by the un on north korea is absolutely necessary, while i agree with those who say that in reality these sanctions should have been even stronger, and therefore i also support the european union adding something else to these sanctions, because we must make the korean peninsula nuclear-free. but in this nuclear arms debate, we cannot ignore the people who are suffering in north korea as a result of the actions of this leadership. crimes against humanity, forced labour camps, executions, torture, disappearances, food shortages, poor health care and general restrictions on freedom of movement and expression have been in our consciousness for years. too long to just look the other way. also of concern is the chinese behavior of returning north korean refugees from china who are likely to be killed or imprisoned there. so the international community has to take action on this as well, so that the north korean leadership is probably in the right place before the international criminal court.
madam president, i address my comments to madam mogherini. the fact we have to face is that the north korean regime has now a nuclear bomb in a stage to be carried by a ballistic missile. consequently, the reaction could not be any more business as usual – that is, sanctions with loopholes and hesitations. i fully support the approach that we need additional sanctions, and as has been mentioned today, a total ban on oil exports to north korea and freezing the assets of the north korean leadership. they would have some effect. but i think we need to pay attention to the loopholes. the first problem is china, which takes in more than 90% of north korea’s exports and which has interest in keeping the regime going, seeing it as a useful tool to push america out of china’s sphere of influence. the second problem is iran. north korea is not alone. in fact, we face two extreme fanatic dictatorships that are complementary. they collaborate, supporting each other. iran is boosting its missile programme and supplying kim jong-un with military know-how. some years ago it was the opposite. so we have to address both challenges.
in writing. the eu-india partnership must be based on shared values such as respect for democracy and human rights. we cannot ignore a very important concern for estonia in its relations with india. for almost four years, 14 estonian and 6 british ship's guards have been held in india and there is no progress. the tamil nadu court has postponed the trial for the last ten months for the final verdict. however, while respecting the laws and the judiciary of india, it is important that india also respects the right to a trial within a reasonable time. especially for foreigners who have been waiting for their fate in india for almost 4 years. the unresolved issue of the shipowners must be a consistent agenda item in the eu-india dialogue until the issue is resolved. the next opportunity to do so is in the framework of the eu-india human rights dialogue and the eu-india summit. therefore, while eu-india relations are important and promoted in the interests of both parties, it must be remembered that the eu has an obligation to stand up for the interests of its citizens abroad and to ensure that they can return home to their loved ones as soon as possible.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner miguel arias cañete for his efforts, which are a very hopeful sign. but i would like to say that it is not business as usual: in fact, hesitations and ambiguity about this project are going to undermine the very foundations of this union – solidarity, energy independence and diversification. the question is: who benefits? most of all, russia will benefit from it. russia, which is going to strengthen its military control just at this moment in the baltic sea, and also some german big interests. my message to the german social democrats is to stop supporting this project, because it is clear that there is a big conflict between realpolitik and eu solidarity. we need legal clarity and unity about this as soon as possible.
in writing. – when it comes to nordstream 2, germany unfortunately places the short-term interests of its industry above those of its eu partners, above the eu’s energy union, and in the long run above the interests of its own citizens. i should not need to reiterate the examples which demonstrate that russia is not a reliable partner and doesn’t hesitate to wield energy as a weapon. earlier this week we adopted, with a large majority, jerzy buzek’s report on security of gas supply, which introduces a solidarity mechanism between member states in cases of gas-shortage emergencies. yet at the same time germany is busy undermining all these efforts put into the energy union by increasing its dependence on russian gas. this will have disastrous consequences for ukraine right now, but in the long-term german and eu citizens will also be subjected to the kremlin’s whims. furthermore, the fact that the european part of nordstream 2 is built by european companies cements our lock-in, and will lead to stranded assets in the event of the supply ceasing. before that, russia will be able to blackmail us, knowing that we need to keep buying to make up for the sunk costs of the new pipeline.
author. – mr president, i would like to say to the high representative that i join my colleague petras auštrevičius in supporting his view on the observation mission and greeting the cambodian opposition here, because their presence today is very important. just 11 days ago, opposition leader kem sokha was arrested and is facing charges of treason. we are very much concerned that cambodia has experienced no democratic change of government in 30 years, and that many opposition leaders have been imprisoned, now including two mps. our second concern is the muzzling of the independent media: only 10 days ago, the cambodian daily was forced to close due to high tax bills, and in recent weeks a number of radio stations were closed. so we call on the government to provide, before next year’s parliamentary elections, a fair democratic space for opposition so that elections could really reflect the will of the majority of the cambodian population.
author. – mr president, the latest figure on rohingyas fleeing ethnic cleansing in myanmar are staggering. out of around a million rohingyas, already nearly 400 000 have crossed the border to bangladesh, despite the hazardous circumstances on their way and the horrendous living conditions they meet upon arrival. at this rate, all of the rohingyas will either be in bangladesh or dead by the end of october. we must do what we can, and that is to say clearly that, if these atrocities do not stop, the european union will consider punitive sanctions and also consequences in the context of trade preferences that myanmar enjoys. losing valuable investments is the only thing that will make the myanmar army generals maybe understand that this cannot go on. in addition, humanitarian and medical aid must be provided to the camps in bangladesh immediately. we cannot waste a day anymore. we have been watching these atrocities going on too long.
madam president, i have been listening to this debate with extreme attention. i am not a specialist in divorce issues, as i have been living with my spouse almost as long as the uk has been in the eu and we do not have any thoughts of breaking up. however, the key to a harmonised and hateless divorce lies on the basis that both sides recognise their mistakes and do not blame it all on the other side. in my opinion, there is space for improvement in that respect on both sides of the british channel. finally, i would ask the british conservatives: please do not hire boris johnson as your defence lawyer, because he is so untypical of the british people: a man with no good manners. (applause)
mr president, i would say to the commissioner that moldova has certainly reached a crossroads. this is a warning, but it could yet become an incentive for hope and progress. political and social stability have been seriously undermined and, as has been pointed out, the lack of national consensus about the european road is a warning signal. we have been critical of the latest electoral law which, as the venice commission has warned, could favour the influence of oligarchs and disadvantage minorities and women. but, to be fair, this is not about the laws as such: it is about the possible misuse of a law in the short-term interests of political and economic groups. the truth is that moldova represents a warning of the long-term, devastating impact of foreign-imposed frozen conflict that the international community has not been willing or able to address. therefore, we should support the request for the moldovan government to include the withdrawal of russian troops on the general assembly’s agenda, because this promise, which should have been fulfilled 15 years ago, in 2002, is still unfulfilled. we certainly remain committed to supporting moldova, but we have to remind the moldovan authorities that granting micro-financial assistance has to be conditional on their meeting european and democratic standards for civil society.
in writing. early childbirth and forced marriage are violations of the right of the child and violence against women and girls. in developing countries, 1 in 3 girls is married before the age of 18, and 1 in 9 is married before the age of 15. in low- and middle-income countries, pregnancy and childbirth complications are the leading cause of death among girls aged 15 to 19. early and forced marriages are associated with high maternal mortality rates and usually also mean the end of a girl's education. this practice must be stopped and it must be a priority of the eu's external action in the field of women's rights and the promotion of human rights. it is also important to note that the problem is not only in third countries but also in the eu. the budget must provide funds for programmes to prevent child marriage, support third countries in the eradication of such practices and raise awareness through various campaigns. there are also special concerns about ensuring the protection of children among refugees and asylum seekers. host countries must ensure full access to education for child refugees and assist victims of child or forced marriage. i also believe that the eu has an obligation to find funding for the vacuum created by the us by re-introducing the so-called 'general silence' in the area of sexual and reproductive health.
mr president, the tallinn digital summit agreed on an inspiring agenda, and after that the estonian presidency concluded that the digital single market could be completed by 2018. that is in one year’s time. the eu’s biggest problem still is implementation: bringing to life the spirit of tallinn requires continued political determination to avoid returning to ‘business as usual’. incidentally, president macron, in his maiden speech, was surprisingly modest when he called just for strengthening of the digital market. today our job is not to limit ourselves anymore to eurospeak terms like ‘strengthening’ or ‘deepening’ but rather to complete tasks on which we have all agreed. it is also important clearly to understand that the single european cyberspace and single cybersecurity market do not merely constitute a lofty goal but could and should be become a reality in eight years’ time. may i express my full support to the spanish constitution and spain’s integrity.
madam president, for over one month now this parliament has failed to fulfil its duty under rule 20 of our rules of procedure, which sets out an imperative requirement. i quote: ‘if it becomes necessary for the president, a vice-president or a quaestor to be replaced, a successor shall be elected’. former vice-president, ms gáll-pelcz, left the parliament for the court of auditors in september this year, and i wish to announce to this chamber, to the democratically-elected representatives of the european people, that i have fulfilled the criteria for nomination, according to rule 15(1). i ask the president to put the vacant post to the vote tomorrow, in order to stop embarrassing this parliament with indecisiveness, and to give the epp group enough time to nominate their candidate. if they continue not to be interested in this important parliamentary post, i will humbly accept the seat of vice-president by acclamation. these times are scary, colleagues, and europe needs leadership, not vacancies and empty-seat policies.
in writing. i am very concerned that such ancient cultural peoples as the spanish and the catalans have reached the point where they need the european union's intervention. regardless of whether the ppe and s&d pretend that there is no problem, it does in fact exist, and that is why i am calling on presidents juncker and tusk, and unfortunately also on the estonian prime minister, who is currently holding the rotating eu presidency, to present a rapid and decisive mediation plan which could be submitted to the european parliament by 23 october this year at the latest.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'd like to speak in my native language. in addition, the regular audit report is very useful, since only three per cent of the funds are used for the costs justified by the number of possible tests. see on tore and julgustav. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and since its first reading in 2004, the european institutions have adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the commission shall be assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the member states, the european parliament and the council. the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the commission's annual report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and the environment, published in the official journal of the european communities, is the first of a series of reports which will be published in the form of a report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment and the environment. please check your audit. the european union is the only institution in the world which has the power to make decisions on the basis of the law of the member states. share it!
author. – mr president, albinos in africa face widespread discrimination and persecution. last year alone, 172 albinos were murdered and almost 300 were attacked in hunts for their body parts. in malawi, a new wave of killings and persecution has started in the current year, while the local justice system has failed to protect this vulnerable minority from criminal gangs. we call on the malawian authorities to their utmost to protect albino citizens, who clearly deserve strong state guarantees for safety, dignity and equality. i call on the malawian government to follow the positive examples of tanzania and mozambique, where action programmes have been started to promote public awareness and education and to protect co-citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the situation in crimea tends sometimes to be overshadowed by other developments, but we cannot let this happen. according to the latest un report, the human rights situation in crimea has significantly deteriorated under russian occupation. there are arbitrary arrests and detentions, enforced disappearances, ill-treatment and torture. also, the imposition of russian citizenship has affected tens of thousands of people. persons holding a residence permit and no russian federation citizenship in crimea cannot own agricultural land, vote or be elected, register a religious community, apply to hold a public meeting, hold positions in the public administration, and so on. the russian government has an obligation, as an occupying power, to uphold human rights for all and effectively investigate alleged torture, abductions and killings. but of course, the only fundamental solution lies in russia ending the occupation of crimea and returning it to ukraine.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there has been a lot of talk around cadmium, but i will not talk about cadmium: this proposal is not only setting the limits, it is also about opening new possibilities for european producers. up until now, only mineral fertilisers have benefited from the ce marking and free access to the single market. today, they are still the most widely used in europe, but alongside the traditional products more and more companies are looking for new solutions. this partly reflects the global trend in rising environmental consciousness on the one hand, and a drive for increased efficiency on the other. companies around the world realise that they need to find ways to do more with less. in europe, a lot of effort has been put into innovation. there is a strong drive in the fertiliser sector to find new sources of raw materials and make products that are more targeted and less wasteful. often the solutions that are found are at the very forefront of science. by extending the scope of this regulation to such products, we will put in place the necessary framework to maximise the innovative potential of the fertiliser industry. unified european standards will give producers a clear set of targets to aim for. removing national barriers from the market will give them access to enough customers to make their investments pay off. moreover, by asking the commission to keep looking for new component materials that could be added to the regulation, we recognise that a lot of the potential of this sector is still untapped. we should not only reward existing animation by granting better access to the single market, we should also encourage further research by ensuring the possibility of updating the regulation in the future. by allowing the commission to revise the regulation, we are telling producers to think outside the box and to keep looking for new solutions. if we follow these principles, we can create legislation that is truly supportive of innovation.
in writing. – the positively pragmatic approach by the estonian presidency has focused on the main issues the eu has to tackle (digitalisation and migration among others) and on providing practical suggestions to meet the challenges and needs. the spirit of the tallinn digital summit finds a strong response in the conclusions, endorsing the list of conclusions and suggestions made by the estonian prime minister. specially important is the call for boosting the development of e-governance in europe, following the already existing principles of estonian e-society, such as once-only, one-stop government, and ensuring accessibility. in a joint effort between all the institutions, this has to be put into practice in the shortest time possible, as it would provide the best service to citizens. it is vital that current negotiations on legislation, i.a. on geo-blocking, the audiovisual media services directive (avmsd), and future negotiations for example on e-privacy, are led in a practical, consensual manner to enable real solutions in near future. the digital single market should mean losing all digital barriers for citizens and businesses. i look forward to seeing the free movement of data as the fifth freedom decided at the next council.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i am glad to take the floor to share my agreement with the position taken so far by this parliament. our group very much welcomes the increase to the commission’s budget, with eur 2 billion in commitments and eur 3.3 billion in payments and other good things mentioned by rapporteur mr mureşan earlier in his speech. of course, one can argue that the budget is still not green enough, and i hope that next year the commission will come up with a better proposal, but in that context, i would like to underline the great help and understanding given by the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (alde) group and in particular by mr deprez and ms jäätteenmäki to improve their understanding in the budget to address the climate change policies. i will not pursue in this debate my stance on some of the other institutions’ budgets and their questionable techniques in assuring the funds they want. mr ashworth as a co—rapporteur mentioned them all, and i am a man who remembers – or perhaps in this context, does not forget – so that is why i will wholeheartedly support the position of mr ashworth taken in this aspect. and of course in the end of my intervention i have an appeal for the council presidency: however small and pressed you feel there between berlin, paris, rome, madrid and warsaw, always remember the national epic of the estonian nation: ‘kalevipoeg’. „ülemaks kui hõbevara, kallimaks kui kullakoormad tuleb tarkus tunnistada.“
the murder of daphne caruana galizia is shocking. freedom of the media must be guaranteed in the territory of each eu member state, without any journalist having to fear for his or her safety. daphne caruana galizie's work was fatal, proving once again that, unfortunately, investigative journalism can be a dangerous job even on eu soil. the maltese government must take this case with all seriousness and responsibility. in 2017, 42 journalists were killed worldwide, two of them in the eu member states.
in writing. – it is tragic that in this day and age we still need to condemn the killing of journalists, and reaffirm our commitment to the freedom of the press. we no longer live in the medieval ages where people with power simply killed their opponents or people they did not like. these kinds of actions have no place in our societies, not in russia, nor in the european union. media freedom is essential for a democracy to function; corruption will flourish if there is no one to cast a light on it. this barbaric crime was committed to silence a particular journalist, but we must not forget the wider implications of this murder: the chilling effect on other journalists. journalists should not have to fear for their lives, otherwise the perpetrators and oppressors get an even bigger victory, and democracy with the rest of society suffers. this is why the investigation has to be conducted with utmost seriousness, in order to bring the perpetrators to justice as soon as possible.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs adopted 45 suggestions into this resolution, but i only have time for a few remarks. unemployment rates have not yet returned to pre-crisis levels and the youth unemployment rate remains unacceptably high. labour market conditions and performance still show substantial differences across member states. poverty remains high as well. we need continuous efforts to achieve a balance between the economic and social dimensions of the european semester policies. the efficiency and effectiveness of labour market policies should be increased. the committee calls for the continuation of the youth employment initiative while taking into account the latest findings of the court of auditors’ special report. we need an integrated anti-poverty strategy. in this regard, the committee underlined the role of member states’ minimum income schemes. we require investment in skills development, particularly digital skills and programming. otherwise, the union’s competitive position may be undermined. better skills-matching and improved mutual recognition of qualifications is necessary to address skills shortages and mismatches.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to thank all those who voted for the decision and, above all, i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their work. it was very hard work. we met with a lot of people from different sides. we felt how strongly citizens were expecting that this mandate would be given, and we did our best. also, this is my last day in parliament. i thank all of you for this very enriching experience and it is my wish that the european parliament will stand firm in defending democracy, liberal values and a future for europe. thank you. (loud applause)
mr president, today i think we need to state some key facts. first, the persecution of millions of people because of their christian beliefs is widespread and is increasing. second, christians are the most persecuted religion in the world: 75% of religiously motivated violence is carried out against christians. persecution has intensified in many countries such as china, iran, india, nigeria and others. third, special attention needs to be paid to the situation and future of christians in iraq and syria. today, despite the defeat inflicted on daesh, christians there face an uncertain future and further discrimination. in iraq the number of christians has plummeted five times in ten years, to less than 300 000. what do we need to do? first, to keep the persecution of christians high on the eu agenda, mainstreaming it in relations with all third countries. second, to generate awareness in europe that christianity is part of the european spiritual and cultural legacy and that this legacy has formed the european values and identity. third, we need concrete commitment for the reconstruction of christian homes on the nineveh plains and elsewhere and also to provide direct access to eu humanitarian aid for christian churches. and fourth, we need to do everything to prevent situations whereby new conflicts in the middle east will force the last remnants of christians to leave their ancient homes.
mr president, i would like to welcome the estonian presidency’s endeavours to reaffirm a united and strong commitment for the eastern partnership, because what we really need is to inject new dynamism and set a clear long—term political vision for this system, because association agreements do not necessarily constitute a final goal. therefore, i would say that the summit should knowledge very clearly the european aspirations of these nations, including sometimes a right to apply for eu membership. i should encourage also the european commission and european investment bank to agree on a long—term strategic investment bank, especially for ukraine and also the other two association agreement countries, accompanied by a necessary support mechanism. finally, i shall support the establishment of the special trust fund for ukraine, moldova and georgia and hold a donors’ conference to support ukrainians’ humanitarian needs. i think they should constitute priorities for the next conference.
i am pleased that estonia, as the presidency of the european union, has always been a unanimous supporter of strengthening freedoms and the rule of law in the eastern partnership countries. at the same time, several eastern partnership countries continue to be concerned about unresolved conflicts: russia's continued aggression in crimea; the war in eastern ukraine; south ossetia and abkhazia in georgia; transnistria and nagorno-karabakh in moldova. these conflicts are a major obstacle to the development of our eastern partnership countries and also threaten european security. it is therefore essential to maintain the european union's common approach and pressure to resolve these conflicts that still exist in europe. the eastern partnership summit in november should also send a clear message that the european union expects substantial progress in eradicating corruption, fighting organised crime and strengthening the rule of law and good governance. reforms must be pursued and the principle of 'more for more' must be respected. reforms to strengthen the rule of law and democracy in our eastern partnership societies must also be undertaken, first and foremost, for the benefit of those societies themselves.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to thank all colleagues for the exciting votes for the vice-presidencies. it was a great feeling to be part of the olympic games again. while i do know how much we hate rapporteurs’ two-minute speeches before a valuable voting time, in this case it would be wrong if i were silent about one issue, which is the belgian candidate. in the committee, we had the vote which did not support him because he was accused of some violations of rules on misbehaviour or something like that. but we are not the court here, and unless the person has not been proven guilty, he is innocent and we should keep that in mind. on the other hand, we have the report adopted in 2014 by this parliament, written by ms inés ayala sender, which basically says that we do not recommend than two more periods in office at the court of auditors in luxembourg. on this occasion, this candidate is applying for a third. if you want to vote in favour, use my first excuse, if you want to vote, against use my second. the other concern which there has been in the court of auditors is a gender balance. it is regrettable, but very big and old member states have never considered promoting a woman candidate. it is not only for finland, estonia, bulgaria and other small states to promote gender balance. it is also for italy, spain, hungary, etc. (i did not mention poland today, they got their share earlier in the morning). finally, the thing is that we should also consider if we want our former colleagues, politicians, to become members of the court of auditors. if we do, we have to be consistent. if we prefer to have professional auditors and accountants there to inspect our everyday dealings with financial matters, we should be also consistent. what we have is a mix. sometimes bigger political groups take one deal, sometimes the other, depending on a candidate’s political background. we should come up with a decision – what do we really want? otherwise, as a rapporteur, i would encourage you to vote according to your conscience and make the best possible decision for europe.
mr president, each tree should be assessed by its fruits. one hundred years of communism in practice equals roughly 100 million victims. it was, and still is, a system which is based on two pillars – violence and lies. from karl marx to lenin, all ruling communist leaders have advocated and practiced only one way of action: total liquidation of their real or supposed adversaries by systematic violence. after 1917, the bolsheviks could keep their power only through a reign of terror. here, our socialist colleague was absolutely mistaken, claiming that the start of the coup was glorious. in the first two years of bolshevik power, 300 000 political executions were carried out. in two years, 100 concentration camps were in place. it was from them, 13 years later, that the nazis took over the best practices. soviet communist rulers were in a permanent state of war, mainly against their own nation, but also against the rest of the world. all this equals large-scale and systematic crimes against humanity. the problem today is the inequality of victims. those who have suffered under communist terror have not yet seen an internationally binding commitment to ‘never again’. i think today it is high time to unite ourselves in equal respect and solidarity with victims of all terrorist regimes. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to remind my colleagues that we have representatives of eight communist parties elected to this chamber and we have pretty good relations with some communist regimes such as, for instance, china. the october revolution is a very complex phenomenon, and this year even the kremlin decided not to commemorate officially the anniversary of the october revolution. in spite of that, some of my colleagues used the events of 1917 as a pretext to demonise contemporary russia. we really have a lot of problems with this state, but please could we maybe limit ourselves to more urgent issues like ukraine, crimea and the eastern partnership, for instance. we are all politicians, and as politicians we have to understand that each word has its price. and if we are not preparing for a war with russia the day after tomorrow, we have to save at least some opportunities for future dialogue. i strongly believe that today’s debate does not serve that purpose.
in writing. the anniversary of the great october socialist revolution is certainly a cause for remembrance. mainly because we in europe can't figure out what's going on in president vladimir putin's head. on the one hand, he'd be like a czech born to felix dzerzhinsky by the brushstrokes of october's fire. on the other hand, it seems that he wants to be the heir to nicholas ii, the tsar and emperor. although it was the october revolution that extinguished the candle of life for the tsar and his family. so we have to deal with a neighbor who's schizophrenic. i would also add the responsibility of the current members of the european union. it is well known that lenin was led through the front by the german general staff. with the aim of weakening russia. but latvia is also responsible for the bolshevik forces, because it was the bolshevist latvian hunters who personally protected lenin and were the force that established the bolshevik deadly regime. and finally, if we have to debate here a hundred years later whether the october revolution was anything like that, then no doubt it had negative consequences that humanity still has to digest. and let's note that hitlerism and mussolini with general franco were made possible by the bolsheviks coming to power in russia.
madam president, the at-risk-of-poverty rate is unacceptably high in the eu at 24%. we face the phenomena of long-term unemployment and the working poor. i call on the commission to use more actively the european semester procedure to ensure full implementation of active labour market measures. regrettably too many country-specific recommendations are not fulfilled by member states. i support the idea to create an eu human capital fund as a more flexible and efficient instrument compared to the european social fund. in my opinion the fund should support policies required by the european semester process, and backup activities related to the european pillar of social rights. inequalities and poverty make our societies vulnerable and they jeopardise the overall competitiveness of the eu economy. i strongly believe that social minimum standards at eu level are a solution to the problem of extreme inequality and poverty, including the working poor, and these common standards should include at least minimum income agreements, adequate unemployment benefits and certain public services.
in writing. the eu and new zealand are like-minded countries with similar views on global issues and a number of common objectives. in order to better achieve common objectives, it is appropriate to enhance cooperation and dialogue between them. the conclusion of the eu-new zealand partnership and cooperation agreement aims to strengthen the partnership between the two, to increase cooperation in various fields and to enhance exchanges. this is the case, for example, in the fields of foreign affairs and security, such as weapons of mass destruction, the fight against terrorism and the promotion of peace and security in the world. the agreement also provides for increased cooperation in economic and trade matters and in scientific fields.
author. – mr president, the situation of human, civil and political rights in sudan continues to be worrying. especially alarming is the state of freedom of expression. there are numerous reports about security services intervening in the activities of journalists, intimidating and censoring them. mohamed zine al-abidine is just one of them. he has been taken to court for criticising the alleged corruption of president al-bashir’s family. the editor of the newspaper al-tayar was fined for publishing his article. last year there were at least 44 cases of confiscated publications and the publication of three newspapers was suspended. we urge the sudanese authorities to end all forms of harassment and intimidation of journalists, and immediately review charges against mohamed zine al-abidine. more importantly, the sudanese government is called upon to implement in a good spirit fundamental human rights, including freedom of expression. i thank commissioner stylianides for raising the issue of fundamental rights in sudan during his recent visit to this country, but more needs to be done. the european union should be mainstreaming human rights in our relations with third countries at all times.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, europe is famous for its cultural pluralism and openness. cultural ties with china are based on good political and economic relations. in the case of china, the link between tourism and cultural interests is obvious. therefore the idea of carrying out the eu—china tourism year is welcomed. should the eu-china tourism year and the european year of cultural heritage coincide in time? i believe that this is possible in so far as the commission can ensure their adequate organisation. although both initiatives are related to culture, their content will be different. in addition, the synergy between these activities is possible and desirable. china and the eu are regional and world leaders with ancient cultural traditions that can mutually enrich our people. so i do not think that the eu-china tourism year can somehow prevent the promotion of european identity and values. our similarities and our differences will be much more visible against the backdrop of our asian partner. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. you know i spoke about this yesterday. for me it is a bit hypocritical. yesterday, i reminded my colleagues that we have representatives of eight communist parties here and that we have pretty good relations with china’s communist regime.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, it is always a great pleasure to take the floor on budgetary affairs at the very end of the budget procedure and praise all those whose efforts enable us to enjoy the results. we have reached an agreement which could be better, but let’s pay tribute to the estonian presidency. madam president, may i ask you to add the names of mr maasikas, mr marksoo and the absent mr kivine to the minutes of our meeting protocols, if possible with golden letters? i can assure you that my attention will also be on the implementation of those budgets. i have a special interest in the budget of the other institutions. it is surprising how many savings institutions can manage to make in one year. while mr deprez pointed out the lack of resources at the court of justice and our mean approach towards their demands, on the other hand, my nemesis this year seems to be the court of auditors. if we look at the explanations for transfers of appropriations, for example, we’ll see that they forgot that the court of auditors was established 40 years ago, and asked for a transfer of eur 1 million ‘to entertain the members of the court’, in other words to have a party. this is not something that europe’s citizens expect us to do. i am not going to criticise any further – you know my attitudes – but i would love mr ashworth, mr deprez and others to give next year’s rapporteurs the data on all of the transfers so they can make some sense of them in the end. let me finish with a quote from sir paul mccartney, namely that we should not quarrel about money because ‘money can’t buy me love’. this is to provoke mr farage, because he might have a different opinion.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, progress has been made on the energy union but there is still a lot to do to call the european union also the energy union. when we look at the assessment of 2016 on discrimination of cross-border flows, the results are quite striking. on 31 border directions, less than 51% of the benchmark capacity was offered to the market. some borders even have zero percent, for instance between germany and poland, or no more than 12% between germany and denmark. many member states, including my own, still do not take interconnections into account in their capacity assessment nor energy security. but then we see plans for expansion of the nord stream pipeline, which will increase our dependence on russian gas, or we see some countries keeping up with the subsidies for fossil fuel production. regional cooperation, looking at the capacity across borders, is crucial to improve the efficiency of our energy systems. when it comes down to details, from infrastructure projects to giving decision-making powers, to regional cooperation, progress still remains a struggle. we have to look at the reasons why countries look at it this way, but we still have to push interconnections and cooperation between member states.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, forgive me if i skip the introductions and go straight to the point. the war in yemen must end. in times of dire humanitarian crisis world-wide, from syria to myanmar, yemen still continues to be the worst of all. and the situation, unfortunately, is getting worse. the current escalation is undermining the prospects of a political settlement, which is the only sustainable solution. we immediately condemned the launch of a missile targeting riyadh, and we understand saudi arabia’s security concerns. at the same time, the new measures taken by the coalition are having a severe impact on the delivery of life-saving assistance. commercial goods cannot enter the areas beyond government control. most yemenis no longer have the means to get food or fuel. this escalation has worsened an already dire humanitarian situation. today 19 million people are severely affected by the conflict – 19 million people! more than 7 million are on the verge of famine. yemen is also facing the largest cholera outbreak in living memory. almost one million suspected cases and more than 2 000 deaths from cholera have been recorded. the numbers are shocking. it has become almost impossible for aid agencies to provide the necessary assistance to the people in need. despite international pressure and condemnation, international humanitarian law continues to be disregarded. markets, hospitals, clinics, schools, factories and hundreds of private residences have been hit by air strikes. densely populated cities continue to be under siege. this war is not only causing mass starvation in yemen. it is also creating a war economy that benefits only the smugglers and traffickers. all kinds of illegal traffickers, including those involved in arms trafficking, find their way into the country via well-established irregular routes. and beyond the humanitarian tragedy, the security situation is also getting worse. the recent missile attack directed at riyadh shows that three years of war have made saudi arabia, together with the whole region, less secure. meanwhile, al-qa’ida and daesh have found fertile ground in the southeast of the country, precisely at the moment when they have been forced out of iraq and syria. this is all happening a few miles from one of the busiest maritime corridors in the world, on the route connecting the mediterranean and the indian ocean. more than 10% of global trade transits through this corridor. at a time of rising tensions in the middle east, we cannot afford the risk of a larger conflict. that would be an even greater tragedy, not only for the region but also for the world. it is a global threat. this is the situation we face, and we, the european union, are on the front line of the world to address both the humanitarian and the political crisis. firstly, we are doing everything we can to address humanitarian needs. we have privately and publicly called for access to be granted to humanitarian workers. i went myself to riyadh last month, together with the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs (ocha) and the international organisation for migration (iom), to discuss ways to improve humanitarian aid delivery in yemen. our humanitarian advocacy was intensified with the adoption of common humanitarian messages in 2017. foreign affairs council conclusions on yemen were adopted in april this year. two diplomatic démarches, on access and delivery of humanitarian relief, were delivered to all the parties to the conflict, in march and in august. we are, again, among the top humanitarian donors. the un human rights council decided in september to establish an international group of experts to examine alleged violations of human rights and international law. we fully support this initiative to guarantee accountability and prevent new abuses. my second point is that humanitarian aid is crucial but it is not enough. as we have said many times, unfortunately, for humanitarian problems we need political solutions. the people of yemen cannot wait to get sanitation or electricity. there are a number of early recovery projects that can be started right now, even before a final settlement is agreed upon. we are already working with our partners on health, nutrition and local development programmes. such early recovery can also provide us with some extra leverage to push for peace and conciliation. thirdly, and maybe the most important point, the european union is working intensively to help find a political solution to the crisis. we are urging the whole international community to work towards a resumption of the political track. we are encouraging the parties to reach a political solution under un auspices. we have engaged directly with all parties to build confidence through informal initiatives, particularly at local level. in coordination with the un special envoy and his team, we have explored the possibility of local ceasefires based on mutual trust. this would also lay the groundwork for a resumption of peace talks. we urgently need to revive peace negotiations. every day, the humanitarian situation gets worse, the security situation also gets worse and a political solution becomes more difficult to achieve. along with federica mogherini, the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs, we are using all possible channels to restart the political track. we are sure that we can also count on parliament’s support to bring this tragedy an end. and what we are talking about here is a tragedy, with many tragic aspects.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i can only agree with the commissioner’s statement. yemen has become a key battlefield for the iranian-saudi arabian regional conflict. the country is now fragmented and is experiencing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world today, but the immediate victims are the people of yemen. systematic destruction of infrastructure, civilian targets and the blocking of ports have resulted in a truly catastrophic situation where two thirds, or 28 million, of the population are suffering from dramatic shortages of food and water. in fact, starvation and diseases have become a much greater killer than the war itself. just one fact: it is estimated that 130 children die each day from famine. i am glad that the commission and parliament are united in condemning indiscriminate airstrikes against civilians. we also condemned the launching by houthi rebels of iranian-provided missiles against saudi arabia and the united arab emirates. the situation has become really explosive, as the conflict is spilling over the borders of yemen. the key priority today is to allow un relief ships to enter the ports and provide immediate aid to those who are in need. yes, two days ago, something happened; one port and sanaa airport were reopened, but it is far from being enough. the eu and international actors must work together to bring the main opponents to negotiations. the eu needs an urgent and integrated strategy for yemen, accompanied by a new push for a yemen peace initiative under the auspices of the un. today, there can be no more excuses for delaying united international action to end this human and political disaster.
in writing. the situation in yemen is catastrophic. 20.7 million people need food assistance, 7 million of them face an emergency, 2.2 million children suffer from acute malnutrition and every ten minutes a child dies from preventable causes. since 2015, more than 8,000 people have been killed, 60% of them civilians. according to save the children, 130 children die every day in yemen, millions of children are unable to go to school. there's a cholera epidemic in the country, and a humanitarian catastrophe continues due to the air and sea blockade. these are dodgy numbers. it is essential to ensure immediate access for humanitarian aid. efforts to reach a political agreement must continue, and the un's leading role in this is important, as is the eu's support for it. it is also important that the perpetrators of war crimes be brought before the international criminal court.
in writing. – while equality and non-discrimination are at the core of the disability strategy, we must not forget that there still is a long way to go, and that every day that we have not achieved the goals is a day where disabled people are in effect unequal. simple things that the rest of us take for granted in our everyday lives remain out of reach for people with disabilities. while i welcome the progress that has been made, i remain deeply disappointed that to this day the marrakech treaty has not been fully ratified and implemented by the contracting parties, even though it was adopted in 2013. we must be significantly more ambitious in securing the rights of a group of people who are among the most vulnerable in our society.
the commission. i'll be with you in a moment. we have had extensive discussions and we believe that a decision is on the table today which is acceptable to all the institutions. that is why we are campaigning for it, and i am grateful for the constructive work i have seen in the last few weeks. i am confident that the present decision and the present request have laid a good foundation.
council. – mr president, honourable members, i congratulate you on concluding your vote on the budget for the european union for the year 2018. the agreement was reached at the conciliation committee meeting on 17 and 18 november. on behalf of our budget negotiator, mr kivine, his team, and the whole estonian presidency, i would once more like to thank the chair of the committee on budgets, jean arthuis, and rapporteurs mureşan, ashworth and geier, as well as all the members of the european parliament who have worked hard and in a constructive spirit to reach this agreement.
madam president, it is about updating the report according to the latest developments. the text runs: ‘ports of hodeidah and saleef, as well as the airport of sanaa, are still subject to the blockade’. we have to add now: ‘but have been partially reopened’. it is a small, but positive, development four days ago, and i think this should be noted.
as a member of the farmers' organisation, i would like to thank all the parties who have made this a great success. it gives farmers the confidence that with the complex bureaucracy of the european union, it is possible to make a difference. so, thank you to all of you who have done this great work! (the speaker indicated that he wished to ask a question on the blue card.)
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for the opportunity for this debate on the eu—kazakhstan enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement, signed by the high representative, federica mogherini, two years ago. this agreement is the very first of this kind in central asia and reflects the new level of ambition in our relations with one of the eu’s closest partners in the region. our relationship with the central asian countries has never been stronger. the eu and our partners in central asia share many common objectives: regional peace and stability, fighting terrorism, fostering the rule of law, increasing prosperity and trade. the reinforced cooperation between the eu and kazakhstan is an excellent example of how to advance in practice the goals and interests shared by both sides. to begin with, the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement provides for a new level in the quality of our economic cooperation. the eu has become kazakhstan’s first trade partner, representing over one third of its external trade, and also kazakhstan’s first foreign investor. the agreement promotes a better regulatory environment for economic operators in areas such as trade in services, the establishment and operation of companies, capital movements, raw materials, government procurement and intellectual property rights. we appreciate kazakhstan’s commitment to promote the green economy with ambitious targets for economic diversification and investments in energy efficiency. these areas represent significant opportunities for european companies. the enhanced partnership reflects this progress in our energy cooperation, as this is the first time that we have concluded a chapter on raw materials and energy in a non—preferential agreement with an oil-producing country with rules going beyond wto and energy charter treaty commitments. we have not only built strong economic ties with kazakhstan, we are also keen on consolidating our cooperation in other fields such as in nuclear non—proliferation, further reforms towards pluralism and democracy, and also to enhance the mobility of people between the two regions. in international relations, kazakhstan has become an increasingly important partner in the promotion of peace and security. it provides an essential contribution to the implementation of the eu strategy for central asia, notably in the eu’s regional cooperation programmes and platforms. finally, we should not forget that democratic reforms play a crucial role too. the agreement puts a strong emphasis on democracy and the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as civil society cooperation, including on the involvement of civil society in public policy-making. on 29 november, the eu and kazakhstan held their ninth human rights dialogue. the eu has been promoting a more active role for civil society in the implementation of the agreement. ahead of the dialogue, we have held consultations with civil society representatives, both in brussels and in kazakhstan, and we have discussed specific recommendations from civil society that were then reflected in the dialogue with the government of kazakhstan. moreover, just before the dialogue, our eu delegation in astana visited an imprisoned civil society activist, max bokayev. the eu discussed his situation, as well as several other individual cases of human rights activists and journalists, during the dialogue. notably, it was confirmed to us that former head of the union of journalists, seitqazy mataev, who was sentenced to six years in prison last year, was granted early release this month. finally, the specific issue of trade unionists and the independence of trade unions were specifically discussed. kazakhstan committed to amend its law on trade unions to bring it in line with the agreement provisions and the conventions of the international labour organization. the eu also finances a substantial programme that contributes to judicial reforms and supports the rule of law in kazakhstan. in all of its actions, the eu seeks to be a stabilising factor and will continue to put forward the view that non—extremist political pluralism and broad participation are the best foundations for creating, maintaining or strengthening the resilience and security of central asian societies. on other aspects of our mutual relations with kazakhstan, we broaden our political dialogues on trade, customs, energy, transport, environment and climate change. we are now further enhancing the humans rights dialogue and consultation with civil society representatives. more exchanges of views will follow during the cooperation council with foreign minister abdrakhmanov, planned for 26 february in brussels. let me conclude by stating that the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement has started to bear fruit and to produce successful common projects. this agreement with kazakhstan is an excellent precedent for our relations with other countries in central asia. negotiations for an enhanced agreement with kyrgyzstan will start later this month, and we are hopeful for enhanced relations with uzbekistan. the eu will continue to press for more open markets, both in the wto and in our bilateral agreements, to spur economic growth and trade, as well as democratisation and sustainable development in central asia.
mr president, madam commissioner, i must say, i was inspired and impressed by colleague jaakonsaari’s presentation. i think it should be seen as a model of our approach toward third countries, balancing economic interests and human values. therefore, we should say that in kazakhstan there’s still much to be worried about – persecution of opposition and journalists – and therefore i think the eu has to stand up first for european values and condition enhanced cooperation on convincing progress in the field of human rights. such progress should include fully providing freedom of media, of expression and association. also it’s crucial for the credibility of kazakhstan to allow freedom of religion to be exercised equally for all denominations, not only for orthodox and muslim communities. therefore i call for our high representative to act decisively and forcefully for the release of all political prisoners.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, dear colleagues, afghanistan and its people are a priority for the european union and we definitely care about peace in that country, and the possibility of a national renaissance. the brussels conference on afghanistan was a turning point in our cooperation. we europeans have stepped up our engagement with afghanistan, both financially and through a new diplomatic push with regional and international players. now, one year later, we can see progress in a number of areas. key achievements include the national strategy for combating corruption, and also the successful work of the citizens’ charter, women’s economic empowerment national priority plan, and managing migration in the country. progress has also been made on budget and fiscal reform; and the government has taken several measures to create a more competitive, export—oriented and job—creating economy. but the work is not finished. the security situation remains fragile. there have been a number of attacks in kabul and other areas against security forces and places of worship affecting innocent civilians, including women and children. we are alarmed by the high level of violence and the number of civilian casualties – and, frankly, reconciliation and sustainable peace are the absolute priority for afghanistan and also for us as the european union – but a peace process can only be successful if it is led and owned by the afghans themselves. the afghan government can count on the eu to be a partner in its search for peace. we will not stop working to create the right environment towards a negotiated settlement, including through the work of the recently appointed eu special envoy for afghanistan. we want to support the country in the areas where it needs it the most. and precisely to discuss these priorities, last february we have signed a cooperation agreement on partnership and development with the afghan government. the cooperation agreement is a political commitment to set up a constant dialogue on all the issues we care about, from the economy to migration, from women’s empowerment to human rights. first, we are with the government as it tries to bolster the country’s fragile economy. this includes support to the rural economy, but also to the fight against drugs as well as illegal mining. helping to strengthen afghanistan’s regional connectivity is also quite important for us. second, there can be no sustainable development when human rights and fundamental freedoms are not respected. whilst some progress has been achieved in this field, a lot still needs to be done to improve women’s and children’s rights, to abolish the death penalty, to prevent torture and ill—treatment, to guarantee access to justice and the freedom of expression and to support human rights defenders. the development of afghanistan also requires women and girls to be able to contribute in full to the country’s social, economic and political life, as well as to the future peace process. so we are working to empower women in afghanistan – helping girls go to school, training policewomen, and supporting innovative projects by female entrepreneurs. third point, we have started a comprehensive dialogue with afghanistan on migration. let us be clear on this: managing human mobility is an interest we share with the afghan people. we both want the afghan youth to find better opportunities at home. we both want to prevent that the people of afghanistan risk their lives in dangerous journeys across the world. we both want also that those who return home can have the opportunity to a better life. to this end, we have already mobilised almost eur 200 million to ensure the returnees’ reintegration into society, and we will continue to work in the framework of the joint way forward (jwf), a common political engagement for managing migration in a sustainable way, based on solidarity and dialogue. finally, we are working to strengthen democracy in the country, and also the rule of law and promoting good governance. part of this work is the fight against corruption. the afghan government has stepped up its anti-corruption measures and adopted in october a national anti-corruption strategy. implementation of this strategy is now what truly matters. we also as the european union continue to support the civilian aspects of the security sector reform: a new police advisory project will be launched soon. next year, in 2018, afghanistan is expected to hold parliamentary and district elections, followed by presidential elections in 2019. these elections need to be transparent, credible and inclusive, including for women. the afghan authorities still need to implement a thorough electoral reform to ensure the trust of the electoral stakeholders in the process. we have already committed around eur 19 million to support and accompany a democratic electoral process. my dear colleagues, the afghan people deserve democracy and human rights; they deserve peace and prosperity. the european union will continue to work with its partners in the afghan government to achieve this. it is not an easy goal. at the same time, we will further develop our engagement with our international partners, to make afghanistan and our common region more peaceful and more prosperous. our commitment to afghanistan and its people is here to stay.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the eu and its member states have cooperated with afghanistan since 2001 in a joint effort to counter the terrorist surge and create the conditions for stability and sustainable development. without a stable and secure afghanistan, there can be no peace and stability in the region as a whole. it has proved a difficult and controversial but also a rewarding task, with encouraging progress in some areas like the economy and education, and renewed problems in others. recently, security has been weakened by the increased terrorist activities of the taliban and the resurgence of al—qaeda and isis groups. last year, there were about 600 000 newly displaced persons internally. our message today is that there is no alternative to the continuation of the strong international engagement under the auspices of the un. the eu is an important and constructive part of that engagement. it is also crucial to keep the 39 nation nato—led resolute support mission operating as it is vital for building and strengthening afghanistan’s security forces and institutions. second, striking out the financing of terrorism. the continued production and trade of opium has a devastating impact not only domestically, but also for security internationally. only an all—inclusive afghan-led peace and reconciliation process will be a viable way towards a sustainable resolution of the conflict, and i would draw attention to the need to include disarmament and the reintegration of former insurgents as part of that.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the situation in myanmar is horrific. the rohingya people are being killed and repressed, their rights denied, their homes burnt, people are starving and stuck at the border and those that have managed to flee to bangladesh are in dire need of help. the killings and violence must stop immediately. those responsible must be held accountable by international tribunal. even though an agreement has been signed between bangladesh and myanmar, more is needed. before any rohingya refugees can return, there must be credible assurances that they can do so voluntarily, safely and under full un oversight. landmines must be removed immediately, if needed with the help of the international community. there needs to be a time frame for the provision of citizenship rights. monitoring of the situation of the rohingyas in myanmar by human rights bodies and helping them by ngos and relief agencies should be allowed. humanitarian aid must continue, the eu, its member states and the international community must increase financial and material support for the refugees and their accommodation. and we need to increase the pressure on myanmar. the european union should adopt punitive sanctions against those responsible for human rights abuses in myanmar, prolong the existing arms embargo and suspend trade preferences and the negotiations on the eu-myanmar investment treaty. one more thought: the role of aung san suu kyi has been extremely disappointing. we should seriously start a discussion on the possibility of reversing international awards – the nobel prize, the sakharov prize – in these kinds of situations. it makes no sense that a person that has received such an honorary award is now also responsible for ethnic cleansing.
mr president, common eu action is needed to safeguard europe’s security, tackle complex challenges, protect its interests and its citizens, and to defend its values. eu defence cooperation is necessary and the timing is right for this. that is why yesterday’s decision by the council to adopt the decision establishing pesco is of the utmost importance. it creates the much-needed opportunity for 25 member states to work together on defence projects, to cooperate more in defence and security, to invest in shared projects, and to enhance the operational readiness and contribution of their armed forces. cyber defence has become one of the most critical issues in debates about defence modernisation and europe’s common defence efforts. this needs cooperation and it is good that the newly established pesco foresees projects in the cyber defence domain. in addition, joint training exercises between the eu member states are vital in the area of cyber defence to build trust and understanding of possible cyber threats and challenges, as demonstrated by the training organised by the estonian presidency. the eu needs to have a clear plan that encompasses eu—nato cooperation on cyber defence, cyber defence training and exercises, the promotion of civil military cooperation and the applicability of international law to cyberspace.
madam president, i would like to say to ms mogherini that these impressive and constructive reports are first of all about implementation. for that, our foreign policies need to be based on fundamental values. mainstreaming human rights and eu values in relations with third countries, and making any progress in economic and political relations conditional on a convincing improvement in partner countries’ human rights records, should be a key element of the cfsp. there is, for example, a striking imbalance from that perspective in current iran-eu relations. second, a credible common policy means speaking with one voice and without delay. our report concludes that the current decision—making process in the eu council is the main obstacle to effective and timely external eu action. that means that qualified majority voting should also be applied for common foreign, security and defence policies. third, we call on the eu institutions to enhance their ability to anticipate conflicts and rely more on long-term impact assessments of eu policies. this is especially relevant to hybrid warfare and disinformation. this means turning the stratcom task force into a fully—fledged unit within the eeas, giving it all necessary support. finally, sanctions are part of efficient eu policies. i propose that we should make these more efficient, targeting concrete individuals responsible for breaking international laws and human rights violations – a type of magnitsky list.
in writing. – i am very pleased that paragraph 35 of this report encourages the creation of a permanent ‘european integrated force’; i have been calling for the creation of a real european armed forces for years now. i also warmly welcome the renewed call for member states to ensure that their defence budgets are at least 2% of their respective gdps. at the moment, too few member states meet this requirement. whereas paragraph 16 of the report calls for this goal to be achieved within a decade, i would personally very much prefer a faster and more ambitious approach to reach this important target.
mr president, today, more than ever, the eu needs a comprehensive, value—based and principled approach to the iranian dictatorship. the nuclear deal has to be kept – it should not be abandoned, let us be clear – but it is not a substitute for such a principled approach. we should not be hypercritical, clinging formally to the letter of the treaty and taking it as an excuse to look away from the real situation. the two belong together. regarding the iranian dictatorship, the treaty has also provided a breathing space for the dictatorship to strengthen its hold on the population, and iran continues to be the biggest exporter of terrorism and conflict in the middle east. it has continued with its ballistic missile programme, and our biggest worry is a dramatic worsening of the human rights situation. the eu cannot continue to keep a moderate and low—profile protest. we should take a very principled approach to this: the hundreds of people hanged find no relief whether their butchers have been called moderates in the west or not.
in writing. the complex political and security situation in libya has also created a growing problem of refugees. every year, tens of thousands of refugees arrive in libya seeking to reach europe. at the same time, increased controls on the coast and at sea make it increasingly difficult to leave libya, which is why refugees are trapped in libya. there, human traffickers have begun selling people as slaves, holding auctions in the marketplaces during the day. those sold as slaves are used for hard labor, are starved, and are extorted from their families for ransom. if it's not received, the person is simply killed and a new one is bought at the market. the problem of the slave markets has also been acknowledged by the high representative mogherini. it is time for the eu to address this problem in a meaningful way and to help find solutions to help refugees trapped in libya.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, dear colleagues, i do not want to repeat all the good things which have already been said by mr marias, who very thoroughly described the topics we had to deal with, and also mr vella from the commission side, and other colleagues who rightly said this a good channel, maybe the best channel here in this house, of how democracy is working. i was supposed to speak on behalf of the alde group, but i believe that true democrats will forgive me: i am going to speak on behalf of aliens, and these aliens have nothing in common with mr george lucas, the famous director. aliens are people who have got, in estonia and latvia, a passport which is called an alien’s passport. they submitted a petition 18 months ago. in this report, one big political group made this petition a red line for them. we have 7% of non-citizens in estonia and 12% of them in latvia, and in order not to discuss the topic there were circulating huge amounts of letters containing huge amounts of lies. the problem for us, for liberals and for me, as a representative of those people, is that we never reached the substance in this discussion. so i will use the opportunity and just say it is not true that these people vote for putin. they do not vote in any country. they have no voting rights. it is not true that they serve in the russian army. they do not serve in any army. it is not true that to get estonian citizenship they have to speak estonian at elementary level. they have to speak estonian b1, which is enough to study at university in any foreign country. so the problem is that we avoided this discussion. in the very beginning, when i came to the european parliament, i was very happy that we have a really high political culture here but this petition is the thing which i really cannot accept.
thank you, mr. chairman. it's my duty to support the artis factory's troubleshooting efforts. there are many people in the european union who, for one reason or another, do not have the nationality of any of the member states of the european union, and their wish to participate in the elections to the european parliament through the committee on petitions is undoubtedly an interesting but very minor issue, and one which concerns a very small group of people, so i would urge you to support mr pabriks' proposal and to remove this sentence from the resolution.
