mr president, the deepest economic crisis in europe has changed europe mentally, politically and economically. in fact, we are still living in the spirit of that economic crisis, and many member states are still pursuing an over-zealous, exaggerated policy of austerity. it is really the last moment to change this policy, and the rodriguez report serves that very well. i hope that this will inspire the member states and the european union to take account of the major changes which are currently still posing challenges to europe in the wake of the long economic crisis. the commissioner said that the commission had already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the eu.
mr president, i very much welcome mr šefčovič’s work on this energy union, and it is one of the challenges we are facing in the union. it is encouraging that the growth of the eu economy is starting to decouple from co2 emissions, so economic growth is possible without increasing emissions. it is clear from the state of the union speech that we heard, and which we saw in the papers, that more investment is needed, especially in electric transmission lines across the borders, to really create the reaches because with better functioning reaches we have better functioning energy markets. despite all the efforts we have made in the eu and the member states, renewable energy sources still constitute only 16.4% of the eu’s final energy consumption. from these figures, i also think that we have to see that the eu cannot rule out any sort of renewable energy sources, not even biomass, but we have to guarantee they are sustainably produced. energy efficiency in homes also very much improves people’s quality of life.
in writing. the state of the energy union report released today shows that the eu is on track to meet its 2020 energy and climate targets. emissions have been reduced by 22% and the share of renewables is now 16%, with both targets set at 20% by 2020. so, we're in the right career. the trend also shows that economic growth and environmental responsibility are not mutually exclusive. at the same time as eu emissions have fallen by 22%, gdp has increased by 50%. sustainable growth is possible. in international comparisons, european industry is already the cleanest in the world. in terms of the value of production, we produce less emissions than our competitors. however, there is still a lot of scope for improving energy efficiency and developing cleaner technologies. this also opens up new export opportunities. i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken the objective of decarbonising transport seriously. better transport planning, digitalisation, electrification and advanced biofuels will enable us to cut transport emissions considerably in the coming years. the european energy market needs more transparency, market conditions and healthy competition. it also requires better electricity and heat transmission connections than today. this is also necessary to improve energy security and energy efficiency.
in writing. circumcision of girls is common. it is in africa, but it is fair to say that girls are also being mutilated in europe. the tradition is chronic and causes girls and women lifelong suffering. but the way to do this is not by pointing fingers, but by better education and cooperation. the eu must make the eradication of female genital mutilation a priority in its foreign and development policy. this requires close cooperation between the institutions. parliament's delegations should have a common approach with the commission, the external action service and eu delegations. the message and the way of acting must be mutually agreed and clear. the goal must be to ban female circumcision by law and to eradicate the tradition everywhere.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the good rapporteur, mr milan zveri, for his excellent work. it is quite true, as has been stated here under the leadership of mr zver and the commissioner, that the erasmus programme is a particular success story in the european union and in the field of education policy. it is good to remember that we are celebrating its 30th anniversary and that even those people who are otherwise rather critical or negative about the european process as a whole still think that erasmus+ has been a success story. it has raised the level of european education, exchanged best practice and thus moved europe forward. but we want to make the programme better than it is, and that has been the idea of this interim review. it is still appropriate to highlight a few points which may still improve this programme. one of them is that the application processes should be simplified in order to allow voluntary organisations in particular to be better involved in the various programmes. we need cross-sectoral cooperation also in the field of education. the student loan guarantee scheme has also not really taken off and has not succeeded because the banking sector rejected the initiative. we must also take new initiatives in this area so that all europeans can take part in the erasmus programme. it also needs to be developed in the future. it is of the utmost importance that european citizens can benefit as much as possible from this programme. i can say that we need to simplify the application process in particular. nothing but continued success for this great program.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the world health organisation (who) has identified physical inactivity as the fourth leading cause of death. we must also be more active in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the sporting environment. the european union has had competence in the field of sport for seven years now. my report is an assessment of this development and is the only report of the current parliamentary term which deals exclusively with sport. it contains the european parliament's policy recommendations to the member states, sports organisations and the commission, which will be conducting a mid-term review of the european union's sport policy this spring. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to encourage physical activity, such as a proposal for a vat rebate and other financial incentives for grassroots sport. we particularly want to emphasize that people can move around europe on a grassroots level. that's where the foundation is. the report also highlights the wide economic importance of sport for society. the sports sector is growing faster than the rest of the economy, already employing around three and a half per cent of the european union's citizens. this boost to the sports sector could also be a lesson for other sectors in europe. exercise improves public health and thus also has a positive impact on the age structure. this has a direct link with the economies of member states experiencing age-structural change. sport is also a fundamental right of every human being. it also helps them to integrate better into society. therefore, sports and physical activity services must be equally accessible to all, whether disabled, immigrants, young or old. the accessibility of sport is something that needs to be more clearly reflected in the european union's sport policy. the erasmus+ programme, which we have just discussed, is a great programme and a success story, but it too needs additional investment, particularly in the field of sport. we all know that there have been serious cases of corruption and doping in organised sport, which have tarnished the reputation of the sport. the report calls for zero tolerance for corruption in sport and makes proposals for the development of good governance in sports organisations, which are often publicly funded. the governance and financial flows of sports organisations must be transparent. we also stress the need to ensure the integrity of sport and the measures taken to that end, such as the fight against match-fixing and doping. these are problems which tarnish the international reputation of sport and in solving them the european union and its member states also have an important role to play. i would like to conclude by expressing the hope that the european commission will take account of the proposals in this report in its mid-term review of sport policy. in view of the large number of proposals, the monitoring will continue beyond this spring. it is also important to monitor the implementation of the proposals in the member states and in sports organisations. that is why we are making these programmes, not just to put them on a shelf in a folder, but to put them into practice and to have them implemented in the various member states and sports organisations. i therefore propose that we organise an annual follow-up meeting of the proposals for this sports report here in the european parliament in cooperation with the european commission, the council and the stakeholders. we can thus help to ensure that this broadly-based position of the european parliament on sport can become a living and working reality in all the member states of the european union. thank you, sir.
mr president, i naturally voted in favour of this report. the eu has limited competence in sport and this report has been drawn up within that framework. in view of the eu's competence. some of the members seemed to have read the report and some did not. that is why i do not want to go into all the explanations of vote that have been discussed here today. i would just like to say that when the flag issue came up here, and i understood that many in the ecr group voted against it because of it, it was not a question of binding matters but of recommendations. i myself was opposed to that idea, but this is a recommendation, and because it's a recommendation, it doesn't bind anyone. you can put that flag on the inside of your shirt or leave it off. what about the freedom of independent states to decide their own affairs? how civilized are we? it's just that recently, hannan quit. i know that when the uk goes to the olympics, there's team gb, and when you play football, wales, scotland, england and northern ireland are separate. but when you play rugby, it's ireland, where northern ireland, wales, scotland and england are separated. we can say that even now we are taking account of this diversity. we are talking about the general meaning of sport to move people and to fight the problems and diseases that we have in europe and to guarantee the well-being of citizens across the different borders.
the emissions trading system (ets) is the principal instrument for lowering emissions in the sectors that it covers. the ets has continuously been enhanced to tackle the changing environmental and economic realities. the current reform is vital for meeting the ambitious targets set in the paris agreement and enhancing the effectiveness of the ets in long-term. parliament must set a clear path towards successful negotiations with the council whilst maintaining the balanced approach between industrial competitiveness and climate goals.
in writing. systematic abuses in different organisations can only be exposed if someone intervenes from within. the whistleblower often takes a great personal risk. the situation is currently reversed, with a company that has acted wrongly or even criminally often receiving more protection than the person who reported the wrongdoing. it is important that the notifier is able to be provided with legal protection allowing him to take the risk of failing. often, the whistleblower faces a lot of pressure and suffers from financial insecurity, psychophysical symptoms and many other factors that interfere with normal life. we should legislate to create a safety net that allows for risk taking. this would make misconduct more visible to the public, which is in the interest of society as a whole. the fact that many whistleblowers today prefer to remain anonymous shows that their protection is still far from satisfactory.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, i will say only a couple words on behalf of the committee on budgetary control and those are that the discharge process should be solidified and strengthened. it is at the heart of the credibility of the whole union. all the eu institutions should unfailingly cooperate and follow up the observations made by this parliament. my other point is about the european court of auditors. its role needs to be further strengthened. but i want to use this opportunity also because i see my dear friend mr farage here today. nigel, i think what you are hearing today are only the first chords and first notes of a big, big symphony that is going to be heard all over europe this year and next year. it is not only beethoven, it is not only bizet, it is sibelius and it is others like them. so let us not forget this week. these are really important first steps that we are taking.
the question of the blue card. you said quite forcefully that this european union is a criminal organisation, and yet it is a peace and security project voluntarily built up by different countries. you could apologize. but then i would ask you whether you have noticed that, particularly since brexit and partly also since the election of trump, support for the european union is increasing rather than decreasing in many european member states because people feel insecure about the future that brexit and also the election of trump have created.
mr president, budgetary capacity is offered as a solution to the euro area's myriad problems. the most important of these is the need to increase aggregate demand and to revive the euro area. at the same time, as many member states are struggling with budget deficits, it seems that at eu level the aim is to increase spending for the sake of increasing spending. given the difficulties of the esif and other eu funds in finding suitable projects to stimulate investment demand, how could a one-way increase in expenditure be better suited to this task? national fiscal capacity can achieve the same objectives as euro area fiscal capacity, without the risk of protracted revenue transfers or moral hazard. why should the euro area not continue to over-indebted and take too many risks? the fiscal capacity is a direct incentive to this, because that is why it is established, so that other countries can rescue countries in difficulty. in all solutions, the no-bailout clause defined in the maastricht treaty will be the cornerstone of the system. the credibility of future agreements depends on the respect of previous agreements.
mr president, some months ago a book entitled ‘the euro and the battle of ideas’ was published. after reading the book, and at the same time being part of the negotiations on the report by ms berès and mr böge, i came to a very disturbing conclusion. we have very different administrative cultures in this european union and this boils down to the necessity, according to one side, of living according to the rules, and for the other side of starting to renegotiate the rules immediately after a deal. this process ends with a compromise which does not actually satisfy anybody in this process. we create a very thin line no one is able to follow; we also create thereby illusions about our ability to solve the problem. we need a framework for discussion and we need it more dearly today than ever before and therefore i sincerely hope that these own-initiative reports and the white book president juncker will publish will produce a framework according to which we can solve the real problems.
mr president, parliament has been discussing this ceta agreement for months and can say that unfortunately ceta has gotten a bit of a bad reputation, having always been linked to the ttip agreement and seen as a mere trojan horse, when in fact this agreement is a completely separate entity. canada is not the same as the united states, canada is canada, and perhaps this is something to remember when this treaty is being negotiated. this ceta agreement offers european smes the opportunity to discover new markets in canada and facilitates trade in services in a number of sectors. the european union needs a progressive trade agreement at the moment, the european union needs a global market. we need partners like canada, with the same values, the same values. in ceta these things come together, and i sincerely hope that the colleagues will still find the traditional trade policy in the spirit of the eu, the thinking that we are not wrongly leaning towards the 'trumplian' thinking of the green left, but that we want to develop and create rules for trade worldwide and to be at the forefront of creating a world trade order. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer to the blue card question. thank you for this question, and i would point out that when you have one minute, you cannot bring all the things up in it. but i would say that the big companies, the multinationals, are doing well even now. they have their own global networks, but smes also need better access to market for their own products, and this is a big problem at the moment. they don't have the resources or the lawyers to get into that market. on the other hand, as i said, this is necessary for employment. it is good to remember that free trade creates jobs. automation and robots and artificial intelligence will take them. we need healthy free trade and a particular focus on smes.
madam president, i would vote in favour of ceta if i could judge that the balance of interests is correct, but i do not think so. i think it weighs heavily on the side of enterprises and investors but, having said this, i look very much forward to working with the commissioner on the new trade agreements where this balance will be set right. i welcome, commissioner, your suggestion on broad consultation on how to embed sustainable development in a legally binding way in the treaties. i also believe that parliament has to support you when you call for the council to publish negotiation mandates at an early stage in the future, because that would be the right way to proceed from now on. at this moment we are dealing with the ceta agreement and let me say that, even if canada is a very nice country and trudeau is a very nice guy, some canadian mining companies are not best known for their responsibility and accountability, and this may be felt even in my country, finland.
mr president, perhaps the most public concern has been the impact of robotisation on employment and social policy. it is clear that this will certainly involve a huge loss of jobs, but also the possibility of creating new ones. in order to prevent the increase in inequality and social exclusion caused by robotization, we must act exactly as pointed out in paragraph 44 of the delvaux report. a participatory debate should be launched on new employment models and the sustainability of our tax and social security systems based on an adequate level of income, including the possible introduction of a universal basic income. this is the kind of debate that is needed in the member states and in the eu institutions, because otherwise the threats may outweigh the opportunities.
mr president, robotics is often seen as a threat, not least because it is thought to be taking jobs away from many sectors. but i believe in the adaptability of societies, because we've already survived three industrial revolutions, so why not survive a fourth one? the coexistence of human and automated work will require new skills from both workers and management, and an update of our training and contract systems. however, i believe that we can look at this change in progress with curiosity and optimism. we need a european regulatory framework to support the development and exploitation of automation, artificial intelligence and robotics. the most important thing is to take responsibility for ensuring that the change is managed and controlled and that the training and employment opportunities of the workforce are taken care of. i want the eu to be a pioneer in this area and not too slowly put itself in the position of reactors, where others dictate global terms and standards.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to ask commissioner bulc about the use of biofuels, and specifically about the use of second generation biofuels, in particular waste and star-based biofuels. the use of biofuels to reduce aviation emissions is regularly welcomed, but the price is often three times higher than that of traditional fossil fuel. if we want to achieve the objectives of the paris agreement, and i hope we still want to achieve them, then all measures must be taken - in air transport, in shipping and in other transport sectors. i would hope that the commission would take steps to make this dependence on fossil fuels available to other fuels.
mr president, these three reports on the functioning of the eu start from the premise that a functioning union means a common finance minister, a common foreign minister, the leading candidates, a smaller commission, solidarity in debt and a common budget for the euro area. i am in favour of european cooperation and there must be changes, but structures cannot solve the problems we face today without a common will, without a vision, without a direction, without clear plans. the commission has already made a number of proposals. they're not gonna solve the problems we have. we lack jobs, we lack economic growth, and instead inequality is growing, there is tax evasion. there are no answers to these things.
in writing. in my view, we have only one sensible alternative: to strengthen the eu and cooperation. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. european populists have suggested the possibility of reducing european cooperation by leaving only the internal market and excluding political cooperation. this is not the way to go, no matter how much you fear the populists will win the national elections. if you take away politics from the eu, you only have the money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
in writing. the euro area has been in the throes of various economic crises for almost half the time the euro has been in use. the current compromise euro has proved to be an untenable experiment. this was made clear in the reports of five presidents. the changes it recommended were far-reaching and radical compared with the eu treaties in force at the time. the assumption that if the euro cannot adapt to the needs of the different euro countries, then the member states must adapt to the euro's conditions is a policy of rhetoric that is being implemented at the expense of the well-being of the citizens of the euro countries. the only options that have recently been put before parliament are those for advancing towards federation. the take-or-leave situation leads to scenario 1. unfortunately, even deeper integration has not made europe stronger, but deeper integration at the expense of the economy has at times brought to mind the soviet union. europe is only strong if its economy is strong. it is possible that some member states may need to strengthen their own economies by using the euro. in order to ensure the smooth functioning of markets, economic growth and employment, it is important to create formal pathways for those who opt out of the euro. only then can we ensure a rapid market calming and the well-being of europeans.
madam president, i wanted to raise one additional concern. i am aware, from georgia and armenia, of the russian influence in this regard. exactly the same kinds of laws against domestic violence are being called into question by forces who consider that preventing and combating domestic violence represents something imposed by europe and america and at odds with morality. we have to be aware that this type of attempt to stop the fight against domestic violence is a very essential part of pro-russian propaganda, which emphasises the so-called traditional values. we know what that means: ‘traditional values’ means that women are not allowed to decide on their lives and that they are subordinated to men. we have to be aware of this risk: it is spreading.
for the verts/ale group mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, when the council was unable to resolve this reform of the general court in the best possible way, the european parliament came to the rescue. we did, with some reluctance, but nevertheless accepted the doubling of the number of judges and we made a political agreement. mr zwiefka said that it was a gentlemen's agreement, but it was a political agreement by which we decided that in future we would strive as effectively as possible to have an equal number of female and male judges on the court. unfortunately, you use very traditional arguments, such as that gender is not the issue, but merit, and that there is no guarantee that there are women candidates, and of course the best one will be chosen. it is strange, however, that in this society and in the european union, it is still mainly men who meet these conditions. i really hope that the council will remember the agreement that the commission, the council and the european parliament have made.
for the alde group mr president, the mercury regulation now being negotiated will lead to a significant reduction in mercury emissions and use in europe. the ban on the use of dental amalgamation sites for children, pregnant women and nursing mothers is a particularly important achievement. at present, the majority of mercury imported into europe is used to make dental amalgam. in the coming years, the commission is therefore obliged to evaluate the possibilities of a total ban on amalgam use. some member states are not ready to give up the use of amalgam, but with this decision we are sending a clear message of the will of the citizens to reduce their use and to move to cost-effective, mercury-free dental implants. a total ban on amalgam would have very positive environmental and health effects in europe and in non-european countries where mercury is mined. the mercury regulation will bring eu legislation into line with the un minamata criteria, and that is how it should be. however, as new technologies develop, we must be prepared to change our legislation to be even stricter on the use of this mercury. mercury is among the ten most toxic substances, according to the world health organization, and exposure to it causes diseases of the nervous system and the intestines, among other things. in addition to the negative effects on humans, mercury also affects ecosystems and animals, especially in downstream and coastal waters. among other things, the baltic sea coastal waters have been measured with worryingly high mercury concentrations. the need for the adoption and entry into force of this regulation is great. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ecki, and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation and for their persistent defence of parliament's ambitious position. the timely outcome of the negotiations could, in my view, have been even more ambitious. i would, however, recommend that my colleagues vote in favour of this compromise. we cannot delay the adoption of this important act.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mercury is considered one of the worst pollutants in nature. it is particularly harmful in aquatic ecosystems where it is converted to methylmercury and enriched in food chains. we have already established, through exposure in the environment and in the food chain, that mercury can cause foetal malformations and severe symptoms, even death, even in adults, as was sadly demonstrated in the case of minamata, japan. the proposal has as an important objective the protection of human health and the environment from mercury emissions into air, water and soil. the regulation covers the entire life cycle of mercury from mining to waste management and also covers the use of mercury comprehensively. and for that, i thank all the players. this regulation, together with the minamata mercury agreement on the use of mercury, is of particular importance for the arctic countries, as mercury is a long-range toxic substance that accumulates in the polar regions. it should be noted that mercury is also released into the environment as a result of the use of fossil fuels, in particular coal combustion. i hope that the member states will ratify this agreement and i would like to thank in particular mr eck and the shadow rapporteurs for their very meritorious work.
mr president, when the commission presented its proposal for a new firearms directive, the formal grounds were security and terrorism. however, the actual subject of the presentation were semi-automatic weapons used in sport shooting, which have not been used in terrorist attacks and have a negligible role in crime. the most flagrant exaggerations of the proposal were rejected by both parliament and the council. the compromise text is still very problematic. for example, restrictions on the size of boxes negatively affect shooting enthusiasts and entrepreneurs, but do not increase anyone's safety. the rules on derogations are confusing and contradictory. this bill violates every principle of good law. it is a disgrace to the european union. i appeal to those who respect themselves and this institution to vote against this compromise.
i agree with many speakers that we are getting a balanced, good arms directive which will indeed increase safety. it is important that europe is different from the united states, where the availability of guns at leisure has led to very serious crimes, and where, for example, school shootings are said to be preventable if teachers also had guns. europe is different! it is therefore good that the decision-making process of the european union, in which the commission, the council and parliament must reach agreement, has produced such a balanced solution. in finland, the issues that were most concerned were those relating to our national defence, which involves a large reserve. we have a very good solution here, so that the people who love defence, hunters and collectors of weapons can live in peace.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ford, and the shadow rapporteur, mrs corazza bildt, for the very balanced report we have now. we know that the starting point was a bad one, because the commission presented the proposal for a directive on weapons as completely incomplete and incomplete. understandably, responsible gun owners, hunters, sports shooters, and gun collectors were upset that their legitimate hobby was being associated with terrorism. now, as a result of this parliament's process, those shortcomings have been corrected in the proposal, i myself made several amendments, and the legal hobby can continue. for us finns, the most important thing is that the activities and training of the reservists can continue as before. it is important for the finnish defence, because the reservists are an important part of the finnish defence. there have also been significant changes in the introduction of national flexibilities in, for example, firearms licences, medical certificates and examinations. on the other hand, the fact that the road signs are now being harmonised, and that registration and the exchange of information between the authorities are also being improved, does add considerably to safety. this proposal and the outcome of the negotiations are worth supporting.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the last few months i have had the great pleasure of beginning my speeches back home in finland with a brief statement: i'm going to talk trash. i'm going to talk trash in this chamber today, too. this expedition into the world of waste has been very interesting in many ways. it has been an expedition into reality, and i have had the opportunity to visit various facilities, both at home in finland and in other parts of europe. the interesting thing about this is that reality has shown itself to have taken several steps forward. today we are far more advanced in recycling our waste than we were perhaps just a year ago. i've been to a small factory that makes waste containers. it's probably the biggest factory in europe. the technological solution allows the waste to be sorted, resulting in a 98% purity of the resulting waste. so we can, by following the examples we already see, create a much cleaner waste stream. so there's a lot going on out there, and we don't want to be left behind. the second part of our expedition has, of course, been primarily about simona bonafés' work to help us on this difficult path. i think we have been satisfied we heard from all the other shadow rapporteurs how satisfied they have been with her way of working. however, not only has she been good in this respect, but our assistants and political advisers have also been excellent. i do not always agree with mr demesmaeker on all matters. there are some issues where we actually have quite different opinions. but to underline the good work we have done here, i will say that together with demesmaeker we are going to a flemish town to see how it is done there. we intend to continue this journey into a better reality.
mr president, the circular economy is a great opportunity for us in europe, but it would also make it possible to respond to global environmental challenges, even quite quickly, if we paid more attention to the smooth circulation of materials. this requires investment in products and research, among other things, but even more so in the transformation of our values at both the individual and societal levels. with regard to the amendment of the renewable energy directive which is about to be introduced, i would also like to point out that although we in parliament treat matters separately for good reason, in practice they are linked together. it is therefore good to understand that, for example, the more efficient use of materials through different cycles always requires energy. a sustainable circular economy cannot therefore be achieved without renewable, clean energy. it is not just about europe's success in global competition, but also about something more important: saving our planet.
mr president, in a circular economy we would need to produce the same welfare with a tenth of the resources. this regulation is a crucial part of that. we are getting there, but we are still on the way. firstly, the targets should be more ambitious. the second important point is that there should first be a requirement for a separate collection and then for the sorting of communal waste before incineration, because at the moment incineration is actually part of the problem, rather than part of the solution. thirdly, regarding methodology, we should have input and output to final recycling in the longer run. to really get where we want to be, the methodologies must be harmonised all over europe. there are two specific issues: food waste must include the whole food production chain to really achieve prevention. secondly, regarding marine litter, there should not only be aspirational targets, but also the banning of producers of microplastics.
mr president, every year europe dumps 600 million tonnes of raw materials which could be recovered and reused. this is a matter of both economic and environmental importance when we are dealing with this circular economy package. this also has an impact on europe's competitiveness. europe is highly dependent on imported raw materials, with up to 40% of raw materials imported from outside europe and for certain critical raw materials up to 90%. these are very important for the electronics industry. this circular economy package has the potential to significantly boost innovation and increase resource-efficient activities. i'm sure there are many details that will have to be negotiated in the future. it is essential that we have a common knowledge base of where the different countries are now, so that we can set ourselves sufficiently ambitious but realistic targets. the circular economy package we are discussing today is a significant step towards a more environmentally and economically sustainable europe.
in writing. each of us produces waste, and so waste matters come close to each of us. the report covers a wide range of biowaste, but i would like to draw attention to one form of biowaste, namely food waste. the adopted waste directive now includes a target to reduce food waste. the obligation to distribute is one way to reduce the number of losses and to direct food to those who need it. the principle is that shops or city or state agencies are not allowed to dispose of edible food if relief organizations come to collect it for distribution. shops, schools or other establishments do not have to arrange the distribution or transport of food themselves, only to refrain from destroying edible food if the relief organization is willing and able to distribute it to those in need. for example, in france, a law has already been passed that says that grocery stores are not allowed to throw away or destroy food. the matter is also being discussed in the finnish parliament, with the signatures of over 100 mps. it is a pity that my concrete proposal for amendment did not make it into the final directive, but it is a model available to countries which now have to reduce food waste in accordance with the directive. i see the duty to distribute as an important part of reducing food waste and bio-waste, and as a way to raise the value of food and help people.
in writing. i support the important and well-written report by mrs bonafette on the development of the circular economy. i would like to stress that the circular economy cannot work without the participation of the general public. we need more involvement from citizens, politicians, civil servants, universities and research institutes, and from various business representatives. the circular economy is not just about recycling, processing, transformation and reuse, but about exploiting the entire value chain. the words "public", "consciousness", "citizen" or "consumer" are mentioned too rarely and too rarely in an active role. there is a clear opportunity to involve all eu citizens more as a community in climate change issues. this is something that affects all of us. citizens must not be left to be the mere spectators of the debate, but must be included as active actors.
mr president, president trump’s global gag rule goes much beyond and much further than his predecessor’s, another republican president, mr bush. we do not quite yet know how far it goes but we can estimate that the work of non-us-based ngos in all areas of global health assistance, including family planning, will be jeopardised. and this will directly threaten the lives of hundreds of millions of women and girls in the world. we know also that the bush rule, during its eight years, added 36 million unwanted pregnancies to the world, and it added 15 million abortions. is this what you want? this is certainly not what i want. i want to get rid of these kinds of hypocritical interventions which are calling for a total ban or even criminalisation of abortion in the name of some obscure ideology in defence of life. what we need is to look at what really works, and what really works we can see, for instance, in nepal. in nepal, abortion was legalised in 2002, and we have seen that immediately, maternal deaths started to go down in numbers. we can also say that a good-quality sexuality education with a permissive abortion legislation is the best way to bring the numbers of abortions down. if that is what you want, then change your thinking. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – schuman certainly was a great european politician. i am not disputing that. but i am sure that in order to get what you want, you have to look at figures. you should not just say ‘ban abortion’ or ‘stop supporting abortion services’. and, as i said, what we are seeing now is that this is also about stopping family planning. we can all be very proud that the european union fought against this rule during the bush era, and i am convinced that the european union will have a sensible and courageous approach on the question even now.
mr president, our global food systems are currently facing a very serious crisis in terms of food safety, health, traceability and also sustainability. in order to build a better system from it, we first need a framework legislation capable of controlling from the source, production, animal feed, animal production to the market and consumer, our food chain and the products in it. many of the big food scandals we have also had have very clearly shown the shortcomings of the control system. i would venture to say that this legislation, which has now been successfully agreed, is the first good, comprehensive control legislation which monitors and produces the necessary data for the whole food production chain. this is also very important in the future because, as we have seen in previous scandals of mad cow disease and other cases, animal feedingstuffs play a key role in the risk factors, diseases, excessive use of antibiotics and also in the accumulation and movement of chemicals. we now have powerful tools to monitor potential risks. we now need to have more good legislation to restrict the routine use of antibiotics in animal feed, to restrict chemicals that are dangerous to humans and to restrict, for example, the use of pesticides and their accumulation in food chains. i would like to thank the commission, the rapporteur and the whole negotiating team for the good result.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the european community's work to avoid double taxation began with the treaty of rome in 1957. in this 1950s world, mitigating the threat of double taxation was a big step forward in encouraging international trade. the cfo's of the big industrial companies could not even dream of the kind of tax planning arrangements that we have seen in this millennium used by the big companies like apple, google and starbucks. the code of conduct for business taxation, which was conceived at the european community finance ministers' meetings in 1996 and 1997, was an important milestone at the time. tax wars between states were becoming a problem, and the code of conduct group was able to put a brake on the development of the worst models. however, in a world of luxleaks, aggressive patent boxes and increasingly complex tax products, the mandate of the code of conduct group is outdated. this is also underlined by the revelations in the guardian newspaper in january about luxembourg's problematic role in the group. the group's position must be strengthened and its remit and range of measures extended. we also need to increase transparency and representativeness. the final report of the first taxe committee provides a good basis for this. key reforms would include the election of a permanent, politically accountable chair, the extension of the criteria for harmful tax practices to include the impact on non-eu countries, the strengthening of the enforcement of decisions and regular visits by finance ministers and senior officials. we must also increase the publicity of decisions. i am in favour of these recommendations being used as a basis for the reform of the code of conduct.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when you read the reports from taxe 1 and taxe 2 and compare the wishes of parliament with reality, you become a little despairing. we have to ask ourselves whether we have the muscle to push through the policies that everyone in this house is now calling for. many people answer that question in the negative for the simple reason that it is so easy for the minority members of the council to stop all development. however, there are still some opportunities for progress. firstly, article 20 (1) gives us the opportunity to let those member states who are really concerned about tax evasion go their own way, to create sustainable patterns of behaviour for member states. in that way we can leave behind those who do not want to follow the moral rules in force. then, of course, there is another interesting problem specific to malta. we can understand that a small island in the sea, where there is not much crop growing and where there are not very many conditions for a large-scale industry, needs anything but the reverse transfer union that we have now created, i.e. transferring money to itself through a tax system that does not respect the moral rules. we must therefore review our cohesion policy and offer malta an honourable way out of this horror. so there are possibilities. we are only asking for a little will, and we are also asking for a commissioner who will listen to us.
mr president, taxation issues are a perfect example of a case where the european union gets the most blame when, in fact, the fault lies with the member states and their inability to act. what is to blame is the fact that unanimity is demanded in the council, that there are opaque structures and a lack of transparency in the code of conduct group, and that the member states are unwilling to transpose powers to the european union and unwilling to serve their citizens. i am pretty fed up with this and i am convinced that none of the civil society players, the media or the european parliament is going to drop the issue as long as it is open and unsolved. there are easy ways to solve the problem. what about the automatic exchange of information , which is halfway or more to finalisation? a truly automatic exchange of information would be where all benefit payers all over europe had a tax index number for their beneficiaries, and the information would be transposed immediately and automatically with the technology that we have, for member states’ tax officials to take into account. it is not very difficult. this is automatic exchange of information. in fact, the commission has been promising a tax index number regulation for quite some time. i have no pats on the back for the commission either. we do have regulatory actors which we could use if they had the fully competencies. what about audited annual reports? what if we were required to tick a box to say whether we had received preferential treatment in certain member states or third countries and, if so, we had to specify what kind of preferential treatment we got? and the transparency directive could also be used much more effectively to reveal tax havens and unfit tax practices.
for the alde group mr president, europe is facing challenging years. it is therefore important that the budget also identifies the right priorities. the alde group thinks that they have been found well. it is important for the eu to invest in growth, youth, the future and security. in this respect, it is important that this budget focuses on investments in smes and research, as well as on the training of young people in erasmus. secondly, i would like to mention the climate targets. my group welcomes the fact that the report takes account of the commitments made in the paris agreement and that the eu is committed to 20% climate finance. thirdly, i would like to raise the issue of safety. the budget or guidelines take as a starting point the eu's commitment to developing a common defence policy and the allocation of funds for joint defence research. this is important and will certainly bear fruit in the years to come. the worrying challenge is that brexit is taking a big chunk of the budget. this means that the use of money must be examined more closely. in future, we will also have to prioritise even better where the money is going, since it is unlikely that the money will be coming in from the member states in the coming years by more than about 1% of what it is now.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms toia, for reaching compromises so quickly in the interinstitutional negotiations on this 700 mhz band agreement. spectrum policy is an area where better coordination and harmonisation of allocation schedules bring significant additional benefits for consumers, industries and societies in europe. we have set the path towards 5g to regain leadership in digitalisation in europe. countries willing to deliver spectrum allocation quickly to meet the increased need for wireless broadband electronic communication are now able to do so, and we are also setting a deadline for when the last member states should follow. i am happy that parliament was even able to modernise this piece of legislation so that it does not limit spectrum allocation to downlink only. both uplink and downlink are important for future two-way connectivity of the digital society in order to get from it everything that we need. the next step on spectrum policy is being taken with the reform of our telecom framework. we have to deliver added value for our societies. we must boost digital economy innovations, well—being and jobs in europe. to do that we need to ensure that spectrum policy facilitates competition in the markets. we need spectrum policy to push investment to the vital digital networks, and we need to allow innovative services to flexibly gain access to the spectrum and enter the market.
mr president, i will start with a very theoretical question. i think you can say in logical terms that if you are not able to solve the general problems then you are bound to bump into all the specific problems during the ride. i think this is what is going on in europe at the moment. national law in europe is usually structured in kelsenian terms, meaning that when hans kelsen wrote about national law, he spoke about stufenordnung : you have certain levels of law in every country. this level of law is actually then turned slightly upside down by the treaty, because the treaty follows a different logic, and this is the problem we are running into with every question and every discussion in this house. we need to be able to find compromises between the kelsenian structure and the structure of the treaty, and this is the challenge we actually have in front of us. i was the shadow rapporteur of the berès and böge report, and i can say that this problem was the problem we ran into every single day. it is the problem you are running into every single day in the commission and in the council. we have a tendency, which is even worse, to push the real questions over to the neighbour’s table and ask him to solve the problems, instead of dealing with it ourselves. we need to solve this problem in order to build a future europe which functions and keeps itself together.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr urmas paeta, for the excellent cooperation he has shown, as well as all my colleagues in the envi and afet committees. i believe that our common message is clear, as we have heard here: it is high time for the european union to strengthen its arctic policy. firstly, the european union is an arctic actor, since three of its member states are located in the arctic region. secondly, just as in security policy, the changes and challenges in the arctic are a challenge for the whole of the eu, and we have a special obligation and responsibility to take account of the specific features of the arctic in our own climate policy and in our use of our natural resources. we all know that the arctic is changing about two degrees faster than other regions. we know, for example, that the melting of ice in the last decade has exceeded all projections, and it seems to be continuing. we know that the arctic is a particularly vulnerable area, where the effects are multiple, both in terms of time and scale: much longer-term, often more irreversible, such as deforestation or the pollution of fish stocks, and they are reflected in a number of different ecosystems and life possibilities. if we undermine the sustainable use of resources in this vulnerable region, we will not only destroy the unique arctic region, but we will also, in turn, fundamentally accelerate climate change, destroy and threaten access to clean water, and the impact on global fish stocks will be permanent and dramatic. this eleventh moment for the european union is particularly important because, sadly, paradoxically, it is precisely because of climate change that the race for natural resources in the north and the arctic is intensifying. the clear message of this report is therefore that the eu must have a strong responsibility and a strong role in the arctic council as an actor, in order to make peaceful cooperation, based on the principle of research cooperation and peaceful cooperation, the main principle and to put into practice an assessment of the environmental impact of the arctic, which takes into account both the multiple times, the more easily generated permanent damage and also these multiple multiple times effects, when it comes to major projects for the use of natural resources, such as the mining industry or the energy industry. it is also essential to take account of the rights of indigenous peoples. the only indigenous peoples in europe are located in the arctic regions and so the report also calls for their own representation and financial support for representation in eu policy. it also stresses support for sustainable investments, in particular those based on clean technology, better use of information technology and sustainable investments. last but not least, we need more and more information. that is why we are also calling in the report for a permanent arctic information and science centre and for permanent funding for it.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, i am very pleased that this report places a strong emphasis on international cooperation and that cooperation is conducted on an equal footing with partners of value and in compliance with international law and justice. in fact, this work has worked so well and it is really interesting that despite the many tensions in the world, in the arctic, cooperation with russia, for example, has worked very well and this is what is highlighted in this report. the rapporteur, mr paet, has rightly said that the european union's great objective is to become a permanent observer in the arctic council. why aren't we already? well, simply because the european parliament has angered canada. the fact that canada is opposed and that russia is not really a friend of the european union has slowed this down. our main ally, partner and supporter has been norway. i am a little afraid that if we now say in this report, for example, that drilling must stop in the arctic areas where norway has drilled oil and gas to high standards - fortunately we have no right to say that, because this is an ini report and not legislation - then we will lose one of our good supporters for a permanent observer position on the arctic council. the most important thing now is that we get a report which is balanced, which respects the right of sovereign countries to make their own decisions, and we will make haste so that the commission actually does and does make the arctic strategy which has been in progress for nine years. i am sure that parliament will give it its full support. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
the question of the blue card. mr president, i find it somewhat problematic that my colleague from the isle of man is talking about the need to respect the sovereign decisions of the individual countries. as if climate change were not a matter for us all, as if it were not important that the european union should do everything possible to ensure that the arctic council and other international forums gradually achieve a total ban on the very dangerous drilling for oil in the arctic. why do you now want to equate this with our need to become a member or observer of the arctic council?
the answer to the blue card question. mr hautala, i emphasised that cooperation and mutual respect have been the key to progress in arctic policy. this is the nordic spirit, the emphasis on dialogue. that is why i think it is wrong and fatal for the european union if we go and tell some countries that they must stop drilling for oil and especially for gas, when you are, for example, using the highest possible standards and have been very environmentally friendly in the way you have been doing things. why are we at the same time subjecting ourselves to a much worse-made russian energy and to dependence on russian energy?
for the alde group mr president, the eu is an arctic actor and must have its own external policy and strategy for the arctic. one based on sustainable development, but at the same time realistic and taking into account and respecting the member states of the region. with over four million people living in the region, it is no small area. there are more people living there than in many small eu member states combined, so while we are talking about the environment, we must also take into account the possibilities for these people to live, to earn a living and also to move around. the arctic is in many ways a fragile and extreme region. the arctic will change in the coming years and decades perhaps more than in all of human history. this is due to climate change, which is taking place in these polar regions. climate change has far-reaching effects on people, the environment and the livelihoods of the region. the whole of the environment, human life and the use of resources must be in balance. the interests of the various players are in some respects intertwined, so finding a balance can be difficult, but it must be sought and it can be found. finding this balance is the primary task of the arctic region, its states and people, and the eu in all possible forums. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the arctic is not left to the detriment of the environment, and that the use of resources must take account of the vulnerability of the arctic environment, which this report has sought to take into account as far as possible, as well as the conditions for human life in general.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. in the challenging case, the work proceeded in a very constructive way. we are living in a time of international tensions all over the world, and this is reflected in the arctic report. we are committed to doing everything we can to bring climate change under control and to make the effects of climate change more visible in the arctic and more globally. the future of the arctic must be approached from the perspective of the environment and the rights of the indigenous peoples of the region. if we are not able to agree on things by means of cooperation and consultation, the concern expressed in our report for the rights of the indigenous peoples of the region and, for example, for the possibilities of clean technology will also be largely a mere rhetorical statement. i hope that we can find solutions to replace the use of fossil fuels in the arctic with more environmentally friendly alternatives. we have a duty to the people of the region and to the environment, and i hope that we in europe will have the courage to act as mediators, to seek common solutions, to be able to negotiate and to remember that the peaceful path is ultimately the best option for all, including the future of the arctic. i warmly support the idea of mr pietikkinen of an arctic centre and of securing its funding.
madam president, many of you may not have noticed that norway has just this week announced that they will open 93 new blocks in the very northernmost waters of the barents sea for oil drilling. i believe that with norway being a part of the european economic area, a very close partner of the european union, we have to care about that. many colleagues have spoken very well about the alarming pace of climate change in the arctic and believe me, a lot is at stake. if the gulf stream changes its course we will all be in trouble in the north. i think we should not be polite to norway and accept that they do this. i think we have to accept the wordings in the report that the commission and the member states should work very hard on international fora to get a full ban on arctic oil drilling. it is also the most dangerous kind of oil drilling that there is.
rapporteur. – madam president, firstly i would like to underline our special responsibility towards the indigenous people, namely the sami people. thank you to the commission for taking some affirmative actions on this side. we are quite eager, as we should be, to tell third countries how to deal with their minorities and indigenous peoples, and indeed, this is something we should take better into account in our own activities. then of course there is the question of russia and other arctic areas and the run for natural resources threatening their livelihoods and their right to land very seriously. my second point would be the role of the eu in the arctic. tuna fish is not only a property and issue concerning italy and greece, and this is the point of our common fisheries policy and debate in general. so the arctic itself is not the property of any country willing to claim so; it is a common heritage, like the fish, and this is, of course, underlined with the abundance of international agreements and conventions such as anglers or the role of the international maritime organisation (imo), and so on. this is exactly why we need the eu to be stronger in the arctic policy, in the arctic council and international negotiations. i welcome the commission’s announcement being very strong here. the eu is not the third party in the area; it is an arctic actor, and this is something, i think, that the commission, the council and the eu as a whole should very clearly have in mind. lastly, i hope that they we can duly treat the arctic as our common heritage. if we fail on that, we will also fail in many other policies.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on the third anniversary of the illegal annexation of crimea, the russian federation is celebrating reunification. however, with our resolution, we must be determined to shed light on what is really happening in crimea. it is tragic to see the lawlessness and the repression of civil, political and human rights in crimea, including the situation of the political prisoners, some of whom have been transferred to remote regions of the russian federation. we also have to give our full support and sympathy to the tatars, the original indigenous people of crimea. we very much appreciated the visit of their speaker, mr dzhemiliev, who was here a few months ago. we have to condemn the prohibition and ban of the tatar parliament, and we have to make sure that civil, political and human rights are returned to everyone on the peninsula. however, the situation will of course not change as long as the russian federation stays as an occupying power. we have to recognise the full sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of ukraine, including crimea, and we have to continue the policy of non-recognition.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission certainly thought it was doing a great service to the european automobile industry by not monitoring the proper control of this part of the industry. in fact, the commission did both europe and the european automobile industry a great disservice. by not pushing the technology forward, by not pushing the legal supervision, the commission actually created a situation where the european car industry has been technologically left behind. it will be of great importance in the future because all our economic development, in europe in general, is about how well we meet the technological challenge. in that sense the commission was counterproductive and we hope that it has actually learned something from this, but we are not convinced.
mr president, if the commission and national parliaments had acted actively as required by the legislation, the emissions fraud would not have been possible. when the fraud was discovered, i do not think it was dealt with with with sufficient efficiency. they believed it when the auto lobbyists threatened to take their jobs. it is now known that what the automobile industry won by lobbying is paid for by people who get sick from the effects of air pollution. more people die from transport emissions than from road accidents, and yet there is a silence on the human and economic aspects of the problem. the most frightening idea, after all the research and studies, is that no one can currently make a reliable estimate of the real emissions from transport. although the european commission is currently developing tests to measure real-world emissions at the time of driving, the challenge of combating climate change remains acute. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. but when big business or member countries break the law, they are treated with silk gloves. if we are going to set up a new agency, it too must not be treated with a silk glove, but it must be really supervised and have real tools to deal with problems. the european people deserve solutions that protect their lives and health, not destroy them.
mr president, the economic structure of rural areas has been changing for a long time. more and more farms are becoming multi-sectoral, and new sources of income are being sought alongside agriculture and forestry. the creation and maintenance of jobs in rural areas is vital to maintaining a vibrant rural environment. women's courage and enterprise are needed to keep the countryside alive and attractive. the structural change in rural areas has forced many families and women to rethink their way of life. the eu structural funds should also support women's entrepreneurship and small business in a much stronger way than at present, so that the rural areas of the future will provide employment opportunities for men and women.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i shall address some basic structural problems affecting greece. the first structural problem concerns the budgetary structure. every country that has its pension policy embedded in the state budget is ordering a problem. you can check with the russian state budget, where they have made the same, in itself short-term, solution. you think there's always money in the treasury and you think you can pay the pensions out of that budget. if you look at the population pyramid for greece, you will see that soon a majority of the population will be retired, and a minority of the population will be earning the money for the treasury. if people paid their taxes in greece, this could possibly be an affordable problem. the way that taxes are paid in that country, this problem is not solvable. that's the first problem. the second problem concerns a mismatch between the correct decisions and the non-administration. we know that the greek government has taken the right decisions and we know that the greek parliament, with some reluctance, has taken the right decisions, but we still do not see, on the day that is today, that these decisions are being put into practice. that is why i am one of the minority in this house who was not terribly appalled by mr dijsselbloem's statement on the use of money. some of my fellow members showed a great lack of sense of humour when they 'raised hell' on the issue. a little more discipline, a little more self-criticism, and maybe we can get through this thing.
for the verts/ale group mr president, our group supports this excellent report by mr valenciano and mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra. it stresses that the need for a strong eu common immigration policy based on human rights is paramount. this common immigration policy must be based on solidarity between the member states and must also include legal channels for safe immigration. it is good that the report also highlights the need for a long-term development policy so that people do not have to leave their homes. unfortunately, we are seeing an increasing emphasis in the member states of the european union on promoting border controls, the return of refugees and also readmission agreements. this is a very short-sighted and inhuman policy. in finland, last night, the following happened: from there, a plane left helsinki airport for kabul with 10 asylum seekers who had been refused a return decision. people reacted very strongly to the fact that the police had illegally picked up an 11-year-old girl from school and that she, along with her father and her pregnant mother, could have also been on this flight had it not been for the intervention of civil society activists. this is unacceptable.
mr president, when immigration to the european union began to increase two years ago, we should have tried to control it immediately by intervening at its roots. for too long, immigration has been treated as an internal matter of the union, mainly by the council of ministers of the interior and justice and by parliament's libe committee. the report before us also focuses too much on internal affairs and justice, but it also draws attention to the way in which the administration of external affairs can influence the causes of immigration. the foreign affairs department can and should seek peaceful solutions to violent conflicts that generate migration. the reform of the instrument for stability and peace, which is currently being examined by parliament's committees, will contribute to this. migration can and must be curbed by eradicating poverty and promoting economically, socially and environmentally sustainable development. in this context, the external action service has a key role to play both in implementing long-term development policy and in channelling humanitarian aid. refugee camps outside europe must be supported and new ones established in cooperation with partner countries and relevant un agencies. at the same time, efforts must be made to enable those living in refugee camps to return to their home regions as soon as possible. the integration of those who have been granted asylum must of course be continued, and the granting of asylum to those who are entitled to it must be continued. finally, i would like to thank commissioner mimica for his excellent speech, in which he explained and showed how the commission has taken very effective action to control this migration.
mr president, it is a fact that the most of those who arrive in europe from africa and the middle east are very unlikely to find employment and become self-sufficient in europe. this kind of immigration is an economic and social burden, not a resource. it is also a fact that most of those who arrive illegally or using the asylum procedure are not genuine refugees but rather people looking for better opportunities. for these reasons it is both necessary and justified to limit as much as possible immigration from the third world to europe. the report rightly addresses the root causes of migration, such as poverty and bad governance and calls for more cooperation with the neighbourhood countries. our focus should shift from managing the crisis within europe to supporting the countries of origin and transit countries and helping refugees where most of them are, in the camps.
mr president, could we for a moment go back to the discussion we had about two years ago in these solemn surroundings and remember what the council then said or what the commissioner then said? you should actually have shown the courage to say you were totally wrong. when you look at the figures then you see that you were wrong. you are not on the page of reality, and this is disturbing because this reality is going to be there for the next few years, and if you do not learn to read the reality then you are coming back to this parliament again with an approach which is totally unacceptable, because it is unintellectual. i congratulate you on being stupid.
i am glad, mr president, that parliament and the council, with the support of the commission, have reached agreement on the revision of the multiannual budget, or as the council called it, the 'package'. it is important that the agreement now be respected and that the ceilings on the use of funds not be missed. you don't want to increase the budget during the final semester. this also means that payment appropriations for the spfs should not be allowed to exceed the ceiling of the financial envelope. the eu cannot demand more money for its own use, while at the same time member states are forced to cut services and live on a savings-pool or at least within very strict limits. finally, i would say that we have not yet reached the target of a 5% reduction in staff. it is good that this is now being clarified so that we can proceed in this case too in such a way that when a 5% reduction has been agreed, it will be implemented.
in writing. it is difficult to imagine european science without britain. the country's universities and research institutes have given a lot to the eu and received many of its best researchers from the eu, as well as considerable sums of money: 7 billion in research and development funds, more than their share of the payment. what will happen to the exchange of students and researchers in the event of brexit? brexit is testing both the eu and, in particular, britain in ways that voters never could have imagined. the scientific community is in a difficult position, as are many other areas of life and business. the scientific community as a whole is almost unanimous in its view that scientific cooperation should continue as before or even be intensified. it is in no one's interest that brexit destroys cooperation in the scientific world. the same is true in almost every aspect of society. i recently met with representatives of the british national grid company, national grid, who told me about the cooperation in the electricity market, which benefits both parties through interconnectors. the uk is a net importer, and connections increase the security of supply. the same message from other sectors: could we continue to work together in our field? this is no wonder, for the whole of the eu is based on agreements that benefit all parties. the negotiations must be open. both sides must take account of the human condition, including the rights of workers, and guarantee compliance with international agreements. the gaps in tax evasion should not be tolerated, but prevented. while there are many uncertainties, one thing is certain: to offset the disadvantages of britain's departure, the rest of the eu will need to work together better and more closely.
in writing. the brexit negotiations must be transparent and conducted in good faith by both sides. britain cannot pick raisins from the eu bottle. the free movement of citizens within the eu cannot be separated from the internal market. britain also has to make up its own exit count. the uk cannot try to blackmail the eu in negotiations by ending cooperation on common security. only when the principles of the uk's withdrawal are sufficiently clear can the debate on the form of the future partnership between the eu and the uk begin. the brexit process is complex and the negotiations will require patience. both sides need to act constructively and find the best solutions, as the uk will remain part of europe and a close partner of the eu.
in writing. regardless of the final compromises reached in the negotiations, it is clear that brexit will leave a large gap in the eu's membership fees. i think that this gap should be filled by transfers of revenue from other budgetary items or by a steady reduction in all eu expenditure. in other words, there should be no increase in membership fees because of brexit. an increase in the eu payroll tax from 10% to 30% would also generate additional revenue accordingly. the task is not difficult, as the gap can be filled by reallocating budgets to items for which there is no evidence of effectiveness. for example, there is no evidence that the esif has been successful in improving eu economic growth and employment. the planned budget capacity may also be allocated to fill a budget gap. if there is no agreement on the reallocation of budgetary resources, i propose that the commission's administrative and other expenditure be cut accordingly. while austerity policies are squeezing the budgets of many member states, it is only fair and reasonable to expect the commission to be efficient in its activities.
mr president, i have been involved in politics for more than 30 years and in recent years i have too often had to observe that news reports on an event or an event have been strongly coloured by the political views of the writer, which often correspond to the views of the owner of the media house. often these oversteps occur just before elections, when the aim is to influence which party or candidate citizens should not vote for under any circumstances. however, when such news stories cross a certain threshold, they turn against the intentions of their presenters, since citizens are able to think for themselves and make independent voting decisions. before elections, news is often given about the upcoming election results, both for parties and for the candidates to be elected, because the electorate wants to join the winner's party. i'm sorry to say, but even the traditional media should take a look in the mirror every once in a while when we're discussing misinformation, propaganda and outright fake news.
rapporteur. – madam chairman, a long-standing priority will now finally become a reality. on 15 june, roaming surcharges will be a thing of the past for european citizens travelling in the european union. europeans will no longer face huge phone bill shocks after travelling in another eu country. in june, europeans can use their phones just like at home without paying extra. before, europeans used to switch off when they crossed a border. this summer, europeans will be able to call their friends from the beach, tweet from the work conference, or check emails and social media from lisbon to latvia, from dublin to dubrovnik, without fear of surcharges. often we are asked what is the benefit of the european union, and what is the significance of the internal market, for citizens? we are and we will be reminded of the roaming surcharges when leaving the internal market when travelling outside eu borders. i will give you a concrete example: i checked many european operators, big and small, on the prices for data roaming when travelling to croatia and to serbia – neighbouring countries. travelling to croatia, a member state of the eu, applying the rules of the internal market, the cost of using one gigabyte abroad after 15 june will be no extra cost on my tariff plan as it is included in my tariff plan at home. when travelling to serbia, a neighbouring country but outside the eu, how much do you think that one gigabyte would cost? make a guess! the bill sent to me would be thousands of euros for using that one gigabyte! what is the reason for this? it is that operators in visited countries, and visiting operators, can both charge much more than needed from the consumer without regulation of the internal market that has now been created over the decade by reducing roaming costs within the eu. tomorrow we will vote on the last piece of legislation to make ‘roam-like-at-home’ a reality. it sets a price cap for what operators can charge each other when their consumers travel. the european parliament defended the interests of the citizens, competitive markets and small operators. as a rapporteur, i am proud of this result. i am proud of what we can achieve together. together we have reached a dramatic drop in the prices from the original proposal by the commission. the most important was the price on the data caps. the lower data price cap benefits european citizens directly. the lower the price on data, the more data europeans can use when they travel. mobile data plays a key role in today’s digital society. the use of data is growing rapidly. data will play an even more important role in the future. today, europeans use mobiles everywhere; opportunities are unlimited. already today, mobiles are used for many services. we follow news online, order bus tickets, make restaurant reservations, use maps, look for tourist attractions, play mobile games and we can stay connected with our colleagues online. all the time we can do more and more on our mobile services using mobile data. the services must not stop at the internal borders of the european union. the end of roaming surcharges contributes to the freedom of european citizens; it contributes to the development of the internal market, connectivity and the use of electronic services wherever europeans travel in the eu. i want to thank shadow rapporteurs representing all parliamentary political groups, the committee on industry, research and energy, all of you my colleagues, the commission and the council for supporting this achievement.
mr president, it is good that the wholesale roaming market in europe will be capped next summer. but there's a problem with the show. in finland, that means higher prices. at the same time, it is a transfer of revenue to operators with a high volume of passengers in their territory. if the price of mobile data transmission increases, the proposal will have an impact on data flows and other economic activities. concerns have also been raised about the transfer of income from low-travel and low-income citizens to those who can afford to travel extensively abroad. the irish operators have already found a loophole in the proposal, allowing them to continue to charge a significant premium for data in the eu. despite the assurances of the irish authorities, at least the independent newspaper feels that the authorities have little power to change this. it will be interesting to see if operators in other countries will find similar loopholes.
blue-card question. – there has been a lot of talking. mr sykliotis, as a former minister from cyprus, may i ask you a question? you are not supporting this result in the end. how then would you regulate markets – which, in this case, i think should be the only solution – if we were to allow visiting operators and visited operators – both sides – to charge consumers more than is necessary? nowadays you can even have to pay eur 10 000 for one gigabyte when travelling because, if the regulators are not regulated, they can both charge the consumer too much. what is your solution?
mr president, the european parliament's long-held objective will be achieved next june when roaming charges will be abolished in the european union. in fact, since 2007, when roaming was first regulated at eu level, prices have fallen by up to 90%. this is a very significant achievement for consumers. it is important that consumers are encouraged to use digital services, including mobile data, if we want to promote digitalisation in europe. in this sense, the outcome of the negotiations on the wholesale price ceiling, which has now been achieved and in which parliament did an excellent job in the negotiations, was very important. in particular, in the nordic, scandinavian and baltic countries, where mobile data is used to a very high extent, it is important that operators cannot charge each other excessively high roaming charges. in my own country, finland, mobile data is used more than anywhere else in the world, and up to ten times more than in other european countries, and it is of great importance to consumers and operators. otherwise, the risk would have been that consumer prices in finland might have even increased as a result of the abolition of roaming charges. it is important that there is now a strong push across europe to promote the use of mobile data, and this can be done by investing in fast, good networks and promoting fair competition. when we have a functioning market in europe, it means that consumers get better services and cheaper prices and so does the digitisation in europe.
mr president, the european parliament should congratulate itself and, above all, thank all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have worked for over nine years to abolish roaming charges in the european union. the commission has also shown a very high degree of resilience and goodwill in this respect in the pursuit of the digital single market. at no stage has it been easy, and national interest has been hijacked many times to justify the questionable behaviour of operators and used as an unfair means in this debate as well. in the initial phase there has been almost cartel-like behaviour on the part of operators and outright mutual plundering at a later stage, when roaming charges have been moving on. all this has prevented and slowed down the emergence of a true european digital agenda, the digital union and consumer services. this is a perfect example of why we need the eu. it is a good example of why we need market surveillance and regulation, and a good example of why we need common european rules of the game. i'm not sure i can do better. and finally, compromise is to be welcomed, as in life. i have been informed that wholesale prices are still quite well above real costs, so there will be plenty of work to be done by parliament and the commission on this.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you to all colleagues for today's discussions, for your strong support and also for your concern. it was an honour to chair this negotiation on behalf of parliament. the final piece of legislation on common wholesale price ceilings will be finalised in the vote tomorrow. the european parliament would have been prepared to accept even lower prices, as was pointed out here, because we see that the lower the price ceilings, the better for the consumer. but even for those operators who today already offer unlimited data access at a low price, the process has three reliefs. firstly, the cap price was set much lower than the commission's original proposal; secondly, these operators can set caps on the use of data abroad; and thirdly, operators can then apply for a derogation if this would still be too costly for them. however, i believe that the market and the competitive market will play a part and that consumers will be covered by this legislation, so that it will be possible to travel and use telephones abroad. i do not know of any country where consumers would benefit from high national prices. i think it is a good aim if this legislation also increases transparency, because why on earth should we defend the fact that the cost of data in one country can be 100 times higher than in another country or 10 times higher than the cost of telephone calls? i think you all should go to your countries and ask whether technology is really that much more expensive or wages or what, because the differences between countries are really big. this could be a good addition that we'll be able to make when we get transparency. we are demonstrating the need for the eu, for regulation and for transparency. we also need additional investment, because each additional investment reduces the unit cost, and thus europeans will have access to more mobile data and the services it produces.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, when mr president poroshenko was in the eastern partnership summit in riga two years ago, he was referring to demonstrators outside the window who had banners saying ‘i was born visa-free’, and he repeated those words, and i think it was excellent food for thought for us. so now, finally, we are approaching the day when ukrainian citizens can make short-term visits without a visa to the european union. i am speaking on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, which has paid close attention to the developments in ukraine: visiting the country and also organising a hearing, together with the commission, with the eu advisory mission ukraine and with the council of europe in brussels, where we studied the state of the reforms in the judiciary. and while we are rejoicing with the ukrainians that they finally have this visa-free access to the european union, we should not give up reminding them that the reform of the judiciary and especially the measures against high-level corruption must continue, and we have with great concern read news that there would be a total misunderstanding that also those fighting corruption would have to be put on the same line with those who actually are in the position to conduct corruptive measures – that they would have to declare their assets and situation. i hope that it will be set right in ukraine.
mr president, first of all let me thank the rapporteurs and everyone involved, the court of auditors, and i also welcome commissioner oettinger to his first discharge from that chair. having one minute on the discharge is like reading out loud a random page of the bible so i will only choose two things tonight in my short speech. a very valuable observation – not maybe a finding, because we all know this – but it is a fact that the budgetary cycle needs to be changed. this is number one. number two perhaps is the ever-growing importance of emphasising performance. those are the two things that i choose to say tonight in one minute. it would be nice sometime to do this in a shorter timespan so that we would be able to react faster to deficiencies and problems.
for the verts/ale group mr president, commissioner, the working document on the textile initiative published today is disappointing in that parliament also reiterates its call for a legally binding due diligence initiative in the lola sánchez caldentey report. i am sure that this is the only way that responsible companies can gain the competitive advantage they deserve, because there is a huge amount of activity in this sector that does not respect human rights and labour standards and that pollutes the environment. the commission has many good voluntary initiatives in this working document, but none of them guarantee that these responsible companies will finally get the competitive situation they need, where irresponsible companies will not try to fight them. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the commission should also make every effort to ensure that the producing countries have full freedom of association, so that responsible companies also have someone to negotiate with on decent wages.
in writing. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sanchez caldentey, for a good report. today it is almost impossible for the consumer to obtain reliable information about the country of origin and the conditions under which the clothing was produced. another important aspect is the harmful chemicals contained in textiles. many everyday textiles containing hazardous chemicals used in production are banned or regulated by reach in europe, such as formaldehyde or perfluorocarbons. when clothes are washed, harmful chemicals are released. these textiles are not only dangerous at the manufacturing stage and for workers in the supply chain, but also dangerous for consumers in everyday use. chemicals in clothes are released into the water system when they are washed, which puts a strain on the environment. consumers should be informed of the consequences of cheap clothing. be aware of the effects of lighter-colored clothing and clothing that is easier to wash. environmental and health issues are particularly important. the eu should take a strong line to make textile and clothing supply chains cleaner and safer than they are today. the human rights of workers in manufacturing should also be respected more.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i was the shadow rapporteur for the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the original draft report had some issues, but that is pretty normal in this house. i am sorry to say that, unfortunately, the discussions in the shadow group did not improve it very much. instead, it turned into the usual christmas tree, and i have one point of information for the honourable members of parliament: we have eight months to go to christmas. we also have some formulations in this report which are unfortunate, and information point number two is that the european investment bank (eib) is a bank, not a charity. by filing a report which is skewed in very many respects, and thus putting into the report things that actually should not be there, we did not actually help the eib. therefore, the alde group decided to vote against this report, because we need to have an actual and more effective way of dealing with reports like this. that does not mean that we withdraw our acknowledgement of the good work in the eib, but we need to have some order in this house.
mr president, the european investment bank is a major european financier and its decisions are guiding both regional development and the internal development of europe. it is good that the investment bank has financed projects to combat climate change. it could have been more active in this area, but it is good that in the coming years the investment bank has set itself the target of 35% of climate finance by 2020. the second point i would like to make is that, up to now, the bulk of the eib's financing has been directed towards transport investments. the common challenge now is for the investment bank to direct funding towards transport solutions that do not rely on fossil fuels. the role of the investment bank, how it directs its money and what kind of projects it gives money to, must be emphasized here. i also support increased investment in energy efficiency, renewable energy projects and the circular economy. these have a great potential to improve the eu's competitiveness and these projects also contribute to the fight against climate change.
madam president, for the european investment bank to be able to perform its mandate successfully it needs guidance and control from the eu budgetary authorities. we have to aim to provide the eib with the best solutions to achieve its policy objectives, to accelerate innovation and economic recovery and to promote employment, social, economic and environmental sustainability. we want the eib to stand on firm and strong financial ground. the eib should have a strong mandate with a strong investment portfolio, especially in the framework of the european fund for strategic investments. this strong mandate requires strong monitoring. while the eib should be mostly independent in its expertise to select the most appropriate beneficiaries, it also has to follow strict rules and guidelines monitored by the budgetary authority and the public in general. there is always room for improvement and we hope that the relations between the european parliament and the eib will further deepen to ensure the strong mandate and effective activity of the investment bank. enhancing the monitoring of the eib’s performance would be an important step towards a more accountable and effective investment bank.
mr president, commissioner moscovici has also drawn attention today to the needs and concerns of the citizens, so i will give you one recent example from finland, where there has been a discussion about the high remuneration and allowances of the directors of the european investment bank. compensation in addition to salary can reach hundreds of thousands of euros. they are also paid as compensation for leaving a gainful job if the manager decides to change employers to employers paying less. it is not even necessarily a golden handshake to smooth the change of manager, but compensation is paid to managers who leave entirely on their own initiative. these damages challenging the law are not limited to the european investment bank, but also to many others, such as commissioners. do you find these hidden compensations reasonable? doesn't their generosity come close to the corruption built into the system?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will start with some remarks in english due to mr dijsselbloem’s presence and then i will continue in my barbaric swedish. in this house, we usually use quite colourful language and as soon as anybody else uses some colourful language then all hell breaks loose. i, as a journalist and as an avid debater, have used words far worse than mr dijsselbloem. i think we should have some sense of humour when we reach out to each other. even if you probably won’t be very pleased by this exculpation, then i have a great understanding that we, under stress, and with a great heart, discuss things which are hard to discuss. vår mest grundläggande utmaning gäller inte bara grekland utan nästan alla länder. under de kommande veckorna kommer den utmaningen att gälla t.ex. frankrike i högsta grad. alla våra medlemsländer slits i dag av en diskussion där man å ena sidan framför förändringsförslag som egentligen inte är förändringsförslag utan som sist och slutligen bara är ett sätt att försöka lägga skulden för egna försyndelser – försyndelser som inte har med kvinnor eller sprit att göra – på någon annan. det är den diskussionen vi för i alla länder, och den är livsfarlig. i dagens situation och i den situationen som kommer att uppstå, som redan har uppstått i grekland och som kommer att uppstå inom några veckor i frankrike, har vi en tidsram att lösa dessa problem. den tidsramen kan vi ungefär bestämma. vi ska klara av att skapa förtroende för detta system under månaderna och åren fram till parlamentsvalet 2019. om vi inte klarar av det, kommer vi att stå inför jättestora utmaningar. klarar frankrike inte av att lösa sina problem, så vet vi att det på den andra sidan av det politiska spektret kommer att finnas ett hänsynslöst arbete för att undergräva alla realistiska försök att lösa problemen. samma sak såg vi också i grekland. medan jag var inblandad i trojkarapporten stötte vi på den här oviljan att se realistiskt på våra utmaningar. så länge vi inte ser realistiskt på våra utmaningar, kommer vi inte heller att klara av att lösa dem. vi har en jättestor förståelse för greklands folk. min far var som poet och journalist en stor vän av det folket och skrev en bok om det folket. vi har alltså ett stort hjärta för grekland, men vi ska ha ett lika stort hjärta för dem som försöker komma fram med de realistiska lösningarna.
mr president, i have three points and a question. first, the growth of the greek basic surplus is unlikely to last for very long. according to the international monetary fund, this was due to one-off factors, such as a higher tax burden. in the longer term, according to the well-known professors panizza and eichengreen, it is unrealistic to expect greece to have surpluses sufficient to cover its debt. secondly, as german chancellor of the exchequer wolfgang schäuble has pointed out, the lisbon treaty prohibits the nominal debt of a euro area member country from being cut, and it is not even debt that is greece's biggest problem, but competitiveness. thirdly, instead of restoring competitiveness, economic adjustment programmes have deepened poverty problems, generating generations of lost opportunities, even though there has always been a faster and less painful way to restore external competitiveness, namely the abandonment of the euro. is money more valuable to us than freedom, equality, fraternity, the welfare of europeans or other great european values? is it not time to recognise the euro for what it really is, a medium of exchange?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, thank you to the colleagues for your excellent cooperation on this matter. i think it is downright criminal that at the same time that huge amounts of edible food are being wasted in the eu, for example, in 2014 55 million people could not afford a decent meal every other day, and the following year it was estimated that almost 119 million people were at risk of poverty and exclusion from all systems of society. there is much that can be done about food waste, but to do that we need to define things in a mutually agreed way from the very beginning, so that member states and stakeholders can measure it more precisely and develop ways of reducing the amount of waste and using the rest in other ways, for example by donating edible food to those in need. hunger caused by poverty can be alleviated by surplus food that has been declared safe, but that means that surplus food must be rationally available to people. there's a lot of room for improvement in the food chain as a whole. food is europe's most transported product in terms of kilometres: each year, food and food products travel some half a million kilometres on our roads. that's a trip that could take you around the world a few more times, so local food production, if anything, is worth the investment.
thank you, chairman. every third kilo of food goes bad. in the eu, most food waste occurs in households. the solution is also to be found close to home: in each of us, in ourselves, in the consumers. the food that ends up in the food basket is a burden on the economy and the environment. it's been produced, packaged, transported and shelved for nothing. food waste raises the total cost of the entire food value chain. the climate impact of food waste is also responsible for around a quarter of the eu's annual co2 emissions. that's a lot, and that means we have to take action. consumers need help to reduce food waste. the important thing is to influence people's behavior. the more tangible the benefits to themselves and their loved ones, the more likely they are to change their behaviour. of course, reducing food waste requires much more than a change in attitude. action must be taken, including the whole chain of commerce. commit to smart, cost-effective solutions to reduce waste. while we wait for these innovations, each of us can initiate our own personal destruction plans. first, by putting on the plate what you eat and buying what you consume.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, reducing food waste is not just about avoiding the carbon dioxide emissions estimated at some 170 million tonnes or wasting resources, but also about how we can feed the entire growing world population in the future. it is not possible to increase food production dramatically, so attention must be paid to the food that is lost from the chain. i hope that the problem will be looked at in the most holistic way possible. as an example, i see that, for example, animal welfare negligence should be counted as a loss: deaths of farmed animals due to poor treatment, inadequate care or other negligence should be counted as a 'loss'. information enables action, and in solving our food production problems, that information must be as broad as possible. it is also important to have a discussion about our eating habits, because one of the biggest problems is the growing global consumption of meat. i call for a fundamental change in thinking, moving towards a comprehensive food policy that integrates all stages of food production into a single framework.
madam president, commissioner, the relocation scheme has been a failure because member states are reluctant to implement it, for reasons that are very understandable. this kind of immigration is extremely costly to their societies both economically and socially. we should abandon the concept of relocation and we should also abandon the idea that mass immigration to europe is a solution to the problems of the third world. what we need is a strict, australian-style ‘push back’ policy at our external borders to stem the chaotic, illegal flow to europe. then, we need to give more support to the countries of origin, the countries of transit and the people in refugee camps.
in writing. mr president, globalisation has changed our lives at a rapid pace. connectivity, information and services move almost in real time on the internet, people study and work across borders and travel more than ever before. international trade is a source of income for europe: one in seven jobs in the eu is export-dependent. every additional billion of exports means, on average, 14,000 new jobs for us. however, the benefits of globalisation have not been distributed evenly. the european union is also facing a large number of traditional jobs that have been lost as a result of increased international competition. many citizens are rightly concerned about their future. the challenges of globalisation must be addressed at both the european union and member state level and at local level. the european union has the potential to be a strong driver in the management of globalisation. we are the world's largest trading, investment and development finance power. we must ensure that international trade and taxation are conducted in a fair manner. member states have a responsibility to train their citizens, to update their skills and to reform the labour market so that everyone has the opportunity and the capacity to keep up with the changes in the world of work. transparency has benefited us and will continue to benefit us as we take part in shaping the direction of globalisation.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, many of us remember when the first ships carrying somalis started to come in the early 1990s. it is unimaginable that some people who then found refuge and life in europe have colleagues and family members who ended up in dadaab and in a smaller camp called kakuma, which i visited some years ago. some of these people have been living there for 25 years without any perspective on life outside the camp. happily, of course, the camp has formed some good relations with the local communities and i think this is something that has to be supported, but the surrounding communities also need investment in development so that they can prosper and live beside the camp. i think that it is very important to note the promising cooperation of the intergovernmental authority on development of the region (igad). they recently had a summit, which was also mentioned in our resolution, and have admirably agreed to facilitate a voluntary return back home. we should in no way support any kind of forced returns to a situation which climate change is worsening, and where famine is threatening people’s lives – the commissioner mentioned internally displaced people – and so we also need, as europeans, to take our responsibility for resettlement of some of the people living in the camp.
mr president, i want to join the thanks to the commissioner for a very powerful intervention on how the european union is using all its possibilities to condemn these atrocities that we have been hearing about during the last two months. this horrible persecution is, on one hand, linked to the emphasis on what they call traditional values – and believe me, according to traditional values, homosexuality is something that should not exist. this is also linked, indirectly at least, to the decriminalisation of domestic violence in russia some time ago, because ‘family’ means the ‘traditional family’ and what happens inside the family is something that should not be touched. in this extreme way, we have seen honour killings which are tolerated by the state, even induced by the state, and we have to be very strong. in chechnya the situation overall is very bad. human rights defenders are persecuted against, and the committee against torture saw their offices burnt down by security forces not long ago.
in writing. the european council of 29 april set out its objectives as the basis for the brexit negotiations. i welcome the fact that the negotiations are aimed at creating legal certainty, ensuring the status of citizens and the ability of businesses to operate. whatever your views on brexit, we now have a historic opportunity to reduce the costs and administration of the eu as well. at the same time, we can show that everyone is participating in the savings revolutions. several member states have already indicated that they do not accept the uk's net contribution being passed on to others. for example, swedish prime minister löfven stated in march 2017 that sweden wants to reduce eu spending by the uk's net contribution. the eu offers many benefits that member states cannot even dream of. the eu charges very low taxes on its tens of thousands of employees, often less than half of what the member states charge. in addition, eu child and housing allowances are paid. the various transitional allowances, even in the hundreds of thousands of euros, for example when one leaves the european investment bank for a lower-paid job after a couple of years, are also excessive. the two seats and, of course, the constantly growing number of agencies and their staff also entail a completely extra cost. the eu must be more careful with its spending. we must ensure that the eu does not move towards greater economic solidarity and federalism. the eu must respect the principle of proximity, that decisions are taken close to the citizens, in the national states. brexit offers a real opportunity for self-examination and for the eu to correct its mistakes. we can't afford not to use it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, by way of a metaphor the european central bank could actually be described as an operating system. you know from your own experiences with windows that open-source operating systems (oss) do not always run very smoothly. (though if it was a linux created by a young finn with the nice surname torvalds, it would probably be a totally different matter). sometimes with a bad operating system, we have to run it in safe mode, and that is actually what the european central bank has been doing for the last few years. but my dear friend loones is actually picking up the wrong music: abba is not qualitatively high music, it is dancing music for those who like it. it is high time to play bob dylan’s ‘the times they are a changin’’. why? with a forthcoming deal between france and germany, we will have a time of change in the eu. that again will probably produce a turn back to interest rates. those who are very interested in medieval politics know that in the medieval world interest rates were thought to be a sin. that is probably slightly the way in which the central bank has operated in the last few years. we need to go back to real interest rates, but as soon as we go back to real interest rates, we are going to have severe problems in those countries with a large state debt because what was 70%, 80% and 90% will all of a sudden be 100%. that puts on the agenda a new question: we need the redemption fund, because without the redemption fund those countries will be dragged down by an unsustainable state debt. when we speak about operating systems we know for sure that operating systems have bugs, and some of the bugs in the european system are actually not due to the european central bank. they are due to national states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to wish the commissioner plenty of strength for the meeting tomorrow when the commission will be discussing progress on the commitments that have been made by bangladesh. there is a clear list of demands from the european union. commissioner, would you agree that, in the event that no conceivable progress is made in the commitments and the demands, there would be the prospect that the commission could turn to the ilo and ask for an investigation into the breaches of international labour law. at the end of the day, i think we should take this new compact very seriously as it is an admirable effort to promote value—based supply chains. but, if the other party does not live up to expectations, i believe some conclusions must be reached. secondly, i would like to mention that 500 members have indeed called for binding, mandatory measures on due diligence for international companies. i believe that we should repeat that demand because it is something that is needed in order to have a level playing field.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good work he has done, this is a good report. cohesion policy and the eu budget in general should have a financing system that allows the budget to be used, but also attracts private investors, thereby filling the financing gap. i would like to stress that lending should not replace grants entirely, but should aim at an appropriate combination that best exploits businesses, regions and local government. when we look at the eu, both more and less developed member states, and their investment needs, we see that the funding gap varies between sectors and priorities. but one thing is clear: other sources of funding are needed in addition to grants. the solution is in the loan. the european investment bank must play a more central role in this. the european investment bank was set up under the treaty of rome, but now it is time for it to play a more central role in cohesion policy too. it already provides loans, loan guarantees and capital, which together with grants and subsidies form a functioning system of private and public financing. the problems of financing are also due to the lack of adequate information on the association. training and guidance are needed at all levels of government to find the right range of financing for each situation. the role of the european investment bank as a disseminator of information should also be strengthened. the appropriate range of financing, considered for each situation, is an important factor in creating a cohesion policy for the future.
mr president, i ask you to refer this report back to committee in accordance with rule 59a. i have spoken to the legal services today: this report we are voting on is not the same as the one we voted on in the committee on culture. the thinking has changed radically since then. the reason given is partly that the legal service has since changed the text. i do not blame the rapporteurs for this, but when the legal service says that the text is no longer the same, i think it would be reasonable to take account of the proposals made by the members and to return the text to committee and take it forward with the times. it cannot be that the committee approves the text and then it is radically changed and voted on in this chamber. there is also the question of the legal protection of meps. you have to have good legislation and not be in a hurry to run.
mr president, i would like to ask you about article 190. the point is that if you are informed this morning that the text is radically different from what has been adopted, i do not know whether the articles will help you. i think this house should then consider that the legislation is appropriate. 190 then.
mr president, i have already concluded that in the recent speeches, but perhaps it was not clear from the interpretation. i would ask you to apply article 190.
madam president, historically anti-semitism in europe has been connected to extreme nationalism. however, this historical background should not make us blind to what is going on today. the new rise in anti-jewish hatred and violence is linked to immigration from muslim countries. research shows that anti-jewish attitudes are mainstream in muslim communities. unfortunately these communities, together with the so-called liberals, have been very successful in portraying muslims as victims and victims only, thereby placing them beyond justified criticism. the left, with their pathological anti-israel agenda, is not very helpful. it is not enough to condemn anti—semitism in general terms. the problem must be properly identified and recognised if we want to do something about it.
in writing. the initiative to combat anti-semitism is a good and necessary one. but there's one big problem with that. the resolution calls for stronger measures to be taken against anti-semitism and calls on the member states to take more steps to prosecute people for anti-semitism. this is a good thing. the problem is in paragraph 2, which defines anti-semitism. the definition is copied from an organization called ihra, or the international holocaust remembrance alliance. the ihra's definition is two-fold. first, a brief, more general description of what anti-semitism is. that's good. the following lists examples of what anti-semitism might be. they have problems. they argue that normal criticism of israel, for example, for its racist practices and many other issues related to fundamental freedom of speech and normal criticism, would be anti-semitic. for this reason, for example, the european fundamental rights agency stopped using the ihra definition of anti-semitism. i hope the ihra definition is removed. after that, the initiative is excellent.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the changes introduced by the committees of the european parliament have turned this attempt to support ukraine into a missed opportunity. this will be a great mistake. it is very hypocritical to see what parliament is doing to the commission’s proposal. we should not forget that trade policy is a powerful instrument and should be used to strongly support the eu’s foreign policy objectives, especially in the neighbourhood. in this neighbourhood, relations with our partners are unavoidably closer, and the values enshrined in our treaties also play a significant role. the importance of our values is shown by the special emphasis that we have put on the fight against corruption in ukraine. progress has been made on this topic, but more needs to be made. in decisions concerning our closest partners, we should not let tariffs or quotas obscure our vision, which is to help ukraine, a country whose sovereignty has been blatantly violated by russia, and which now sees how parliament turning its back on the further development of its economic and social situation.
madam president, in the current political climate and situation, the eu must take the lead on international ocean governance. these two upcoming conferences give us a good chance to take that role and gather broader political support. it could be that maritime ecosystems are actually under much greater stress than land ecosystems and that we are at the limits of the endurance of maritime ecosystems. both demersal and pelagic systems are on the brink of extinction without the ability to recover and reproduce good and healthy fish stocks for the future. we would actually need a moratorium, at least in half of those systems used. then there is the issue of micro—plastics, chemicalisation, dumping of waste, use of resources – like deep—sea mining, which was mentioned – and oil drilling. if we do not act now, it might be too late in five or ten years. there are of course the special challenges concerning the arctic seas, which we discussed earlier here in the parliament. so i hope that the commission takes up this task and role.
mr president, digitalisation is a megatrend that is changing the world very rapidly now and it is important that europe is strongly involved in this development. we know that digitalisation has brought new innovations and business opportunities - and it also offers companies the opportunity to become more energy efficient. in particular, there are two themes that europe needs to focus on as we accelerate digitalisation. the second is precisely infrastructure, and the related innovations, which mr boni spoke very strongly about here, in the form of 5g networks. the need for mobile data is increasing by 60-100% every year. and it is clear that we need a lot of investment now in high-speed networks all over europe and we need to ensure that europe has a regulatory environment that encourages companies to invest in europe and in high-speed connections in europe. the second big issue is improving people's skills. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we cannot be competitive in the global economy if we do not have a sufficient number of skilled workers. this is something that must now be addressed in all the member states.
mr president, we must make fast and comprehensive networks available to everyone in europe and europe must be able to take the lead in the introduction of 5g technology. 5g is an enabler as we digitise industry and transport, modernise and digitise european construction, increase the effectiveness of health services with new tools and enable the deployment of digital services and sensors. the key is a skilled and trained workforce. it is an increasingly important driver of high processing value and of the competitiveness of industry and services. innovation in europe generates economic growth and provides a platform for european industrial solutions. i support the commission's openings on digital innovation hubs and world-class platforms and partnerships. the resources need to be coordinated better, and we also have a duty to ensure that legislation is compatible with the digital world.
mr president, the independence of the media is of the utmost importance in a democratic society. it is human nature that many journalists have their own opinions on the subject they are working on - and so do media owners in many countries. sometimes they forget that the media's role is to act independently and not as the producer of an ideology. i can give one striking example of finland's closeness. in finland, the major media agreed, in the run-up to the 1994 eu referendum, to avoid critical statements about the eu. in many countries, wealthy citizens also own the media, because they want to influence democratic decision-making through their votes and their wallets. it is very important that we also have publicly owned operators who remain markedly impartial.
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. one of the questions raised in the budget committee on horizon 2020 was whether there is any added value in member states paying the money to the commission. the commission sits on this money for a while and thinks about what different programmes it could possibly finance with it, and then the money goes back to the member states. the natural question then arises: is there any added value to this round? or is it just a transaction that wastes resources rather than adds something? the interesting thing about the commission's response to this point was that this way you are actually creating international research teams, international research programmes, and de facto also creating new and better research teams than before. for that reason we were quite satisfied with the commission's answer to our questions and believe that there is a great future for the following development programmes as well.
mr president, high-level skills, science and research are the prerequisites for europe's future success. it is important that, even in times of economic stress, adequate investment is made in research and science. it is worrying that at present only a few eu member states - finland, sweden, denmark and austria - spend more than 3% of their gdp on research and development as set out in the target. it is important that all member states are encouraged to move along this path. horizon 2020 is the most important programme for us at european level to promote research and innovation. we know that the most important thing now is to ensure that we have sufficient resources for the programme to continue, and i warmly recommend that we increase the funding for the programme. it is essential that scientific excellence and basic research continue to be considered as a key objective of that programme. the emphasis should also be placed on the grant-based system, as it is the only suitable system for financing basic research. the administration must continue to make efforts to facilitate the processes in order to make them as smooth as possible for the researchers.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, commission, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all very much for the very substantial and constructive cooperation. i hope we will always remember that we are not reducing emissions for the eu or for the administration, but for the future of humanity and our planet. in the future, when we look at the responsibility and implementation of measures in the transport sector in particular, we must bear in mind that subsidiarity means that the ball is in the court of the member states, and in particular of their urban areas. the role of urban areas and member states in combating both co2 and other health-related emissions is crucial. urban transport accounts for 23% of the co2 emissions of european transport, but unfortunately the eu has no direct competence in urban transport policy and solutions. i hope that the commission will do everything it can to promote the spread of good practice and to promote good cooperation between member states so that we can direct funding for all projects specifically towards reducing emissions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is in very many ways a discussion about balances and imbalances. we have a lot of political imbalances, we have a lot of environmental imbalances and we have a lot of economic imbalances, and they all act together. sometimes in a happy way, usually in a less than happy way. the question about these three files – effort-sharing, emissions trading, and land use, land-use change and forestry – is in the same way a triangle and a very difficult one. it could turn out to be a bermuda triangle in which money, hope and environment are those things, or it could show itself to be a functional but very precarious triangle where all the three parts are deeply interconnected. if we are not able to keep up the emissions trading part of it, then things will fall down under effort-sharing and ultimately in the sinks in the forests. so, we need to have a very strong political approach to the problems we are seeing here. if we do not manage this, if we give in to bad information, bad tweets from the tweet house – formerly it was called the white house but it has got a new name: the tweet house – if you do not do this properly, we are doomed. therefore, the question of how we manage effort-sharing is of utmost importance and i think that gerben-jan gerbrandy has done a terrific job to be able to put the pieces together and be slightly ahead of the curve, because we know that the closer we come to 2040-2050, the harder it will be. so thank you, but now we are in for a fight.
madam president, there is still a strong tendency to talk only about emu, and that shows that we have a very short memory. nobody cares to remember what happened after 1971: nobody wants to remember the tunnel, or the snake in the tunnel, and all the havoc they created. then, all of a sudden, when we decide to get some systematic approach to the whole problem, then half of europe more or less breaks in, because they had to come here. i think part of this discussion is still about finding a culprit for a diverse range of things that happened outside our control. things happened which we could not have any control over, but one of the issues – and i think mr loones spoke about it just now – is that, at the same time, we have a very sharp technological conflict going on. we have very steep technological development, and it is very easy to get left behind.
in writing. there are big issues at the meeting, on which i would like to make a brief comment on the common security and defence policy. i warmly support european defence cooperation and believe that the meeting should reflect on its new direction, both in principle and in practice. in this world political situation, the eu countries are each other's best protection. pooling & sharing would free up resources for the most important security work for the eu: threat prevention. the eu-wide defence cannot be organised on the same principle as the defence of the nation state, so a new way of thinking is needed, not an eu army modelled on the nation states. modern security enhancement is needed to improve cybersecurity, for example, and it is not cheap either. there too, the member states have concrete additional benefits from cooperation! the compulsory increase in defence spending is not suitable for finland, as it is not for many other countries. the idea of a 500 million dollar earmark for research by the arms industry is also unjustifiable to the public and the scientific community. good, effective european security cooperation is the best way to prepare for external and internal threats.
mr president, when a small number of academics and civic activists voted against tax havens, illegal tax evasion and legal but questionable tax avoidance a decade ago, it was branded outright as a hoax. no one thinks that way anymore, and that's great. the greatest value of pana-type bodies is that they encourage both the eu commission and the member states to improve their performance and to take more ambitious initiatives. we have examined a number of finance ministers, other politicians and representatives of international organisations and companies, including malta, in the pana and taxe committees. the development that has taken place is an example that the world can be changed when the right people, the right resources and the strong will to change are involved. this work must continue to be supported at all levels. i hope that the projects that have been launched will be able to be monitored and evaluated. the work of the media, researchers and ngos is also of great value in this respect.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have tried to show a little understanding for malta in previous discussions. the understanding is that it can be quite difficult to find a functioning economy if you are a small rock in the middle of the mediterranean and there is not a large reserve of natural resources to use. at the same time, we are a little concerned at the moment about the process we are seeing in connection with the money laundering directive. we have been trying to find rules to enforce in connection with the money laundering directive, and it turns out that the maltese presidency is not very good at making clear and simple decisions about the real owner. the central point in our attempts to find the loopholes in tax policy is to find the real owner. if the maltese presidency does not dare to raise this issue, it raises suspicions - suspicions that it has not always been handled in the way it should be handled. there are other clues. another issue raised in the money laundering directive is the question of who is a politically exposed person and that issue has also not been addressed.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. mr president, it is very good that this esif programme has been launched. but as has been pointed out here, this programme needs to be strengthened. we've had some investment issues. this is the very important aspect of regionalisation. it must be remembered that the purpose of this programme is to add value and to fill in the gaps that have now been created by other programmes, i.e. to create added value and thereby raise european know-how and european innovation. the internationalisation aspect is very important here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but as i said, i hope that this quality will not be confined to one part of europe, but that it could serve the whole of the european union. it is essential that these investments bring new added value to the whole european arena in the long and medium term.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. the collection of tales known as the thousand and one nights is part of the common european cultural heritage and is available in all the european languages. in that collection of fairy tales, we also find the magic formula "sesam te opere". the efsi was intended to be seen as the 'single window' to remedy the investment deficit in europe. now we don't really know; we see the economy going up, but we don't really know how it's connected, whether it was efsi that opened here or whether it was something else. we really need a more sober assessment here. what is also a little disturbing in this context is the decision-making process. if you have a decision-making process that requires unanimity, you run the risk of having the stupidest, the most ignorant or the laziest member of the management team dictate the decisions. that is why i do not think that the decision-making process as it was designed was a good one. the second issue we have faced is risk assessment. here i think that part of the management team also went down bad paths. we know that german motorways can be very risky, but the risk does not depend on the investment but on the way in which they are driven. but once again, back to the tale of the thousand and one nights. the story where the magic words "to open you" are, it's the story of ali baba and the 40 thieves, but now it's in the way that the number of thieves is not 40, the number of thieves is 28. throughout this process, the member states have shown a total inability to understand how this is really done. if they read the european cultural treasure, they would be in a slightly better position.
in writing. the report is exaggerating in calling the esif a success, since the demonstration is mainly the use of money. the report shows that the esf supplants other eu sources of funding because it is more cost-effective for businesses. the report suggests that the classification of the european investment bank as a specific operation would ensure complementarity. however, the report also notes that not all projects have been genuinely complementary, even partially. the assessment of the employment and growth effects is difficult in general, as it requires information on complementarity and externalities. in future, the esi funds will not compete with other eu sources of funding but will cooperate with them. as a consequence, the assessment of the effects on economic growth and employment is further complicated by the inability to target the potential impact of individual funds. in this way, we cannot see any possible success or that the same results could have been achieved with the existing financial instruments.
the rapporteur. mr president, the platform economy is growing very fast in the world today, but the challenge for us europeans is that europe's share of the market value of network platforms is very small. the key now is to make europe a region that encourages companies to innovate and invest in europe and to grow and develop their business here. we had a very broad agreement with the shadow rapporteurs and the various groups that we must create a fair competition and a fair, supportive market environment for the whole of europe. we know that the platform economy has brought enormous benefits to consumers and businesses alike. it has created a whole new marketplace for goods, services and digital content. the role of platforms today is also very important in the distribution of news, advertising and cultural content, and of course in social interaction between people. for small businesses and start-ups, online platforms have created a whole new marketplace where they can offer their products and services around the world. they have brought many new business models within our reach as well. in the same way, they have created new jobs and thus been able to promote the creation of new business. the digital platform economy has brought consumers more choice, price competition and comparability. we have a lot of positive opportunities ahead of us. but on the other hand, we also have great challenges in how to develop europe as a place where it is worthwhile to grow your own business and where thriving online platforms can also emerge. the most important thing is to be able to create a more level playing field across europe, fair competition and transparency and an innovation-friendly environment that encourages ideas. the major challenge is to remove from the internal market the obstacles, both technical and economic, which still limit the whole of europe's action. we know that there are still great differences between member states in this area. the topical and difficult issues which we discussed very much with various representatives and groups in the course of the preparation of this report relate specifically to the question of whether separate regulation of platforms is necessary or whether sectoral legislation is sufficient and is a better alternative, and on the other hand, whether the e-commerce directive and competition law are also sufficiently adapted to the current digital world and what is the responsibility of intermediaries for the content and services which are distributed on these platforms. i personally think that it is important, as far as regulation is concerned, that we should not fall into over-regulation in europe. it is better to approach the network platforms specifically by sector and to proceed in the same way here in the online world as in the offline world specifically by sector to examine the legislation and the conditions for operation. the commission is currently examining a number of pieces of legislation to see how well they fit into the digital world. this is something that all the member states, and the commission too, must now be encouraged to do. often we know that we already have legislation, but it is not implemented well enough. here we have the enhancement across europe. as regards the liability of intermediaries, we have the directive on electronic commerce and the systems of limited liability of intermediaries for illegal content, and they work very well when it comes to the trade in goods. the commission is now required to provide new guidance to enable platforms to better understand how to apply the notification and deletion procedures. they should also be given more information on voluntary means of tackling illegal and inappropriate content. it is clear that the platforms cannot and do not want to take on the role of the truth commission, but we must find the right balance in how we prevent illegalities and yet at the same time safeguard freedom of expression. it is important that the platforms work closely with the legislators to find a good balance. i believe that consumer confidence is the very cornerstone of a thriving platform economy. i would like to thank all the honourable members and all the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation they have shown in this very challenging cooperation between the two committees, and i would also like to thank the commission for the good cooperation and the proposals you have already prepared and are now preparing.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues and the representatives of the committees, and of course in particular my co-rapporteur, mr juvin, for this work and for the good debate. a number of speakers here called for and demanded new legislation. it is clear that the digital economy brings us new types of challenges, but the right solution is not necessarily to add more legislation, but it is important to assess our existing legislation and ensure that it is properly implemented in the different member states. for example, competition law is a very important tool when it comes to large network platforms, but its implementation needs to be speeded up and the resolution of these cases needs to be speeded up in the digital world. the commission has acted in the right direction. the other directive that is very important to us is the e-commerce directive, which already clearly states that if content is illegal, platforms must remove it. it is now necessary to take account of the fact that in different member states slightly different things are defined as illegal. for example, right now, the big challenge we have is hate speech. the definition of hate speech in the various member states has proved to be very different, and the platforms have a very demanding task to decide in a few hours what is hate speech and what is not. here we have to find the right balance, not to jeopardize freedom of speech, but still to ensure that the content is trustworthy and correct. here too, platforms can take on a lot of responsibility and assess their own practices. it is clear that consumers must be properly protected, but i believe that above all we must invest in ensuring that citizens are well equipped to operate in the digital world as well. it means that we need to have a good level of education, so that people have the ability to evaluate the products and services that are offered to them in the digital world and otherwise, and that they have the ability to make genuine choices and decisions. the transparency of the online platforms themselves is also of course important. it is important that we find a good balance between where legislation is needed and what can be solved by good cooperation with the online platforms.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, however we are going to decide on this, it is clear that this is an unforeseen, unprecedented case. two friendly countries, two eu eastern neighbours, and what happened was that there was a reported abduction from the territory of an independent country. i fully see why the president margvelashvili of georgia has said that this is not only a question of upholding human rights and freedom of the media, but it is also about defending georgian statehood. that is why we all have reason to believe that georgia is conducting a totally transparent and independent investigation into what happened. we are faced with two completely different stories on what happened and we need to get this right, because this should never happen again. the main thing is that, whatever we decide today about voting today or in three weeks’ time, the commission has to do their utmost to get mr afgan mukhtarli free.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask my good colleague, maria grapini, whether she would look into the resolution again, because it’s precisely asking for an investigation. so it’s not that we want to postpone the investigation; we want to have a serious, independent, transparent investigation on what actually happened, and this is the point in the resolution. both sides of the border.
madam president, it is important to check all the possible facts and mistakes, and there is one factual mistake in paragraph 8. in fact, the body of mehman galandarov, the blogger and activist who died in the custody of azerbaijani authorities on 28 april this year was returned to his family, so can i propose as an oral amendment that we delete the last part of paragraph 8 which is as follows ‘and whose body was not returned to his family?’. it was returned.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sorin moisă, for a good report. as he and many others have already pointed out in this debate, moldova is currently facing many challenges, both economic and political. it is important to remember that the purpose of macro-financial assistance has never been to interfere with the political decisions of the recipient country but purely to create economic stability around the eu for countries like moldova. moldova has recovered slowly from the banking crisis of 2014 but remains the poorest country in europe. the creation of an economically sustainable basis requires macro-financial assistance. as for the much-debated reform of the electoral law, it is - as the venice commission also said - a matter for the sovereign state and the eu has no power to interfere in decisions on it. however, the eu's most important economic and political work must be based on its own values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i therefore think it is reasonable to make these conditions also conditional on financial assistance. moldova, as an independent state, has the right to make its own political decisions, but the european union must uphold its own values. i am therefore very pleased with the agreement reached in the negotiations with the commission and the council and with the conditions for financing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there has been an agreement between the council, the commission and parliament since 2013 on a certain model macrofinancial assistance and now, with the case of moldova, i think that more and more we start to see that this instrument has to be more linked with the conditionalities on reforms of the judiciary and other aspects of rule of law, of democracy, respect for human rights and, as has been said by many speakers already, the situation in moldova has not improved as we would expect from an associated partner country of the european union. therefore i believe that this macrofinancial assistance is different from the other agreements that have been struck between the institution since 2013. we start to see that an instrument that takes the form of budget support needs to be based on trust that the money is going to where it is needed and, as the previous speaker, mr scholz, said, that we are not generating debts for the future. we are indeed generating debts for the future if the commission and the external action service are not very consistent with the conditioning of this macrofinancial assistance with, for instance, a very strong fight against corruption, and against money laundering. i must remind the house about the rather recent understanding of the role of moldovan banks, and even of moldovan judges, in some of the biggest money-laundering scandals in our environment. the so-called russian laundromat revealed a lot of the reality of the banking system and the judiciary in moldova and we cannot let that go easily. also we still remember the embezzlement by which one billion euro was transferred from three moldovan banks to shell companies in hong kong and other offshore havens. at the same time as we are fighting against money laundering, against tax evasion, we should also expect that our associated partner countries do their utmost to eradicate these kind of things from their system. so i also, on behalf of the green/european free alliance group, expect the commission to implement and take seriously the joint declaration that the three institutions agreed when we concluded the negotiations, and i also want to hear how the commission is going to follow the situation and implement this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two thirds of the 1.4 billion people living in poverty in the world are women. if these fundamental rights are not respected, these women will not be able to decide about their own bodies, their sexuality and, ultimately, their future. they have no protection against unwanted pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases, or sexual violence, not to mention various other infectious diseases. hiv is currently the leading cause of death among women in the reproductive system worldwide. the greed of some is reflected in the poverty of others and in the increase of disease. lack of prevention and adequate medicines leads to serious epidemics. what are the greatest challenges of our time? climate change, infectious diseases and poverty are all part of the same problem. is it the case, for example, that we in europe are increasingly spending money on defence instead of addressing these concrete, real problems?
the question of the blue card. you left out one serious group, namely, undocumented asylum seekers who remain in the country. in many european countries, they are denied health care. it can be said that this may be a major risk in the future. what do you think about the situation of undocumented immigrants?
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her good work. i am saying that we would have got much better out of this report if the ppe group had not actually, in fact, opposed the more effective proposals that this report would have needed. the key here is reparability, maintenance and access to spare parts. this is a very concrete and important matter. it creates new jobs, conserves natural resources, reduces waste and, in particular, creates jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. we had absolutely good proposals, even more binding legislation, more controls, more good ideas, but i will say it bluntly, the ppe was against all these things.
in writing. the shelf life of products is important for the environment as well as for consumers. it is therefore good that people want to extend the life of products. in earlier decades, refrigerators, freezers, washing machines, stoves, vacuum cleaners, and many other appliances often lasted for decades without failures even under harsh conditions. today, many household appliances contain weak parts that must be replaced within a few years of being put into service. the necessary spare parts and repairs often cost almost as much as a new machine, so it is not worth repairing. in addition, mobile phones, for example, are practically aging in the hands. in many products, programmed ageing occurs after a number of years. i think we should try to extend the warranty periods for all machines and equipment so that companies have an incentive to produce higher quality and longer lasting products. it is environmentally unsustainable for the amount of electronic waste to increase while natural resources are consumed to produce new products. i am also concerned that in reality, unrepairable electronic waste is being exported to developing countries under the pretext that it can still be repaired. such waste exports cause significant environmental problems in the recipient countries and endanger many health gases by polluting the air and groundwater through toxic chemicals that leach into the ground. i think the measures proposed in the report are justified, such as easier repairability, disassembly, availability of spare parts and, for example, the definition of planned obsolescence of products.
the answer to the blue card question. it is great that public country-by-country tax and financial reporting is progressing. ten years ago, it would have been utterly utopian. i personally regret that the turnover threshold of eur 750 million was not reduced to eur 40 million in parliament's proposal. this will put large companies on a par with each other and leave much socially relevant information in the dark. in preparing parliament's position, i pointed out, among other things, that the arguments about the leaking of business secrets were weakly based. competitors of large companies are already able to analyse the business models of their competitors in key eu countries. the required financial statements are available for purchase in most significant business areas. the main purpose of country-by-country reporting is to provide transparency on the financial and tax arrangements of tax havens. despite some shortcomings, the proposal is a clear step towards greater accountability and transparency for large companies. this is necessary not only to ensure taxation in the states where the actual business is carried out, but also to identify the various risks. it is hoped that the lessons learned from this directive, from the reporting of natural resources and from the reporting of banking will be used as soon as possible and that the coverage of public reporting will be extended to all large companies in the future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the greatest threats of our time are not military but are those caused by our own actions, such as climate change, hunger, lack of drinking water, infectious diseases, poverty and inequality. europe is responding to these threats with a defence fund and the development of a defence union, although the official consensus has always been that eu budgetary resources should not be used for defence purposes. i think that the development of cooperation between public authorities, adequate resources, greater cooperation in civil crisis management and development cooperation, and the elimination of inequalities between people would better meet the needs of this era. if europe were to channel the funds earmarked for the defence industry directly to the civilian sectors and if we were to put all our resources into stopping the growing inequalities in europe and the world, and if instead of international armaments we were to start to defuse tensions, to resolve ongoing conflicts and to demand international disarmament once again. i believe that a return to the roots of european peace is a wiser solution for the nations than a continuous build-up of tensions in the spirit of increased armaments.
for the alde group mr president, the basis for the acceptability of the union is that eu funds are allocated correctly. the exercise of the budgetary power is one of the most important and central aspects of the work of members of parliament. citizens do not want the eu to be a machine that runs tax revenues through the tangles of bureaucracy and, at worst, squanders some of the funds. it's not the process that's important, it's the results. the eu funds and the eu budget must add value. the aim must be that every euro spent by the eu brings benefits to the member states - benefits that would otherwise be lost. i am pleased that our report takes account of smes and education. they provide an important base for growth throughout europe. climate change and fighting it is something that together we can be more and alone we can be very little. i would like to say that the european union must be able to fulfil its commitments under the paris agreement. we also need to ensure that we do not act in contradiction. the eu budget should not finance a carbon economy that accelerates climate change. finally, i would like to remind you that the negative consequences of the eu's common foreign policy must also be shared. we have to carry them together. we have rightly imposed sanctions on russia, but the burden of counter-sanctions has been largely borne by our agricultural producers. we must also work together to ensure that the other side of the coin is paid back, that is to say, that we are given support and that we are reimbursed for the burdens we have borne.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their very important work on this very important file. maybe it is only natural that we are here in the middle of the night in the parliament building, speaking about this extremely important affair in the true spirit of prolongation, because, after all, it was the council that prolonged this process for quite a while. but now we can all be happy to have reached the final outcome. this particular directive will form an essential part of the fight against fraud against the eu budget. having common rules designed to protect the financial interests of the union is not only necessary, but it also makes the recovery of misused funds significantly easier and more efficient. even more, the directive is an important step for the effective functioning of the future european public prosecutor’s office, which will soon be established through enhanced cooperation. unfortunately, the council could not agree with all of parliament’s views on the harmonisation of criminal matters affecting the eu budget. but i am glad that, for the most important issues, our hard-working rapporteurs were able to include review clauses in the final text. overall, this directive is a very positive step towards a better functioning union in the fight against fraud. achieving concrete measures for the protection of the eu’s financial interests is the key to ensuring the most reliable and efficient use of european taxpayers’ money. so, once again, my sincere compliments to the rapporteurs on their excellent work.
mr president, the increasingly introverted nature of the united states means that europe has the opportunity and the important role of taking up more space and leadership in the international arena. when the european union is united, we are strong. the paris agreement on climate change is a good example of this, and it would not have been possible without the european union's hard work in international fora. the g20 meeting is now focusing on trade and development policy, which are particularly important topics. i am very pleased that the commission has taken a really active role in trade policy. we know that european trade is now in demand worldwide, and the rules and agreements we make with our international partners guide the whole of world trade. in managing globalisation, it is important that we are active internationally. we are thus seeking to increase entrepreneurship and employment in europe from the perspective of international trade. the japanese negotiations are now in a good shape.
madam president, sorry but i think there were several meps who were not able to vote during the last vote. the machines on a whole row were not working. can we please repeat the vote?
for the alde group mr president, the only sustainable solution to curbing uncontrolled immigration in the long term is to improve living conditions and create jobs in the countries of origin of immigration. this is why the eu is now setting up a sustainable development fund, one of the main objectives of which is to improve living conditions and generate sustainable growth in the eu's neighbourhood, and in particular in the countries of origin and transit of immigration - i.e. to create jobs, livelihoods and hope. the fund is thus intended to support investments in africa and the eu's neighbourhood. the fund does not provide direct financial support but supports private sector investment and provides, inter alia, loan guarantees. once this decision has been taken, it must be implemented swiftly. i am particularly pleased that parliament has been able to set the target for this new regulation of 28% of investment in areas that promote action to combat climate change. these actions are important for the stability of europe and the world, and by preventing climate change from developing, we are tackling the root causes of migration and emigration.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think we have created an innovative development instrument, and a lot depends on the implementation and on the safeguards that have been put in this instrument. we need to make sure that we indeed measure development outcomes already before funding decisions have been made, and we must make sure that we have the best expertise, which should be brought through the other elements of the external investment plan, such as technical assistance and political dialogue. i believe that this is a unique contribution to financing for development commitments. let us make this a real innovative development instrument.
mr president, brexit offers us and the eu a unique opportunity to rationalise the way the eu operates and to move to a single place of work, to stop wasting both time and money. there's a historical case here. i understand very well that when this organisation was set up in the past, strasbourg was chosen as its seat. it has been acceptable then and for good reason. but time has passed, the eu has expanded, and at the moment having two offices is wasteful and unreasonable. so now it's time to move to one location. we cannot be prisoners of history, nor prisoners of france in this matter. in no case should it be possible for one member state to block a decision in its entirety.
in writing. two things have become perfectly clear in the years and decades since parliament has been dividing its activities between brussels and strasbourg on a monthly basis. first, going back and forth is expensive, time-consuming, polluting, and hugely unpopular. both the majority of the citizens and the majority of the european parliament are opposed to it. strasbourg is a very lovely city, but this disparity puts the eu's ability to cooperate and act in question. secondly, it has become clear that the member states do not seem to be able to reach an agreement on the transition to brussels, because france has opposed the transition to brussels. the protocol on the seat of the institutions and of certain bodies, offices and agencies of the european union provides that the european parliament shall have its seat in strasbourg, where it shall hold its twelve monthly plenary sessions. the most sensible option would be to amend the treaties so that the european parliament can decide its own seat. if france does not agree to change the current arrangements, i propose that the strasbourg weeks be reduced to three, then two and finally to one day, while the brussels plenary sessions are extended. the travel blitz to strasbourg would continue 12 times a year, but parliament would sit here for only one day each time. perhaps at that stage the treaty could be opened up, at least by reducing the number of journeys. it makes no sense either, but it's a less foolish arrangement than the one we have now. perhaps this will open the eyes of france as well. i warmly support the idea of a trade-off whereby france would receive the agencies which will soon be vacated by the united kingdom in the event of brexit, if in return it agrees to give up the strasbourg sessions.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, avoiding double taxation is an important objective. it is also justified to resolve disputes relating to it as efficiently as possible. the new directive is a clear step forward in this respect. on the surface, the wording of the amendments adopted by parliament is good and improves on the original commission proposal. the only thing i am concerned about is the shortened time for parliament to deal with the matter. the original thresholds proposed by the commission were in line with the impact assessment of the directive. some of the changes to the timetable made by parliament are much stricter than the time limits considered realistic in this impact assessment. the impact assessment notes how the proliferation and complexity of cross-border value chains and business models can only lead to an increase in processing times. for this reason, i would have been in favour of keeping the deadlines closer to those proposed by the commission. now, there's a danger of decisions being rushed, which would serve no one.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, for me there are two essential conclusions from the singapore judgment. one, referred to by mr lange, chair of the committee on international trade, is that sustainable development, including labour protection, is an essential part of eu trade agreements. this means that we have to take it seriously, that it is not a side issue but rather a very important part of our trade negotiations, which also makes the agreements more legitimate and accepted by people. the second is that we need to balance efficiency with democracy. i am quite pleased when i hear from the commission that it is now thinking about how to involve the national parliaments at an earlier stage, because if we go for more eu-only trade agreements, it means that if the member states, including the national parliaments, are going to have any say, this has to happen very early. so here my strong call to the council is this: please publish the negotiating mandates because that is where the political discussion in the future will happen.
author. – mr president, the international whaling commission (iwc) put in place a worldwide moratorium on commercial whaling in 1986. nevertheless, norway continued whaling and fully resumed commercial whaling activities in 1993, using a formal objection to the moratorium, as well as reservations to cites listings. norway establishes its own catch limits. for this year’s whaling season it increased the quota of north atlantic minke whales to 999, up from 880 last year. norway’s exports of whale meat have increased sharply in recent years. some of these exports are shipped through eu ports. for example, according to animal welfare institutes, in october last year alone almost 3 00 kilos of norwegian whale products were exported to japan, having transited through at least three eu ports. the transit of whale meat through eu ports is permitted provided that shipments are accompanied by valid cites documentation on the council’s regulation. what action has the commission taken so far to persuade norway to halt its whale hunting and adhere to the iwc moratorium? will the commission use its influence at upcoming cites and iwc meetings to urge contracting governments to adopt a common position urging norway to put an immediate stop to all whaling activities? can the commission provide data on the quantities of whale meat shipments transported through eu ports, their destinations and whether they are accompanied by valid cites documentation? what measures is the commission taking to ensure that this documentation obligation is strictly enforced? does the commission agree that, by allowing the transit of whale meat through its ports, the eu is facilitating trade in whale species which are protected by multiple eu laws and whose hunting contravenes the current international ban on commercial whaling? what does the commission believe can be done to prohibit such shipments at both eu and member state level? if no agreement is reached with norway, will the commission recommend a ban on whale meat transit through eu ports as an exceptional measure? i hope that the commission can give very clear answers and also take prompt action because whale hunting – the hunting of endangered species – is inhumane and breaches international legislation. that is something which is not acceptable, so hopefully we can act together to end norway’s unacceptable practices.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you warmly for the good cooperation that has been established in the various committees. i think it is important that we are able to find a global, common solution to the problem of co2 emissions from aviation. why this? however, the negotiations of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) on the details of the corsia global emissions compensation scheme are the ones that have the potential to lead to the best possible outcome for the climate, for humanity and for aviation. i have myself been involved in some of the negotiations on icao and i have seen that the more positive challenges are made from various angles, the better the spirit in which we move forward. all the different pressure movements have tended to create various blocks which prevent the process from proceeding properly. the most important thing is to move forward together in the spirit of corsia. the international compensation system must be made as comprehensive, non-discriminatory, environmentally and climatically efficient as possible, and we should all be smart enough to support this work.
for the alde group mr president, sometimes in politics, a particular issue is the focus of the whole debate and we forget what the whole is about. this has also been the case in the environmental debate. we seem to forget that there is a really big entity at stake, one part of which is emissions trading, the other part is burden sharing, with finland's burden being a moderately large one, 39%, and the third leg of this entity is lulucf. i was pleased to note that commissioner arias cañete stressed that the commission also does not intend to reduce the ability of member states to manage their affairs with a responsible forestry policy. before this, we also discussed how we can reduce the co2 emissions of aircraft in the future. the only way to do that is to use the resources of the forest to our advantage to create fuel that does not pollute our world. we are talking about our forest resources in finland, sweden, germany, poland, spain and france. the english had a forest sometime in the 16th century - sherwood forest - but if my friend paul branning goes to see what the state of sherwood forest is today, he's going to be disappointed. as you should be.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, from the perspective of future generations, we are making big decisions on climate policy. i could only think of my home country, but the risks of climate refugees force me to look beyond that. the disagreement in the motion before us seems to be over time and intensity. the challenge for me is the whole thing and how to manage whether or not to balance the carbon balance of the earth in the short and long term. i do not think that the commission's proposal was intended to prevent the rational use of forest growth. i think what's important is what we do with the forest growth. sustainable forestry for carbon-bound solutions or solutions that increase total emissions? i would have liked to have had a debate on the obligation to deforest, on the increase of total biodiversity both in the eu and in the world, a wider analysis of which fossil fuel economy is being replaced, which produces more emissions and which less. we simply need to be able to create a credible climate programme for europe in cooperation. only then can this planet be viable for children and grandchildren.
blue-card question. – you also mentioned a scientific basis for the lulucf with which i very much agree: we have to look at the whole forest in the world and in europe. so how can you say that this proposal, which would give for some countries the reference of their yearly increment to remain at 85% and for some countries it is around 40%? what is the scientific reason for that? i do not see there any basis on which we can make this difference between the member states.
mr president, the forestry laws of the eu and the different member states ensure that europe's forests are managed sustainably, with respect for the very important biodiversity. this is why european timber has been growing for a long time and will continue to do so in the future, cooling the climate. europe can combine the growth of forest resources with increased wood use. we can replace many climate-damaging fossil products, such as concrete, oil and fuels, with renewable wood products. the future of the european bioeconomy will be decided in the forthcoming lulucf vote. the commission and the environment committee's proposals on carbon leaching from forests would encourage a freeze on the use of wood at the level of the past, which is not sensible. such a calculation would, for example, make the carbon content of finland an emission in the climate calculations. we would have to import wood from outside europe, where the forest is not necessarily managed sustainably. we in parliament must be able to look ahead and see the potential of increased manpower. amendment no 65 by the ppe group makes this possible by ensuring that forest resources continue to grow in the future. it also encourages member states to use timber sustainably and to manage their forests.
mr president, we must tackle three challenges at the same time: curbing climate emissions, reforming the economy and industry and replacing fossil raw materials with renewable biomass, including sustainable forestry. the whole thing leads to better climate change mitigation. i was a lulucf shadow rapporteur on the itre committee. we added carbon sinks to our own category of wood products. these store carbon and can continue to replace fossil materials. the committee on external economic relations has noted this, and i thank you for that. on the key issue of the reference period for forestry, the itre committee wanted to take account of all the available information, including the most recent. unfortunately, the presentation on the table is limited to the old period of annual forest use and arbitrary differences between eu countries. at european level, forests must be swallowed up. this is an unacceptable proposal between eu countries. the amendment tabled by the rapporteur would make it possible to correct this. i would ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the envi report, but also of the amendment. looking at europe and the creation of carbon pools, but not on the basis of inequality between member states.
mr president, from a climate standpoint, a decline in carbon dioxide is the same as a decline in emissions. the best and easiest way to capture carbon dioxide from the atmosphere is to grow carbon sinks, or forests. the new compromise position of the european people's party is unclear. i read it myself, that all forest growth would be chopped down, and the carbon footprint of the forest would be allowed to decline until 2049. we don't have time for this. the implementation of the paris agreement on climate change is urgent and land and forest management have a key role to play. you can't solve climate change by hiding emissions. the accounts shall be transparent and honest. the report by the committee on the environment does not limit the number of trees. but the report points in the right direction with regard to economic incentives, i.e. the increase of carbon stocks and more sustainable use of wood. it is not sustainable to seek further logging to increase the surplus of forest-based bioenergy. a sensible circular economy is to get more from less and sustainable, long-lasting wooden buildings, new innovations, replacing plastic with wood.
mr president, forests play an important role in combating climate change, and this is particularly well known in my home country of finland, which is by far the most forested country in europe. more than 75 percent of finland's land area is forested. forests also play a very important role in our national economy, and that means that it is in the interest of all of us to take care of them in a sustainable way. in finland, forests have always grown more than they have been cut down, and this will continue to be the case. this commission proposal has caused a great deal of concern and even anger in forestry countries, because the proposal for a calculation mechanism and in particular for reference years places member states in a very unequal position with each other and even punishes those member states which have taken care of their own forests in a sustainable way. it should also be possible to increase forest use in areas where it can be done in a sustainable manner and in a way that maintains the forest as a carbon sink. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr linz, for his excellent work in seeking a good compromise, and i suggest that everyone should give their full support to the rapporteur's amendment, which also allows for the development of sustainable forestry.
mr president, sustainable forest management and responsible forest management are the best climate policies. it also enables responsible forest management. that's why the forest countries also tend their forests. against this background, the commissioner's speech seemed rather strange, as he only spoke of administrative problems. it's nice to have balance and a little flexibility. however, the commission's original proposal was very unequal for the different member states. it specifically punished those member states which have managed their forests and have been able to use them responsibly. forestry policy is not an administrative problem, but a responsible management of forests in such a way that they can be used, but also enjoyed and fulfilled in nature, in accordance with the conditions of climate policy.
mr president, i have only a minute, and that is perhaps best spent with a little emotional speech. i'm sure this is all for the right reasons. we all in this room want to stop climate change. but i cannot understand how some people in this house, particularly in the environment committee, can turn a blind eye to the facts. if the environment committee's wishes are granted, the member states with the most forests in europe, which are particularly concerned with their carbon stocks and the prevention of climate change, will be punished. i strongly believe that there is enough sense in this house to vote for the rapporteur, mr norbert lins, whose work i really thank, on the ppe amendment, and then we will have some understanding of this.
mr president, high-speed telecommunications are one of the most important investment areas in europe. we have set ourselves the target of having all europeans with comprehensive broadband and half of them with ultra-fast connectivity by 2020. at present, we know that only 70% of eu citizens have access to high-speed internet, and that this figure is much lower in rural areas. to achieve these common objectives, we will need to invest an estimated eur 500 billion over the next few years, specifically in high-speed connections throughout europe. it is an important prerequisite for us to be able to create a digital economy and digital services in europe. the wi-fi initiative now being presented is an important part of this. the aim is to bring wi-fi networks to rural areas, public places, and to residents. it is welcome and important. at the same time, however, we must remember that we need above all private investment to accelerate europe's development towards a digital union, and it is important that we create a market-based environment that encourages businesses to invest in connectivity. a good example of this is my own country, finland, which has invested very heavily in mobile technology, and finns use mobile data ten times more than the european average, because we have very good mobile connections and because of competition, prices are low. it is therefore also important to remember that we must have a technology-neutral approach. the way in which the various member states are already organising internet connections, high-speed connections, can be very different, and it is also necessary to ensure that they work well together.
the report now before us is an important part of the changing and increasingly integrated energy policy of the eu. i would like to thank my committee for a good report which promotes cooperation between countries to ensure the security of gas supply. the report also contains excellent ways of improving energy security. for example, my own country, finland, depends on one pipeline from russia, but is in a better position than central europe because it uses very little gas to heat individual houses. the use of district heating can be used in a wide variety of energy sources and its expansion elsewhere in europe would reduce the risk of a single fuel. the same is true for decentralized renewable production. the report lists as preventive measures, in addition to interconnections between countries, energy efficiency, virtual gas reserves, storage and liquefied natural gas terminals. safety must be seen as part of other energy issues under discussion. the energy efficiency directive for buildings, which the rapporteur and i are revising, is intended to speed up energy efficiency renovations. in addition to reducing demand, we hope to be able to offer european households the possibility of switching off to one fuel only. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – i think that every time we can agree on something politically it will be an improvement for all sectors of society. but we know that in relations with russia it is not only energy we are looking at; unfortunately, the country is using multi-targeted politics towards the european union. we have to remain coherent, but not to forget that energy is one of a vital part. talking about climate change, talking about coal in the arctic, on the ice, we need russia on board to prevent really fast, rapid climate change that the black coal is causing in the arctic, and that is why we need to find a broad political understanding. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am very happy to work in this parliament in the itre committee, because we clearly understand that the european union working together can improve the energy supply and energy security. it does not limit us taking national decisions in member states on whether you want to use nuclear or not, or whether you want to use more renewables than the quotas set by the union. the energy mix is decided in every member state. the european union can only improve the security of energy, and there we have a concrete result now on the table, with many more to come.
in writing. the german federal elections are expected to be very exciting, although the direction is clear. the german-french intergovernmental working group has been sitting for months behind closed doors, sketching out a new direction for europe. the development of the federal states continues, the solidarity of the member states is to be increased, the european stability mechanism will become the eu monetary fund and we will soon have a common minister of finance. there has been no open political debate in finland on this issue, although there was no discussion about joining the euro, which is a problem for us. president macron's speech on september 8, 2017 in athens is a harbinger of a mighty federal plan. the commission has proposed three different funds: one to safeguard investment in a recession, another to help member states with unemployment costs and a third to be set up in case of bad times. the proposals for the three funds are not clear and not sufficiently substantiated to make their principles of operation easily understandable. it is equally difficult to see what the rationale is for a common finance minister or for the euro area's own budget. the federal government is perhaps the most significant factor behind this. europe is made up of sovereign nation states, each of which is linguistically and culturally unique. the development is worrying for finland, because we are the ones who are going to pay. in view of the low level of commitment of the eu countries and the commission to combating tax evasion, i would hope that all the energy that is being put into setting up new agencies, offices and funds would be channelled into the fight against tax evasion.
mr president, open questions: who approves cars on european roads, what kind of market surveillance is carried out on cars? there are viable emission reduction techniques. they just haven't had to be used when there hasn't been proper approval or oversight. the debate has moved on to a ban on diesel cars. it is not possible to change one industry into another in an instant without serious employment effects. what about consumers who have bought a diesel car thinking that they can use it for years to come? and how do we relate the principles of a circular economy to this? the future is electrification, but what is the european approach to battery cells? that is a big question. the debate must also include the reduction of mobility and transport needs, i.e. a genuine zero-emission approach. unfortunately, the transport sector was still not represented in president juncker's speech outside the port of departure. i would hope that we would finally get out of that port together, at least into the water, so that transport policy can really improve air quality and reduce emissions.
the rapporteur. mr president, the european economy is extremely dependent on traditional bank financing. this problem is particularly acute in the case of the financing needs of smes, which remain the main bottlenecks and stumbling blocks. this naturally applies in particular to the financing of new, innovative and therefore risky ideas, projects and enterprises, whether they are small start-ups or larger projects. we urgently need more business angels and venture capital, this venture capital financing, to operate throughout the single market. the eu venture capital market continues to expand, far behind our nearest comparison, the us. the eu market is about five times smaller than the transatlantic market and is furthermore fragmented into national markets, which also limits the growth of funds operating here and their ability to focus their own expertise on areas such as technology, environmental or medicine. to learn about well-functioning venture capital markets, it would also be worthwhile to look to asia or israel. the problem becomes particularly acute when the fund has reached its objective, that is, found an idea and a company that works. a startup in a strong growth phase would need rapidly growing additional funding and expertise. then our relatively small funds may not be able to provide the company with the expertise, support or funding. when follow-up funding is not available in europe, the idea either dies down or alternatives have to be sought elsewhere outside europe. this problem is of course neither new nor unknown, and that is why the eu already adopted in 2013 a regulation on a common european venture capital passport, the euveca passport, which creates common rules for venture capital markets and fundraising across europe. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the list of eligible costs for the european social fund. now, as part of the capital markets union, on the commission's proposal, we are trying to remedy this problem. the aim is to ensure that each national authority does not unreasonably charge the fund for national registration or control fees or create technical barriers to market entry. the current practice is totally contrary to the idea of a european passport and to the capital markets. the central part of the proposal is the total ban on overpayments and obligations. in addition, the possibility of managing euveca and eusef funds is also opened up to often larger funds, which increases the possibility for the funds to provide more follow-up funding. the possibility of investing in smes will also be improved. this commission proposal is accompanied by a broader package which as a whole aims to increase venture capital funding in the union. there is the eu budget support, the fund of funds, to which capital can be attracted, leveraged from large community investors. the problem still remains with the national tax treatment, which is outside the eu's competence. small steps were taken to ensure that these fine principles would also be implemented through a common european control system which guarantees that all member states treat european funds equally and in the same way.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission for very good and constructive cooperation which we have had throughout the process. i hope that you convey the message further, but i would like you to convey two other messages as well. one is that there are still some steps in the european venture capital fund and regarding initial capital and the possibility to invest and other flexibilities that should be looked at a bit later on (at the time of the review). what is most important, now when the commission is going to have this review: i do hope that you take the necessary steps to ensure transparent and pan-european treatment for the european venture capital funds under the auspices of the european securities and markets authority and improve their role and strength, because i find this to be on the crux of creating an effective european capital market and the european venture capital fund market. it’s an uphill struggle but i find that this was one of the things that was still a bit lacking in this process and hopefully you could push it forward when you are taking the next steps.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to make four or five points here. the first is, of course, for ulrike rodust. it is a pleasure to work with a rapporteur who has ‘ordnung’. ‘ordnung muss sein’, as the germans say. that was a very good start and it guarantees a good result. the second point is recreational fisheries. that is going to be a bigger and bigger problem in all fisheries and it is coming up also in technical measures. if we do not do something, then it will grow and grow, and overgrow our possibilities. the third issue is the fmsy. there is pressure to accept fmsy upper. i do not think that is an acceptable way of handling this issue. the common fisheries policy (cfp) was clear on this issue and therefore, i hope for support for my amendment on fmsy as a limit. the fourth problem comes up also in very many files. we are for regionalisation, but we need a backstop. if the regions do not understand how to make their decisions, then we will run into a very problematic situation. this is coming up in several files and therefore, even if you do not like the commission to step in, we think it is necessary to have a backstop for the future. the fifth thing concerns the question of order. when this debate started after lunch, my speaking time was at around 19.30; we have lost one and a half hours because of bad handling of the discussion. this thing here is called a wristwatch and i recommend that the presidency has one so that they can count the seconds and the minutes in the future.
mr president, the legal basis for this proposal is incorrect. we should not turn a blind eye when a common foreign and security policy instrument is masked to look like development policy. the legal services of all institutions, also in this parliament, were very reluctant to approve the proposed legal basis, and in the committee on legal affairs in july, the legal basis of this proposal was pushed through by minority votes, while the majority of the committee was voting against or abstaining. there can hardly be development without security, but that should not mean that legal bases are interchangeable. article 209 on development cooperation and development cooperation instrument funds cannot be used to finance military capacity-building abroad. we have to make clear that, also internally, we respect the rule of law in the european union institutions. many of us may think that the european union, and especially the european parliament, should have more of a say in the common foreign and security policy matters, but it does not mean that we should sacrifice the development policy principles and bend legal rules. that should not be done. this regulation would create the precedent that development aid and non-common foreign and security policy instruments and funds are used for military purposes and development funds are used for capacity-building for the armed forces. these activities go far beyond development policy. therefore, i ask you to vote against starting the negotiations. (applause)
in writing. only half of us women in the eu are in fulltime employment. the continent that should be setting an example to the rest of the world is leaving half of its women out of the workforce. it's not getting any better. women are born poorer, live poorer and die poorer than men. women are underrepresented in the labour market throughout the eu. the overall employment rate for women is still almost 12% lower than for men. 32% of women in employment work part-time, compared with only 8% of men. are we fooling the women of europe? we argue that education is the way to better wages. despite the fact that women's educational attainment levels are now on average higher than men's in the eu, the gender pay gap still stands at 16%. so women do not rise to the same level as men, even though they are better educated. we also argue that by working hard, you can earn a lot of money. that's another scam. women work more than men. the difference is that men are paid for the greater part of the work they do. women in the eu do at least two and a half times as much unpaid domestic and care work as men. it's a real job, but women don't get paid for it. when homework and work at the office are added together, women's working hours are longer. a big reason for the present situation is that women care for children and the elderly at home significantly more than men. this must be remedied by attitudinal education, but also by legislation at both european and member state level. the proposals in this report should be taken very seriously.
in writing. the promotion of partnerships with the member countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean) is a strategic interest for the eu. the asean countries together form the seventh largest economy in the world and asean is the eu's third largest trading partner. the value of bilateral trade in goods is more than eur 200 billion a year. the region is also one of the most dynamic and fastest growing in the world in terms of technology and research. dialogue and cooperation are of common interest in many areas, from cybersecurity to combating climate change. the strategic partnership must not, of course, be pursued without turning a blind eye to human rights violations in the region, for example. the partnerships should also promote the un recommendations on business and human rights. the eu has the potential to use its relations to influence the implementation of human rights in the region, both through its trade partnerships and through development aid.
in writing. the brexit negotiations have progressed with conflicting messages and many issues remain open. the fact is that the united kingdom can leave the union without a formal withdrawal agreement, as a mere notification is sufficient under article 50 of the treaty on european union (tfeu). it is therefore in the interests of all eu countries and citizens that a withdrawal agreement should be concluded. the british prime minister, mrs may, has said that it is better to leave without a deal than with a bad one. the eu should seek to avoid a no-deal situation, which would make it more difficult for foreign trade and the situation of its citizens, among other things. it is clear that the uk requires a comprehensive free trade agreement in addition to the withdrawal agreement. it would be better to move the negotiations forward quickly and ensure that a free trade agreement can be concluded that benefits all parties. this will allow for a withdrawal agreement under which the uk will be able to meet its financial obligations for a longer period. if the costs were to be increased by the uk's failure to meet its obligations after march 2019, the consequences for taxpayers in all remaining eu countries would be disproportionate. it is essential to ensure that after brexit the eu budget also decreases in the same proportion as the british contribution has been. there must be no additional costs for eu net payers like finland.
mr president, i am wholeheartedly in favour of ending child marriage. in europe, child marriage can no longer be ignored on the grounds of multicultural values. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the citizens of europe are respected. preventing child marriage is not just humanitarian. it is an effective way of promoting the long-term development of developing countries and of sustainably curbing the flow of refugees. girls' education is one of the few factors that studies have found to be an effective investment across generations in the fight against poverty. child marriage, low education and rapid population growth are all linked. this is an opportunity for the eu to show great leadership and one that should not be missed.
mr president, dear colleagues, passengers’ and workers’ rights need to be respected. this is unfortunately not the case for ryanair. this kind of unfair business model and ultra-low cost model in the transport sector in general needs to be avoided. if we look at the current situation for customers, no real safeguards exist against flight cancellations or delays. how do passengers really feel when they book a ryanair flight, but they don’t know whether it will ever take off, and then the company blames poor planning of staff holidays. it is not only the customers who are affected, it is also the crew members, who work on an hourly rate and don’t get paid when flights get cancelled. what are the workers’ social conditions if they are only being paid for the hours when they are flying, with no income security when flights are cancelled? is this the model of aviation we want in europe or elsewhere – a new model of legal slavery? we need to fix the grey areas of the current air passenger rights regulation. we know very well the regulation is open to interpretation, and parliament is ready and willing to get an agreement on this important subject. we need a clear and fair air passenger rights regulation, and the citizens of europe are waiting for european union leadership in this matter and for fair conditions and fair aviation that is safe for customers and workers alike.
mr president, hormonal disruptors in small doses often last for generations and come from a number of sources. we all know that this is an underestimated, irreversible and long-term risk. it is therefore regrettable to see the commission's hesitation in this matter, both in the preparation of the criteria, which by law had to be accelerated, and in the formulation of the content. that is why it is also unfortunate that the commission now refers to parliament in terms of urgency, when the whole preparation process has been very problematic in the first place. secondly, the commission has indeed exceeded its powers, in the view of parliament's legal assessment. it has made a political compromise. commissioner, i understand how difficult it is to make political compromises, but with the health of the people and the legal situation, it was not possible in this case. sometimes it is better not to make bad legislation that is long-lasting than not to make it. that is the reason for the rejection of parliament's position, which i think is reasonable.
mr president, this parliament benefits highly from the expertise of the court of auditors. the annual report gives us a great amount of useful information and plays a crucial role in the discharge procedure. it acts as a basis for a thorough analysis of the implementation of the eu budget, so congratulations on this important work. this year we can once again be mostly satisfied with the court’s report itself and the conclusions it incorporates. however, despite improvements in the error rates, there are still some weaknesses. i have to emphasise in particular the issues of compliance and performance. indeed, the issue of the error rate as such can be seen as of relative importance. unfortunately – a confusing case of non-compliance regarding the eligibility period of disbursements within financial instruments – the estimated level of error for cohesion expenditure does not necessarily represent the true state of its implementation. it has to be made clear, this is not the court’s fault. the court is not at fault here. it did what it was bound to do within the legal interpretation. but the point beyond that is this: the european citizen has to have direct access to clearly understandable numbers, and there we still have some work to do. we do appreciate that the court has begun to put more emphasis on performance audit and this is the right path. in the coming years we still need more data on actual results and added value, also in and by member states.
mr president, thank you, mr president, and mr commissioner, thank you, mr president of the court of auditors, mr lehne, for presenting the annual report. we are pleased to say that we have finally reached below the margin of error. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report is a good one, and it gives us reason to believe that we can expect even better results if and when we continue to follow the same careful course in the management of the european union's finances. however, the annual report raises concerns which we should pay more attention to in the future. they are also certainly under preparation at the court of auditors. one important factor is the record payment appropriations in this year's budget, which also means an increase in the number of checks. we must continue to guarantee the principle that eu citizens have the right to know how their money is spent. they must also be able to rely on the proper control of these funds. in this context, the appropriateness of the financing is also emphasized, and i would like to see more and more efforts made to ensure that taxpayers' money is not only used technically correctly, but also that the objectives of the financing are met in practice.
mr president, we are shocked by the murder of a courageous maltese journalist a week ago. he exposed abuses, corruption, and crime. this case is an extreme example of how whistleblowers can go about their business, the risks they take and why they need to be protected. the report contains a lot of good stuff, like anonymous whistleblowing channels and financial support for whistleblowers. it goes without saying that the conditions for the operation of small, medium and large enterprises must be equal in the internal market, whether it be in the field of taxation, public procurement or environmental standards. we need clear legislation to protect those who expose the abuses and crimes of these companies and associations.
in writing. although the unemployment rate in the european union is now at its lowest level since 2008, the prolonged economic crisis is still reflected in the lives and future prospects of too many young people. the best response to youth unemployment is skills and education. education is the most effective way of preventing unemployment. in all the member states of the european union, there is a need to continue to improve both the quality of primary education and the availability of further education. it is about growth for europe as a whole and about future competitiveness. we have common challenges to address, such as an ageing workforce, skills shortages, technological developments and global competition. increased international competition and the advance of digitalisation and robotisation mean major changes in working life. training must provide each young person with adequate basic skills and competences, but it is equally important to enable updating of skills during the working life. it is important that no young person is left behind, but quickly gets into learning or work. in order to achieve the objectives of the youth guarantee and reduce youth unemployment, many countries still need to reform rigid education systems and labour markets. efficiency is needed in the member state's youth guarantee operations and their monitoring. investing in young people and education is the key to a better future for europe.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mureşan, for his good and effective cooperation. i think we have reached a balanced position. we are investing in sustainable growth, tackling youth unemployment and in the ability of smes to create new jobs. all these are very important conditions for future growth in europe. i am pleased that we are in favour of the call for increased eu climate finance. we cannot fall behind on the goals we have set for ourselves and on our international commitments. the commission must make realistic proposals to achieve the objectives. i would remind you that we, as the budgetary authority, are very much on guard. the eu's acceptability in the eyes of its citizens is often measured by how it spends its money, how efficiently, fairly, transparently and effectively it spends it. the view in this parliament has long been that the eu budget can be increased continuously. we are proposing some amendments, but we have not been very good at finding ways of saving, that is what we have to say. in many member states, however, the reality is different. the increase in the eu budget is viewed with great reservations. it is obvious that savings must be made after or when britain leaves. i hope that, with a view to the next annual budgets and especially the next financial framework, we will also come together to consider areas where we can save or use existing funds more efficiently. the union's priorities are changing and new priorities need to be financed. but this cannot mean that the priorities are simply increasing. the same savings must be found to finance the new priorities.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, to my great regret we are again forced to refuse regarding the granting of discharge to the european council and the council because of the lack of information and communication. this ongoing disagreement about the legal competence to provide the discharge is an unfortunate situation which remains unsolved. i am pleased to note that there has actually been some discussion between parliament and the council on the matter, but i still find it an insufficient basis for granting discharge. when it comes to discharge procedures regarding the commission and other european institutions, we have a certain set of rules that must be followed and there shall be no exceptions or privilege for any institutions. transparent governance when using european taxpayers’ money is a fundamental right and the current unsolved situation severely undermines this right. we should be able to guarantee that all of the european union institutions use eu citizens’ money transparently. as for parliament, it is currently unable to scrutinise how the council budget is spent. the situation allows unfortunate grounds for questions on the use of the budget. discharge is not a voluntary procedure but an official procedure to make sure that the eu budget is used in the way it is meant to be used. i hope that the dialogue between parliament and the council will continue and that this issue can be solved in a way such that in the future there is a possibility to grant discharge to all european institutions.
mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity. sorry for being late. dear council, here we are again. i regret to have to give the same speech pretty much year after year. i will try to be a little bit more civilised this year than i have been on some occasions. but the truth is that we have been refusing to grant the discharge to the council for seven years in a row now, and whatever the reasons and the logic behind this, the fact of the matter remains that the taxpayers in the european union deserve to have a transparent and open system. and they really deserve to have an end put to this farce of democracy, i have to say. so i would like to join the words of madam grässle, auf deutsch, bitte, in english, please, in finnish, olkaa niin hyviä ja katsokaa tätä asiaa kansalaisten näkökulmasta.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, there are no internal border checks in the schengen area. therefore, the external border is a common concern for all member states. we must have an effective way to monitor who comes in and who goes out if we want to prevent illegal immigration, cross-border crime and terrorism. at the same time, the number of legitimate travellers into the european union keeps growing. with the tools that we have now, more security means longer queues and more waiting for the bona fide traveller. the entry/exit system (ees) is one answer to this challenge. the ees is not a political project. it does not change the rules that concern entry, immigration, asylum or repatriation. this must be made clear. it is a technological update, something that brings our border management into the 21st century. it is a tool that helps us to enforce the rules that we already have. the ees should have been in place before, and as a precondition to, the abolition of internal border checks. there has been much political opposition to the ees over the years, very often based on misconceptions. i truly hope that those who want schengen to survive in the long term, who want a safe europe and smooth travel flows, support the outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations. for the ecr, it was particularly important that law—enforcement authorities have reasonable access to the data stored in the ees and that data retention periods are sufficient for the system to benefit legitimate travellers on the one hand, and to make life harder for those who do not respect the rules on the other. we regret that the registered traveller programme was not included in this proposal. finally, i want to thank the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, for his great professionalism, patience, determination and constructive approach.
mr president, there will be smuggling in the mediterranean for as long as illegal crossing is rewarded. the demographic and socioeconomic trends in africa and the middle east guarantee that people will keep coming indefinitely and in large numbers. we have the tools to manage the influx: the problem is that we do not have a political decision on what we want to achieve. europe cannot afford this kind of immigration, socially or economically. we have failed in integrating the immigrants that we already have, and that failure will become catastrophic as the numbers grow. so, we must stop the flow. migrants who are rescued at sea must be returned to the port of departure, and not brought to european ports. this will also stop smuggling, because nobody wants to pay for nothing, and it will stop the tragedies at sea.
mr president, despite the recovery in the euro area, economic policy has been ineffective in reducing unemployment rapidly. the basic problem of the single currency is not even mentioned in the report, nor are exchange rates at all, although they have had a key impact on the recovery of the euro area. the various structural reforms proposed and implemented have not compensated or will compensate for the absence of exchange rate policy in the member states, which prevents rapid adjustments in competitiveness between the different countries. in practice, increasing economic flexibility often involves a reduction in wages, which is a slow, painful and risky way of restoring lost competitiveness, and not necessarily even possible. unfortunately, this is completely ignored in the report. i think that the report should cover all the key economic policy issues.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, australia and new zealand are two separate countries, as we all know, but we are in the process of concluding our own agreement with each of them. but these two countries are on a par with the european union in terms of values. it can be said that when we share the same values, it is natural to also deepen our trade relations with them. we also have today the opinion of the court of justice on the limits within which we must operate in trade agreements, so that we can guarantee the swift ratification and application of the agreement. i am generally pleased with this report, but i would like to highlight two points where i believe we can still work a little bit to improve the text and make it more balanced. i would like to remove the reference to the removal of sensitive agricultural sectors from the mandate. it is clear to me that the commission can and will, if necessary, exclude agricultural sectors from the negotiations, but the starting point of leaving some sectors outside the mandate is not a pragmatic approach and i would therefore like to remove this entry. in addition, as regards the possible sanctions under the sustainable development clauses, i personally would also consider that a pragmatic approach is the right approach. first we have to find out how this is technically possible and then we have to put it into practice. however, these records are already subject to dispute settlement. i hope therefore for a good and balanced agreement and i trust the commissioner and his team to be able to do this in order to get a free trade agreement that benefits both sides. as i said, it is also very important to remember when making trade agreements that it is fundamentally a question of value and value-based agreements and when we work with new zealand and australia on this, we share the same value base. it's a good place to start.
mr president, tourism is one of the sectors which has changed very rapidly thanks to the internet, and an increasing proportion of airline tickets, for example, are now booked directly via the internet. for consumers, this has meant a significant improvement on previous times. it is precisely these many new services that have emerged, where you can compare airline ticket prices, that have benefited both consumers and, of course, airlines, because consumers have been able to compare, among other things, prices, speeds and different route options, and also airlines have been able to fill their seats more efficiently and perhaps find customers who otherwise would not have chosen that company. it is clear that digital services of this kind cannot be run unless all parties in the chain are fairly remunerated for their part in the chain. it is therefore important that the european parliament and the european union ensure that we have a fair competitive environment and sufficient transparency and openness and that a dominant position is not used, for example, by imposing unfair contractual terms. in this new situation it is very important that the commission now carefully examine the practices that have arisen. we know that on the one hand the distribution of air tickets has been dominated by a few large gds distribution companies and now the airlines have also developed their own systems and open standards which allow other companies and distribution channels to be more effectively involved. the whole industry is now undergoing a major transformation as a result of digitalisation and it is important that we ensure a level playing field.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the principle of the rule of law, as recalled in article 2 of the treaty of the european union, is the foundation of the union. the principle of legality, as a corollary to the rule of law, requires that activities of the union’s administration are carried out in full accordance with the law. with the development of the competencies of the european union, citizens are increasingly confronted with the union’s institutions and procedures in their daily lives. despite this increase, the procedures remain opaque, rules unclear and the people do not know what their rights are or if there is a remedy. in other words, alongside the expansion of administrative procedures, the eu has failed to ensure that the procedural rights that are affected will be adequately protected. yet, in a union under the rule of law, it is necessary that procedural rights and obligations be clearly defined and complied with. it remains the case that the union lacks a coherent and comprehensive set of codified rules of administrative law. not only does this enable poor, non-transparent and inconsistent administration, it makes it difficult for citizens to understand their administrative rights under union law. the right to good administration requires that administrative acts should be taken by the union’s administration pursuant to clear and accessible administrative procedures which guarantee impartiality, fairness and timeliness. in its resolution of 15 january 2013, the european parliament called for the adoption of a regulation on a european law of administrative procedure, to legally guarantee the right to good administration, by means of an open, efficient and independent european administration. however, despite the fact that the motion for a resolution was adopted in plenary by an overwhelming majority, parliament’s request has not been followed up by a commission proposal. last year, i asked my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs to draft the regulation together with me if the commission would not do it, and we did it. the text was endorsed by the committee in june last year and the european parliament in its plenary adopted it. it called for the commission to come forward with a comprehensive legislative proposal. mr president, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon would give us the full obligation to implement the right to good administration and i am extremely disappointed to hear once again from the commission, as we heard, that the commission still remains to be convinced about the need for a unified law on administrative procedure.
for the alde group mr president, the idea behind the environmental liability directive is simple: the polluter pays. the damage caused by the damage and the restoration of the environment must be borne by the person who caused the damage. unfortunately, the implementation of environmental responsibility varies greatly between member states. the polluter doesn't always pay. the lack of implementation undermines the well-being of the areas affected by environmental damage, and also the well-being of the people. it is not unusual that it is in the outermost regions and the economically weakest regions that environmental damage can also be poorly managed. in the worst case, repairs can be delayed for a long time and in the worst case, the damage and repairs are forgotten. if the culprit is not held accountable or if the state is not obliged by its own legislation to finance remedial measures from its own coffers, the people, the soil, the water bodies, the animal species and the environment of the entire contaminated area pay the biggest price. the report we are voting on today calls for a clarification of the interpretation of the definition of environmental responsibility. the specific weakness of the directive is its loose definition of significant environmental damage. the commission must intervene as soon as possible. we also demand that the commission re-examine the directive and impose requirements for environmental damage insurance and a financial guarantee for the risky operator. finally, the commission must seriously consider whether to include confidential measures that undermine air quality, such as the recent particulate matter scandal, in the scope of this directive, which is the most important issue affecting the environment and human health. it is time to act on this matter, and the commission has not received any very clean papers either.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the environmental liability directive is a ground—breaking one and it is a vitally important tool to defend european nature and its citizens and future generations. however, it is a missed opportunity. the directive is under—used because it is toothless and its scope is too narrow and it contains loopholes. also, the directive is too limited in its strict liability regime as it can only be applied to a set type of environmental damage as listed in its annex. that annex (annex 3) covers water, land and biodiversity damages only. in particular, it covers them only in the context of certain activities that are included on a restricted list. furthermore, it is simply irrational that the directive does not cover rapidly—evolving pollutants, damage to air, fauna and flora and landscape, human health and air quality. it is my inescapable conclusion that for this directive to become genuinely operational and effective, we need to revise and enlarge its scope. we should consider the option of requiring subsidiary state liability to be made mandatory. i have heard no justifications that would convince me that establishing clear parameters for accountability in this regard would not and could not be warranted. responsibility and liability cannot be outsourced, especially because damage to the environment and human health affects citizens and society at large, and not just the individuals concerned. in this vein, i strongly support the proposal by the rapporteur to consider introducing legislation to assist operators and insurance companies to make use of insurance schemes in cases of environmental damage – also by way of examining the option of making financial security mandatory for operators affected by this directive. i am sympathetic to the hesitation in imposing such an obligation on operators, but not having a requirement of mandatory security in this regard is simply too dangerous.
mr president, i am sure that there is a rule in the rules of procedure that says that the plenary cannot be used for further political discussion that was already dealt with extensively in committee, and this is a clear case of that. (applause)
mr president, recent reports of persecution of christians in various parts of the world reveal serious violations of human rights. the european union and the various actors must take very seriously the fact that in syria and iraq, for example, the situation of christians is difficult, with up to 50-80% of christians having to leave their own country. it is not that they brought some new religion, but that christians have been living in those areas for over 2,000 years - over 500 years before the rise of islam. we should urgently find adequate means to prevent the destruction of the property and the trampling on the constitutional rights of the christians of syria and iraq. the persecution of christians is leading to the loss of a strong middle eastern cultural tradition, and it is also a loss for all of us. the constitution of both countries - syria and iraq - guarantees the same rights to followers of all religions. but this is not the case. christians have also been instrumental in building these societies and have acted as a balancing force in conflicts. so there should be no basis for the persecution. in china, too, north korean christians have been the target of persecution. some of them have fled north korea for their faith, but some have embraced christianity in china. christians who are returned to north korea are put in forced labor camps, and those camps are usually not survivable. it is estimated that some 50,000 to 70,000 christians are imprisoned in these camps. china should seek to protect and provide security for north korean christians who have fled there and allow them full freedom to practice their religion. the strong influence of hindu nationalists in india's domestic politics has also led to a general turn against other religions. christians in particular have been in the line of fire there. we cannot accept such actions in a democratic country like india. i would also mention south sudan, where church workers have been imprisoned and churches destroyed. we should also take action here, because we must remember that freedom of religion is a fundamental human right, the realization of which we must vigorously demand as europeans on the basis of our own values.
mr president, in the work of the pana committee of inquiry we have often pointed out that mossack fonseca is ultimately just one player in the market for tax haven companies, not even the largest. the paradise papers and the leaked appleby law firm data are a great reminder of this. at the same time, the leaked data underlines the importance of continuing the work begun at pana to close the loopholes. the difficulties encountered in obtaining information in pana further underline the fact that the matter cannot be left to the commission, the council and the member states alone. it is now crucial to further promote open ownership registers, the flagging of automatic exchange of tax information gaps and transparent country-specific tax reporting. and when you're unwrapping your paradise papers, you're bound to find new piggy holes waiting to be filled.
in writing. daphne caruana galizia, a journalist and blogger who investigated corruption in malta, was assassinated in a car bomb attack on 16 october 2017. the murder sparked protests in malta. the 2016 country report on monitoring media pluralism identified the high risks to market pluralism and political independence of the maltese media. these were reinforced by a number of factors, including the lack of protection and self-regulation of journalists and editorial autonomy, political ownership of the media, and a lack of media literacy. the 2017 index on media freedom published by reporters without borders found that freedom of expression in malta is restricted in particular by defamation laws, which can lead to fines or imprisonment and are generally used against journalists, especially by politicians. the politicians representing the entire political spectrum of malta had brought several charges of defamation against daphne caruana galizia. his bank accounts were also frozen earlier this year by a court order following a libel case brought by a government minister that had not yet been resolved in court. the maltese media reported that the bank had been under intense pressure from pilatus bank, which is the target of money laundering allegations. pilatus bank's clients have been predominantly politically influential azerbaijanis, for whom the bank has not exercised the due diligence required by the aml directive. malta has been found to sell its citizenship for €650,000 to third country nationals, such as russians, who are also granted eu citizenship with its associated rights. the situation in malta is very worrying and i therefore strongly support the european parliament's resolution of 15 november 2017 on the implementation of the rule of law in malta.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, multilateral trade is currently going through a difficult period, with a few members of the wto who are not strongly committed to a common agenda. but we need multilateral rules for global trade, and it is not enough for a few countries to commit themselves to joint decisions. achieving sustainable solutions requires that everyone plays by the same agreed rules. in buenos aires we must also have a strong debate on the substance of the matter. it is essential that the eu plays an active role in the next ministerial conference in order to guarantee constructive results. agriculture and e-commerce are topics on which we have a lot to discuss. in these sectors in particular, common rules are of the utmost importance, and in agriculture we still have the opportunity to achieve concrete results at the ministerial conference. as we know, we have members who are not willing to commit themselves to anything concrete at the moment, but we must also always remember what the situation was before nairobi, the last meeting. so we still have a chance to get a constructive result in buenos aires, if we just go there with an ambitious agenda. and i believe that's what we're going to do.
mr president, i would remind the commissioner that parliament, led by the rapporteur ms schaake, is now discussing the eu digital trade strategy and it is very important that the eu should manage to bring its values and norms in digital trade to multilateral bodies such as the world trade organization. however, i would like to issue a brief warning: in my view, this should not be done at the cost of unfinished negotiations in the wto. i would like to know what you think about this, commissioner. there are challenges for the global south in including this very important new dimension in trade agreements at all, so i would suggest that before formally engaging in negotiations on new topics we should conclude the doha round. let me also point out that the eu has a lot to do in terms of increasing the transparency of the wto’s processes and introducing the sustainable development goals to its work.
mr president, the eu provides a lot of financial support to countries whose values are still marred by deep-rooted corruption and human rights abuses. we have reason to reflect on our values, because our own values have become much more rigid in recent times: we speak of peace and equality between people, but in practice we have whole families living on the streets and europeans are divided into winners and losers. what do we expect in return for the money from our eastern partners: that people belonging to different language groups, for example, should be entitled to receive the services they need and children be taught in their own language, or that in some of the eastern partnership countries their corrupt leaders continue to arrogantly collect eu money for their own pockets?
i thank the council, and mr maasikas, this is the first time i have chaired a plenary session as vice-president, and this subject is very close to my heart, as is the following one. but before we move on, i will give the floor to two other rapporteurs. first of all, mrs. andrikienė, two minutes, please.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report (a8-0236/2017) by mr salvatore ciccu, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2016/1036 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union and regulation (eu) 2016/1037 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union (com2016) 0721 c8-0456/2016 2016/0351 cod).
i am not saying that the council should be left alone.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mr ponga, drawn up on behalf of the committee on development, on the eu strategy for africa: accelerating development (a8-0334/2017).
mr president, i would like to thank mr ponga for a very good report. this eu-africa summit is coming to a head, and it has rightly chosen to focus on investing in young people. we know that africa has a very young and rapidly growing population. around the world, quality education and good skills are the key to a better future - and so is africa. it is therefore important now to find concrete solutions to improve the quality of education at all levels in africa and, above all, to ensure that girls also have access to education. it is good that the emphasis is also being placed on the rights of girls and women and the right of women to family planning. it is important for africa's sustainable future, as is the promotion of entrepreneurship and sustainable investment in energy and transport projects. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it is very important for the future of both africa and europe.
the question of the blue card. you said that poland has a legally elected government. that is true, and my question is, do you think that a legally elected government has the right to do anything? does it not bind poland to the fact that we, as member states of the european union, are committed to the common values of human rights and the rule of law? the fact that a legally elected government can do anything is an abuse of power.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, a wise nation learns from history. the revolution was the result of the fact that with the industrial revolution, a large part of the population, adults and children, no longer had value as part of the production machinery. the possessive part was not interested in how people lived or survived, their dignity and rights were a liability, and education meant being difficult to control. all that mattered was the highest possible return at the lowest possible cost. disparity in this world has never led to anything good. today we see the effects of corruption, human exploitation and the greed of the system. we are still surprised by the rise of radicalism and the appeal of the far right. why would you do that? think of the clothing industry in asia, where european companies buy clothes and fabrics, or our own europe, where the loudspeakers of big business demand that people do a variety of jobs for minimum wages to earn a living while the ownership percentage revels in their tax havens. by making all education compulsory, we are lowering the level of civilization and education and the people are becoming part of the production machine again. is it any wonder, then, that the continued disparity between people is leading to a civil uprising? i hope that we have learned something from history and that we have understood that the path of inequality is not the smart one for europe or for any other region.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commission, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the objectives set out in the proposals to be fully achievable. it is not possible to say that they are impossible, because it has been shown that the technology could have been developed for years, but there have been no real legislative guidelines. as europe's largest exporter, the automotive industry has always been concerned about ambitious emission reduction targets. the reality is that nothing happens in climate action on transport unless the targets are strong enough and in place. unfortunately, the emissions scandal has shown us in the transport sector how ruthlessly loopholes in legislation have been exploited for decades. i am positively surprised that the commission now dares to take the bull by the horns. i think it is a smart decision for the commission not to set quotas for car manufacturers to produce electric cars, but to remain tech nologically neutral. in the case of public transport, it is vital that we take action so that we can combine transport modes and their versatility, because climate change is not going to wait, we have to act together. the eu can be a 'trendsetter' in the fight against climate change, but it needs to act as a guiding force. i thank the commission for getting things moving. nothing but courage. let's go forward together with courage!
the commission's mobility package is indeed a welcome and expected package. we know that transport is actually the only sector where emissions have only increased. the volume of traffic is constantly increasing, so that now we need really effective measures to stop the growth of emissions. we must strive to have more efficient vehicles with lower emissions, to find more environmentally friendly fuels and to design the whole transport system more efficiently, and there are many opportunities in this area for us to benefit from digitalisation. it is good that the commission has adopted a technology neutral approach in its own proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the car manufacturers themselves can apply for the best technology to achieve that reduction in emissions. this is the right place to start. it is also good that the commission wants to support research and development into alternative fuels, including battery technology, and to continue to promote the construction of these charging and refuelling points throughout europe. however, at the same time it is important to remember that it takes time for the fleet to regenerate and therefore the fastest way to achieve rapid emission reductions now is to increase the use of advanced renewable biofuels, as they can be used in the existing fleet. i am rather disappointed that the commission, in its own renewable energy directive, set a really low target for renewable biofuels, these transport fuels, and there is a debate in parliament now about whether that target should be raised. it can be done in a sustainable way, and it's the fastest way to reduce emissions now. it will take time for transport to be electrified, but it makes sense to promote it.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162)
the following debate is scheduled: sirpa pietikäinen, simona bonafén, mark demesmaeker, gerben-jan gerbrandy, luke ming flanagan and benedek jávor, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the question to be put to the council for an oral answer on the evaluation of the implementation of environmental legislation (o-000065/2017 - b8-0606/2017 and sirpa pietikäinen, simona bonafén, mark demesmaeker, gerben-jan gerbrandy, luke ming flanagan and benedek jávor, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the question to be answered orally to the commission on the evaluation of the implementation of environmental legislation (o-000066/2017 - b8-0607/2017).
i have received one motion for a resolution. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 16 november 2017. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mr javi lópez, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on combating inequalities as a factor in job creation and growth (2016/2269 ((ini)) (a8-0340/2017).
madam president, the alde group supports the outcome of the conciliation committee's work and tomorrow we will vote in favour of adopting next year's budget. i believe that this budget will help us to boost the european economy, which is in a positive state. we are making a significant contribution to reducing youth unemployment and improving the opportunities for smes. we're also making progress on increasing climate finance. however, it is regrettable that we are still not meeting our commitment to the paris agreement to contribute 20% of the budget to climate finance. i hope that when the commission presents the next annual budgets, it will ensure that the budget is in line with the commitments we have made. we believe that we are making the right decision by cutting turkey's pre-accession funding by eur 105 million. respect for human rights and the rule of law are at the heart of european values. i am glad that we are now sending a strong political message to the turkish leadership and are not just following on the sidelines the recent worrying developments in the country. the citizens often judge the acceptability of the eu from the point of view of its use of money. in my capacity as negotiator for my group, i am increasingly convinced that we need a clearer and more transparent budget and use of eu money. if we continue like this, we cannot build lasting trust in our union. the next few years will not be easy, even from a budgetary point of view. the british are leaving, and a major net contributor is leaving our ranks. the eu, that is, we, must also be able to innovate, to save on expenditure and to direct it to new objectives. the majority in the european parliament is constantly calling for an ever-increasing budget. many member states disagree. we have to find a solution. the priorities of the european union are changing and the new priorities must have the necessary funding. but this cannot mean that the priorities are simply increasing. then we have no priorities, and everything is just as important. so we have to find savings and re-prioritize. in this job, we as decision-makers have a lot of room for improvement. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mureșan, for his very meritorious and cooperative work.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, thursday 30 november 2017. written declarations (rule 162)
the commission has adopted a communication on the state of the energy union in 2017 (2017/2856 ((rsp)).
commissioner, you have a very important message, but i think the interpreters would appreciate it if you spoke a little less quickly.
thank you very much, commissioner. it is clear that the interpreters would be more comfortable if you would slow down your speech a little more.
in writing. i believe it is important that the eu always uses its public funds wisely, including when it comes to spending outside the eu. the text adopted emphasizes this point of view, since supporting the activities of the defence forces of other countries is always a far-reaching decision. that is why it is good that money cannot be used for other countries' current military expenditure. i also think it is important that the effectiveness of the use of money be assessed, because we must not create additional administrative structures or automatic expenditure machines. it is too early to comment on the operation of the instrument in the next multiannual financial period, but in view of the uk's withdrawal from the eu, i think it is justified to look at all the activities critically, so that no additional burden is placed on net contributors to the eu such as finland. i want to believe that the instrument will contribute to the objectives it has set itself and i will follow developments with interest.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, i am happy to see that the commission is finally ready to move forward from the old-style investor-state dispute settlement (isds) system and has decided to replace it with the permanent multilateral investment court. the problems of the traditional isds system are many and well known. already two years ago, the commission stated that it would provide a full replacement of the old isds mechanism with a ‘modern, efficient, transparent and impartial system for international dispute resolution’. that is a quote. again, the commission has stated that it needs a court that is based on public trust. therefore, the opening of negotiations to set up this system is very welcome. in order to gain public trust, however, the commission must be able to answer the questions that this parliament and european citizens have posed. the key question for public trust is: what improvements will this multilateral investment court bring in terms of access to dispute settlement for states, investors and, especially, affected third parties who are often completely denied access to justice? i see the multilateral investment court improving on the technical and procedural problems of the investment court system. but reforming only the institutional and procedural aspects of the system will not solve its fundamental flaws. it does not provide a full replacement of the old system, as was promised two years ago. in the negotiations the eu must build a court to which states and affected third parties may also bring cases: a court that protects states’ and citizens’ rights, not just investors’ rights. otherwise, we are not providing trade for all, commissioner, but only for the privileged few.
mr president, the report before us is an essential part of the process of normalising financial markets after the crisis. the stability of financial markets and the sustainability of the recovery continue to be threatened by unregulated credit and systemically important banks. the text agreed in the trilogue is part of the banking package for the construction of the banking union. i am not in favour of new loans that increase solidarity, and neither is the new type of debt created by the member states. the new type of debt is necessary to meet the globally agreed debt hierarchy requirements to cover losses in liquidation situations before other debt obligations such as derivatives, collateral deposits or tax liabilities that are excluded from the overall loss coverage of the largest banks. the report is a small but important step towards easing the burden on taxpayers in future banking crises.
the rapporteur. mr president, after a long process, the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and kazakhstan is now before parliament's plenary session, with the power to approve or reject this agreement. parliament supports the agreement but calls for improvements in the human rights situation. it is good that this agreement strengthens political dialogue and cooperation with civil society. respect for human rights and the rule of law will form the basis of this agreement and future cooperation. the agreement strengthens political and economic cooperation with kazakhstan, a key country in central asia. the european union is kazakhstan's largest investor and a very important trading partner. the country is also important in the implementation of the european union's strategy for central asia. cooperation will strengthen trade, energy and sustainable development issues, and enhance cooperation in foreign and security policy, such as counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism. the european parliament is calling for tangible and concrete reforms on human rights. economic interests must not be allowed to trample on human rights, but must go hand in hand. europe will lose its soul and its idea if and when other priorities take precedence over human rights. this european parliament resolution calls for the recognition and protection of the freedoms of expression, assembly and association. the rule of law also requires an independent and impartial judiciary. we encourage kazakhstan to continue to cooperate with the venice commission to improve its legislative work. the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the freedom of action of journalists and ngo activists must be safeguarded. we believe that now is the eleventh opportunity for kazakhstan to change the laws of the country which restrict the rights of workers. it is absolutely unacceptable that those who peacefully oppose land reform are sentenced to up to five years in prison. the house also called for the release of mr bokayev and mr talgat ayan from prison, as called for by the un human rights council. freedom of the press has also been curtailed and the work of critical journalists has become increasingly difficult. it is also unacceptable that the work of journalists and civil society activists is restricted. parliament called on the high representative, federica mogherini, to ensure that, once the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement has entered into force, a comprehensive system of democratic controls between the eu and parliament is established. parliament welcomed the start of the human rights dialogue and hoped that kazakhstan would be willing to ensure regular cooperation with civil society representatives. we sincerely hope that the ambitious cooperation agreement will be implemented step by step by both parties.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you for the debate. as commissioner jourová said, this cooperation agreement has already borne fruit, with the release of prisoners. i believe that kazakhstan will take account of these critical views expressed in parliament today. i believe that the great value of the european union, indeed the greatest value of all, is reflected in this treaty: the desire for dialogue and development, but the adherence to its own fundamental values, such as the rule of law and democracy. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work and, in fact, i would also like to thank the commission and the foreign affairs council very sincerely for their very open and good cooperation with regard to this agreement with kazakhstan. we have received all the information we need and have had a useful and constructive discussion with your experts throughout.
mr president, the report by the pana committee of inquiry has aroused a great deal of opinion both in favour and against. the listing of intra-eu tax havens has been a particularly sensitive issue. whatever solution is reached now, it is clear that sooner or later this problem must be addressed. in the slightly longer term, this is also in the interest of citizens of tax haven countries. if the financial and tax planning sectors get too much power, eventually everyone loses. there are also many other important points in the pana report. i would stress the need to develop a common definition of tax havens, better regulation of free zones, greater ambition in the fight against money laundering in third countries, strengthening the code of conduct for companies and the elimination of intermediaries for tax evasion and avoidance. the main initiatives have in common that they require long-term monitoring. that is why the good work of the pana committee of inquiry must be continued with even greater care... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (the speaker declined to answer the question on the blue card (under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is designed to stimulate economic growth and employment. their implementation depends, among other things, on the complementarity of the projects financed, i.e. that the projects would not have been implemented without esif funding. however, if we look at the recent decision of the european investment bank, the eib, to finance the tripla shopping centre in pasila, helsinki, with eur 130 million in loans guaranteed by the esif, i wonder how the complementarity is achieved. the project itself may be reasonable, even if the main beneficiaries of the project are private companies. the competitive development of the financing package includes not only the eib but also other banks, a sound helsinki and a large amount of private financing. the funding seems to have been sufficient amidst the abundance of all the european central bank funding available, which makes it difficult for me to believe that the project would not have been realised without the involvement of the esif or the eib. if complementarity is not achieved, it is a waste of esif funds. the complementarity must be assessed at the time of funding and the absence of such impact assessments raises doubts. the use of funds and the results of the impact assessments are not sufficient to justify the continuation of the esf.
the rapporteur. mr president, this vote by parliament is the culmination of a process which has lasted for many years. i think it is important to stress the importance of this great work by calling on the kazakh authorities once again to release political prisoners and to strengthen the human rights dialogue which is already under way. if that happens, we in the european parliament can be proud of these votes.
mr president, concrete steps have been taken this year in european defence policy, and this is very positive and welcome. it is time for europe to take more responsibility for its own defence. we can undoubtedly achieve significant economic and security policy benefits by better joint defence planning, by more jointly targeting procurement and by responding to the challenges of a broader security policy in complementarity with nato. but i would like to focus on one particular point which has also been raised in this report by mr gahler, and that is article 42 (7) on common defence. the content of this directive is still not fully defined and we know that member states interpret it very differently. the european parliament demanded two years ago that the commission should start preparations to define clearly the responsibilities, the procedures and the guidelines for the interpretation of this article. i now ask the high representative, mrs mogherini, whether the commission has undertaken any such work? if that article is actually used and wanted to be used, the process would be quite confusing, because there is no ready-made model.
i'm sorry, but we don't allow this kind of demonstration from that newspaper, so i'm asking you to respect the restraint.
thank you, mr. gahler, i'm always impressed by your knowledge of finnish.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 13 december 2017. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the iran nuclear agreement.
madam president, i think the two-state model is actually the reason why the so-called peace process has made so little progress over the past 23 years. firstly, israel will not withdraw their military from the west bank. one only needs to look at the map to understand why. secondly, israel will not evacuate half a million jews from the west bank and east jerusalem, as that would result in a civil war. with the israeli military presence and the settlements, a viable palestinian state is hardly possible. any serious plan should be based on what is possible and realistic. i think the recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel by mr trump could be the first step out of this deadlock.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of migrants in libya.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the situation of illegal migrants trying to reach europe in libya is tragic. but the solution is not to create more legal pathways for these people to europe. president juncker, for example, has recently made such a statement. migrants will continue to come to libya as long as europe continues to attract them with poor border controls, generous asylum policies and ineffective return practices. these are the attractions that need to be addressed. people are moving from sub-saharan africa because of poverty. poverty is sustained above all by a huge birth rate. africa's population is predicted to grow to as many as four billion during this century. this is something that the root system has to address. migration to europe is not the answer. the integration of third world migrants has failed miserably so far, and the situation is only going to get worse as the numbers grow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, last week my country, finland, turned 100 years old. the story of finland is a story of rise. from one of the poorest countries in europe, it grew over the decades into one of the most equal and prosperous countries. equal social opportunities have been a key factor: counselling, free education, public health care, and the organisation and protection of workers. everyone is involved in the development. now, with a right-wing government, my own country has become a country that is afraid of the eu's minimum standards, upward cohesion and cooperation in sharing best practice. unfortunately, finland is not alone in the council. when did we europeans start to fear improving people's living conditions? social investment is a source of economic growth. the eu needs a strong pillar of social cohesion, as many europeans no longer recognise the eu as the defender of their rights. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is already in force, and the rights of europeans have been left behind by other policies. i hope the gothenburg summit was a new beginning.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in the sustainable development goals there are two sides – firstly to decide how the european union is acting towards third countries and the rest of the world to get the goals right, and there, indeed, i think we need quite a lot more and better coherence. then, on the other side, when we look inside – and i thank commissioner thyssen for mentioning this – when you are getting closer to the goals or you have progress that actually does not mean that you have achieved the goal or that the progress would be anything else than just nominal as we can see in biodiversity or in the state of oceans when we refer to life below the waters for example, and other such matters, with the climate effect actions that are being dictated here in europe very heavily at the moment. that is why i congratulate the commission and eurostat on being so effective, of having effective indicators and the eurostat monitoring scoreboard where we can see the actions. what i would hope is that we could have in the future this sort of sustainability or end goal so we could really measure how close or far we actually are from the sustainable achievement or target itself. the second point is that to be really effective inside the eu, i hope that you could work with the council in the future so that we could get this monitoring on all of these 17 points to the european semester so that we could follow up and monitor effectively what the member states are doing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the sdg agenda is deeply social in the sense that the core and underlying principle is ‘leave no-one behind’, and this is most appropriate following the debate that you have just led, ms commissioner, on the implementation of the social pillar of the european union. this is of course what we also have to practise in our external programmes and policies. there needs to be a deep commitment to fighting inequalities and in favour of equality. basically, the challenge for me would be that we cannot go on taking decisions as if it were business as usual. we cannot work in silos, and i think this has been understood but not really implemented yet. for instance, in our house we don’t have a mechanism, to my knowledge, to make sure that our efforts for the implementation of the sustainable development goals are concerted and coordinated. i think we should all together think about a mechanism for how that could be done, because we need to reach true coherence in our policies. in fact we do have some ideas already from existing policies. we do have the notion of policy coherence for development, which we have been insisting on very much, mr goerens, for at least five years if not longer. we should use the mechanisms that we have been able to put in place for policy coherence for development and expand them to all sustainable development goals. we also have the commission’s trade for all policy paper which has been revised recently and it also gives some instruments and indications for how we should combine our efforts across the board. finally, the high-level expert group on sustainable finance is just about to publish its proposals. we will have to see how we will improve our investment policies so that they are truly sustainable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think it is very childish to try and ban symbols, even if they represent repulsive ideologies such as national socialism, or communism for that matter. first, it is difficult to define what exactly is banned and in what context. symbols such the swastika or the red star are universal motifs and have different meanings in different cultures. it is even more difficult to define expressions. second, we would never reach an agreement on which destructive ideologies are bad enough for the symbols to be banned. the criteria would be political not objective. third, if you ban a symbol representing a certain ideology, the proponents of that ideology will just invent a new symbol which resembles the old one just enough to be understood, but not enough to meet the definition. i must say i disagree with mr maasikas, symbols alone have no power: they are ink on paper. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i don’t believe extremism stems from symbols of extremism. what i wanted to point out is it would be very difficult to make a definition which would ban the nazi swastika but not the swastika in other contexts, used in different cultures in different times and places.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 14 december 2017. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on freedom of expression in vietnam, and in particular the motion for a resolution on the nguyen van hoan case (2017/3001 ((rsp)).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 14 december 2017.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on cambodia (opposition ban) (2017/3002 ((rsp)).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 14 december 2017.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on el salvador (prosecution of women for miscarriage) (2017/3003 ((rsp)).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 14 december 2017. written declarations (rule 162)
