mr president, i simply wish to point out that a technical error occurred during the vote. when you checked the vote for tomorrow or today from the item on the agenda, the bulletin board did not appear correctly on the screens. we have only seen the figures, not the image of the house.
mr president, the european union is not doing well because of its own weaknesses and the recurrent lack of political will on the part of its national leaders, and this at a time when we are facing increasingly serious challenges: the crisis of our economy and employment, the refugee and migrant crisis, terrorism, wars at our borders and the departure of the united kingdom. all this at a time when the american and russian governments are each playing their own game with all the risks that this entails. this difficult time should be a demand for europe and europeans to act. europe must finally decide to exist on its own. i am pleading with you for a european upsurge. it is time to move towards the re-founding of our union. it is time to put the package together for sustainable growth and bring about the fiscal and social harmonisation and political governance we have been waiting for for a long time in the euro area. it is time to speak with one voice to finally weigh in on syria, iraq, the way out of crisis and war and on the world diplomatic stage. it is time to sit down and lay the foundations for a genuine european security and defence policy and, as you said, mr prime minister, it is time to implement a common policy worthy of the name in the fields of asylum, migration and development. european citizens expect their leaders to finally rise to the challenge. the responsibility of the latter is therefore clearly assumed. they have an obligation to act and succeed.
mr president, the priorities of the maltese presidency are not very different from those of its predecessors and this is in keeping with the logic of working in trio between three successive presidencies. i would like to take this opportunity to respond to mr juncker, mr weber, mr lamberts and mr verhofstadt who have felt that they should use this opportunity to stigmatise the populists, extremists and eurosceptics that we are. as if, by some kind of gratuitous malice, we were somehow breaking your toy. but that is not the case at all. we simply see that the constant abuse of paralysing regulations does not allow the european union to respond to the challenges facing our countries, whether it be the persistent economic and social crisis, the migration crisis, insecurity or terrorism, and of course we regret this situation. malta has also been an outpost protecting europe from islamic invasion. i hope that today she will live up to her historic destiny.
mr president, mr prime minister, on 1 january malta took over the presidency of the council of the european union, at a time when the challenges facing our continent have probably never been greater. on behalf of the french delegation to the epp group, i am pleased to see that the first priority of the maltese presidency will be the management of the refugee crisis. there is an urgent need to respond to the legitimate concerns of the vast majority of our european citizens. in 2016, we fought in the european parliament to get the pnr, the air passenger screening file, passed. we also committed ourselves to the establishment of a stronger border and coast guard agency to serve security and stability. let us therefore continue along the path of realism, because it is by achieving results that we will face the extremes for which instability is a breeding ground. the time has come to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, and brexit negotiations will officially begin. we will have to be firm because a europe according to the map is not a sustainable solution. the british, led by an unprepared government, are already realizing the bleak prospects of the country's exit from the union. so let us have a clear direction: increased border controls, the fight for greater security on the continent, commitment to a strong economy through investment and defending our interests in trade agreements or the fight against fiscal and social dumping. these are the issues on which europe will have to act forcefully in the coming weeks, united and pragmatic in the face of the geopolitical challenges it faces.
madam president, at the beginning of the week we had mr trump's surreal speech on the union with its load of criticism and ad hominem attacks and i really regretted the lack of a common reaction from the european institutions. then yesterday we had theresa may's brexit speech which, at least, had the merit of clarity. the context forces us to. it obliges us to move forward, it obliges us to rebuild europe, to make it more united, stronger, more political, and to make it respected in the world. a europe capable of producing sustainable growth and social progress, a europe capable of taking care of its own defence, a europe capable of providing the right answers to the world's challenges: migration, development, climate, terrorism. it is to this meeting, the meeting of the re-founding of europe, that our fellow citizens are now waiting for us.
madam president, mr tusk, let me first of all express my regret that the latest council conclusions have ignored some priorities, such as economic and monetary union and a consolidated tax base for companies. a few words about the priorities you mentioned. in matters of defense, you ask for our support. but the council must be consistent: either we stick to a preparatory research action and its 90 million euros, or we talk seriously about a defence europe and stop pretending that budgetary redeployments will be enough. for this and many other priorities, the budgetary question can no longer be avoided. on youth unemployment, if we look at the speeches, we would think there was a magnificent unanimity. but when it comes to cashing in... so, in our last budget negotiations, parliament did indeed get €500 million, but at the same time the council was trying to impose that this should be the balance of all accounts until the end of the financial framework. priorities are piling up, but budget deficits are running out. the council is increasing commitments while tightening the purse strings. and since we cannot continue to stifle the budgets of the member states, mr president, it is time to put own resources on the council's agenda. the report of mario monti's high-level group has just been published. parliament is preparing its position and we bet it will be offensive. my question is simple: when will the council give its position on the monti report? i would remind you that it should be in place before the end of 2017 because it will undoubtedly be at the heart of the negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework.
madam president, the european council of 15 december illustrated the suicidal stubbornness of the european union. it confirms that the union is obstinate in its disastrous migration policy. it wants to continue to apply the march 2016 agreement with turkey, even though turkey is clearly moving further and further away from european values and civilization. he also wants to 'accelerate the relocation of migrants', despite the open opposition of three countries: hungary, slovakia and poland. it is suicidal, because the union cannot continue to mock the will of the european peoples for very long. the european council itself has given evidence of this under pressure from a dutch referendum. he was forced to clarify that the agreement with ukraine does not confer on that country the status of a candidate country for accession to the union. the netherlands has thus given the union a good lesson in democracy.
madam president, i believe that the council of 15 december has made the world more dangerous, given the violence it encourages. firstly, on immigration, you have decided to deal with the control of arrivals by entrusting yourself to two obscurantist and violent border guards who are responsible for turkey and libya. as far as russia is concerned, you are maintaining absurd sanctions that are maintaining irresponsible tension and you intend to forcefully enforce an agreement on ukraine, which the dutch people have already said they do not want. after brexit, you are basically proposing a europe of war against russia as a common project for europe. in 1954 my country already said 'no' to the european defence community and i tell you plainly that you are dreaming if you imagine that we are going to push the nuclear deterrent button in your confused meetings. it turns out that all your pro-atlanticist and pro-nato statements are absolutely outdated by the situation, because mr. trump's agenda from now on is that china and europe are his competitors and designated adversaries. in short, if you want to strengthen europe, strengthen the people. unite the people through social progress and a vision of a future that is something other than finance and war. france will soon vote and germany will too. i hope that this will be an opportunity to make a new european proposal to you than the one you are making to us.
mr president, i would like to make a brief point on the rules of procedure on the basis of rule 11 (3) of our rules of procedure, which states in particular that members' conduct is to be inspired by mutual respect. in the debate we have just had, one of our colleagues, mr peter lundgren, a swedish mep from the efdd group, said, and i quote: 'it is absolutely fabulous to see the future that all the negroes in this house will have when we hear mr tusk's speech'. these words appear to me to be offensive and to reflect a racial or racist view of society. i would like you to consider the possible prosecutions or sanctions you may be required to take as a result of these remarks which have no place in this house.
mr president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, i would like to tell president tajani that now that he is the president of this house, he must carry the mandate he has adopted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 tonnes. we ask the new president of parliament to take up this part of the work of our house too, because we can see that it is parliament that is giving the impetus at a time when, at council level, there is still hesitation even within the framework of the enhanced cooperation that has been put in place. we can see that, even in my country, france, a tax on financial transactions was introduced and brought in €1 billion in 2015. so do you not think that we need this new resource also to finance the union budget, just as we need it to finance the ecological transition and our external actions? some people say, "ah, but that's not possible. we must do it at the global level and then we can do it at the european level. they are the ones who can tell us the opposite. quite frankly, the experience of a number of member states shows that we can start in the area of enhanced cooperation and move towards a tax that helps to reduce market instability, whether it is a tax on intra-day transactions or on high-frequency trading. it is time for us to move forward in this circle of enhanced cooperation at council level. the less this financial transaction tax is introduced, the more, given the difficulties facing the member states, they ask the citizens to fill their budgets. it is time for the financial markets to step in.
mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, the financial transaction tax must cease to be that sea serpent which is waved in front of us as if to distract us. we must now have the courage to take a decision about it and not just make a display of it, but a real tax with a rate of at least 0.1% to 0.5% on all speculative financial movements, stocks, bonds and all this speculative machinery invented to make money money, simply by circulating, against productive investment. this is one of the conditions for taking action against speculation and redirecting the money thus collected towards the common good, social and environmental progress. we must now stop listening to the financial world and stop giving in to it. we must listen to the people and serve them, serve the general interest.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on emergency aid for refugees and migrants facing severe weather in camps in europe (2017/2502 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the foreign preference that the european union is trying to implement on a daily basis is particularly scandalous, especially because of the 120 million europeans who live in poverty on a daily basis. the common denominator between the homeless and the poor retired is that they are not illegal migrants and thus do not receive the full attention of european social policies. i will just remind you of the title of this debate: aid to migrants facing severe weather. as if our homeless people weren't suffering from the same weather patterns. while our morality should not lead us to establish a hierarchy between the misery of others and ours, we must nevertheless use common sense. in my country, however, elected officials like the mayor of paris rushed to build reception centres for migrants while they watched thousands of homeless people sleeping on the pavement every night in total indifference. common sense would have us think of ourselves first before thinking of others.
in writing. the cold wave in europe has caused at least 65 deaths, mainly among homeless people and migrants. unicef in particular warned of the situation of children living in migrant camps in the balkans and greece, 23,700 of whom are reportedly at risk of hypothermia or serious respiratory illnesses. this new humanitarian crisis linked to the migration explosion has prompted calls for a new emergency plan to support the host states, notably bulgaria, greece and serbia, thus highlighting the difficulty for the european union to ensure sustainable funding for the reception of migrants. refugees have absorbed 72% of the eu's humanitarian budget and a significant share of the security policy budget (€2.38 billion in 2016). emergency funds and agreements with third countries to stem the flow of migrants (turkey, libya) complement this budgetary package, which is still difficult to assess overall. this human tragedy rightly moves us to emotion and indignation. it also stressed the urgency of finding a just and realistic solution to the migration crisis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate my colleague, mrs ayala sender, on her work. i believe that his report is a balanced work which advocates not reform but a necessary evolution of ten-t policy in europe. the major european corridors are, in my view, the expression of a strong europe when it is united. this policy has made it possible to realise the benefits of the internal market. it is in fact a means of creating interconnections between national networks and of building transport infrastructure in the service of economic growth. but this policy which brings people together must also have an environmental dimension. too many sectors are now seriously affected by pollution and therefore by health problems caused by the high level of carbon emissions from our transport. we therefore need to make further progress on the decarbonisation of transport in europe. the alpine valleys around mont blanc have recently experienced almost 50 days of air quality pollution, not just from transport but also from transport. so we have a common challenge, which is to develop new forms of transport, to develop a decarbonised intermodality, which means that we have to trust new technologies and invest more in research. it is europe's budget, europe's action, that can make us all move forward together.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the pretensions of this dossier are quite proportionate to its thickness and the artistic blurriness which mixes pious vows of protection of individuals, equal opportunities and access to work, economic and above all monetary concepts. you clearly state certain aims, such as the creation of a european pillar of social rights which can serve as a compass for the convergence of the euro zone, and you are thus clearly saying that the euro zone has lost its compass. you also admit that harmonization of health and safety at work will require harmonization of social systems, that is, of their national characteristics, to the detriment of subsidiarity and proportionality. all this is a thinly veiled attempt to hide more informal goals, such as the capture by states of social budgets to pay off their national debts, especially in the euro area, where the unemployment rate is two percentage points higher than in non-euro areas. the european central bank (ecb) will then be the only one able to operate, as it already does for banks, the 'monetary helicopter' designed to provide a safety mat against poverty. it's not a fiction, it's for tomorrow. if we believe the projections less than ten years from now, we will see massive losses of secondary jobs due to the widespread use of digital and robotic processes. it will be the universal income, the heir to the european minimum wage, which will put all europeans within the official poverty thresholds. for all these reasons, we are against this text.
mr president, commissioner, europe will be social or it will not be. we cannot simply base our life together on a single market. competition is no longer viable without convergence. by supporting this initiative for a social pillar, we are sending a strong message. parliament wants a europe that protects precarious workers, supports young people and the elderly, combats discrimination, encourages the mobility of apprentices and enables everyone to find a job. it is also a challenge for our small and medium-sized enterprises and our artisans, who suffer from social dumping and the lack of coordination between countries. all the measures we take must be such as not to make hiring more difficult and not to undermine subsidiarity. on new digital jobs, i think there is an urgent need to clarify the rules to promote a fair and equitable digital economy. but to create a new directive when we have not yet defined these new jobs is, in my view, premature. ladies and gentlemen, social europe is a priority and i will vote for this report.
mr president, the first of the rights which the european union must guarantee to its citizens is, of course, the right to work. but that is not enough, it must be a decent job which allows everyone to live his life, to make his own choices and to participate in the life of the community. the report by maria joão rodrigues, which is intended to give the commission an idea of what the european pillar of social rights should be, is a comprehensive response to the promises made here by mr juncker on the triple a social agenda. this right to work must include other protective rights for both men and women employees, who must not be faced with the uncertainty of the future. how can you build a life with a zero-hour contract? how can you build your life with the worry of not having a pension? how can you live with the fear of not being treated when you get sick? how can we build our lives without access to public services and digital technology? the union must answer these questions and, of course, provide the necessary funding for them. otherwise, we'd be stuck in the realm of the incantation.
in writing. the report on the european pillar of social rights is a landmark report in the construction of a social europe at the service of european citizens. this report is the european parliament's response to the commitments that president juncker has not yet made in favour of a social triple a europe. a strong and ambitious response, which is expressed in several concrete proposals: a framework directive on decent work, a directive on health at work or the integration of a social protocol into the treaties to guarantee fundamental social rights. the report also proposes far-reaching reforms to establish a decent minimum income throughout europe. the commission will have to take account of all these proposals if it is to meet its commitments. finally, i would urge you not to vote for the amendments which are designed to lower the level of ambition of the report and to distort its proposals. it is the weakness of the social dimension of the internal market that is fuelling today's rejection of the european project. social europe is the alternative to the populist projects which advocate withdrawal into oneself. a clear and unambiguous message must be sent to the european citizens.
author. madam president, indonesia is a very large country, the largest muslim country in the world, rich in cultural and religious diversity, which is recognised by its constitution. indonesia has made significant progress towards democracy since the fall of general suharto. however, there are still concerns. this is the case with the repression of papuan peace activists. hosea yeimo and ismael alua are the symbols. the same is true of the use of archaic blasphemy laws, especially against the governor of jakarta on the eve of local elections. we could also talk about president jokowi's heavy record of executions, mainly for drug trafficking, of which serge atlaoui's case is symbolic, but also violence against lgbti people, or child labour. finally, it is time, as the indonesian human rights commission has called for, to open the file on the 1965 massacres, in which hundreds of thousands of communists or alleged communists lost their lives, and their descendants continue to be persecuted in indonesia. so, yes, the human rights dialogue is making sense in this country.
madam president, as someone who knows the region a little, i would like to point out to my colleagues that the remarks of the christian governor of jakarta, ahok, are being exploited, in the manner of the 'color revolutions', in order to incite islamism. and it's caused by outside forces. if there had not been the coordinated intervention of two other outside powers, the purpose of weakening this country to establish radical islamism would have been achieved by some madmen who, indeed, from outside, support radical islam. i therefore ask my colleagues to realise that behind the events there are also manipulations and the use of islam for political purposes.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, the transition led by catherine samba-panza ended with a finding of dubious financial practices and indecent systemic clientelism. in keeping with its tradition of protecting the population, france has happily committed itself, as early as 2013, to successfully ending the massacres of the muslim minority seleka against the christian majority in the country. i take this opportunity to congratulate the french army on its action in particularly difficult conditions. in a country where the state controls only a small part of its territory and where political parties are formed on ethnic and religious grounds, everyone has turned a blind eye to the dubious legality of the elections. unfortunately, this is becoming a habit in africa today. the population is suffering from growing food insecurity and is surviving only thanks to a few ngos. since the inauguration of the new president, nothing has changed, nothing works: neither justice, nor health, nor education. blood criminals and economic predators are always on the loose. diamonds still fill the streets of antwerp or dubai with well-known central africans at the head of these mafia networks that use cameroon and sudan as crossing points. the mining sites are controlled by rebels who benefit from political complicity. today, only the imf and the european union can pay the officials who perpetuate this corrupt and failed system. there is concern that the central african republic could become the centre of rebellions in central africa and further fuel migration flows within africa. ladies and gentlemen, denying reality is not the way to improve the rule of law. africa is asking for peace, stability and cooperation. you want to be credible? we must put an end to trafficking and punish those in europe who profit from these riches at the expense of the development of these countries.
author. madam president, as has been said, the political situation in burundi is very worrying, to the point that some observers are concerned about the occurrence of a genocide. in fact, the country has experienced very little respite since its independence and the civil war has opened wounds that are difficult to heal. that is why president nkurunziza's provocations must stop. indeed, after his second illegitimate election in 2010, he succeeded in 2015 in the coup d'état of a third rigged election, contrary to the constitution of burundi and the arusha agreement. now he's mocking his people and the international community by announcing a possible fourth term. actually, he's an outlaw. if the constitution is the keystone of institutional and political stability, the arusha agreement is the keystone of social peace, since it is based on pillars that are supposed to ensure the fair representation of different ethnic groups. today, that guarantee of peace is being called into question. i would like to stress, however, that europe has contributed €22 million in humanitarian aid for all those who have left burundi, half of whom are children. therefore, among the solutions, we really need to restore fundamental rights, allow the return and inclusion of the political opposition and extend targeted sanctions.
author. madam president, burundi is the poorest country in the world. since the spring of 2015, he has been plunged into the most serious crisis since the end of the civil war, since the president decided, contrary to his commitments, to seek a third term. he's just announced that he's ready to fight a fourth. it is a vicious circle that nothing seems to be able to stop. thousands of people have been killed, hundreds of people have disappeared, tortured, hundreds of women have been sexually assaulted and, as a result, thousands of people have become refugees. yes, there is a risk of genocide. last september, the un fact-finding mission spoke of possible crimes against humanity and, in reaction, burundi decided to leave the icc. however, his mandate will remain valid for one year. yes, everything must be done to restore political dialogue and african states have a heavy responsibility in this area. do they want to act? i have doubts and fear the worst for the rwandan people and all those who still dare to defy the authorities. iteka, the oldest human rights league in africa, is a symbol of this, especially its treasurer who has been missing for several weeks.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, first of all, since you did not want to give me the floor and i will not be long, i would like to give special support to president michel and my colleague kyenge for their speeches on the central african republic. i believe that what they are saying is common sense, understanding of the situation and the transition that we must support with the new central african president. as for burundi, it is a focus of the woes of africa and, it must be said, of the crisis in the great lakes region. the misfortune of the lack of development due to the weakness of the states, the misfortune of the tribalization of power, encouraged, it must be said, by foreign societies and states, the misfortune of a region where interference and massacres follow one another. what we need to do for the great lakes region, but also for the lake chad area, is to put in place a genuine marshall plan combining security and development. without security, there is no development. without development, there is no security.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the elections in gabon last august were held in the presence of a european union observer mission and therefore with the agreement of the government in power. the mission report is overwhelming. we thank our colleagues who took part, also because they were threatened. ali bongo would have won by 6,000 votes. the results of haut-ogooué, mr bongo's home province, with a miraculous participation of 99.93% and an equally miraculous score of 95.47% in his favour, reversed the results. immediate clashes took place, and reached their climax on september 1st when jean ping's headquarters was ransacked. there have been many deaths and incredible human rights violations that continue. the mission did not draw any conclusions from these findings, probably because of the implicit recognition of the results by the french government. so we can ask for sanctions, an independent investigation, political dialogue, but first we must denounce the result of these rigged elections, this is the best way to proceed. this is the respect we owe the gabonese people.
for the greens/efa group mr president, we still have two countries, but i would say that it is a bit like two weights, two measures. why would you do that? because i appreciated, commissioner, what you said about the republic of congo. i think that there was - one might say - a good point for europe, because, faced with the coup d'état that joseph kabila wanted to make to maintain himself in power, we now know that, thanks to diplomatic pressure, the intervention of europe and the sanctions imposed, he is giving up and that, as you have indicated, a process is going to be implemented. even if it's fragile, it exists, and we have to be vigilant. on the other hand, in gabon, i think europe has been quite absent, perhaps also because the french presidency has not been dynamic enough to show the aberrations that have taken place in these elections. the report ms. gabrielle made was very clear. it shows that there was a ballot box jamming and that the results are completely aberrant. that is where europe must intervene, to impose sanctions. what i heard about the gabonese is that they don't want any more travel visas for ali bongo's family; for the members of the government, those responsible for the coup and the repression, they want a ban on residence and movement in the european union, a ban on flying over europe and a freeze on assets in europe. if we do that, it will weaken the regime, and we expect a population explosion. at the same time, as you said, we must encourage an independent investigation into the post-election violence, because it must not go unpunished, but europe must be more active in gabon.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are denouncing today is a real horror experienced by 500 000 women living in europe today, in the name of so-called traditional, social, cultural and religious practices. worldwide, according to who figures, some 140 million women, young women, young girls, little girls, have been subjected to some form of female genital mutilation. as you said, commissioner, 6 february is the international day dedicated to zero tolerance for female genital mutilation. the european parliament has always been very persistent and consistent in its efforts over the years to alert public opinion, to show determination and commitment in the fight against this absolutely intolerable form of violence against women, which - as we now know, all the studies agree - has long-lasting effects on the health and well-being of victims, but also on their training and education and career paths. female genital mutilation is an intolerable attack on human dignity and the integrity of women's bodies. you have given us a very specific point, commissioner, about the actions undertaken and the platform that has just been set up. we thank you for this very specific point, for the intensity of your commitment, for the mobilization you are showing. we continue to support you, to encourage you, to go further and further, and in particular to put pressure - if i may use this expression - on those member states which have not yet, in their case, very concretely and very systematically, adopted a voluntary action plan against this once again intolerable practice.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam commissioner, we all agree that female genital mutilation is an atrocious and barbaric practice and that it is contrary to our cultures and european civilization. according to the latest figures provided by unicef in 2016, 200 million women and girls are victims of violence worldwide, 70 million more than in 2014. in france, it is estimated that between 45,000 and 60,000 women and girls are victims of this barbaric practice. this is intolerable. i imagine that, like me, you want these dangerous practices to end, with the very serious consequences for the women and girls who are victims. but what is your answer? in paragraph 15 of mrs honeyball's report on the situation of refugee women, it is stated that 'protection for victims of female genital mutilation (fgm) must be ensured through systematic asylum procedures'. you are meddling in countries that ask nothing of you, and yet you are once again showing cowardice on this issue and doing nothing to stop this phenomenon in the countries concerned. in fact, what you're about to create is a new way of accessing immigration. encouraging mass immigration, as the european union has done for decades, without requiring the assimilation of populations, is tantamount to establishing a communitarianism that does not allow us to protect all these women who are victims of genital mutilation. it is not enough to denounce genital mutilation in this house, just as it is not enough to send an envelope of €10 million to egypt to stop the practice. let us leave it to the member states, which have exclusive competence, to act. let us give all the help we can to the countries that are fighting against these barbaric practices and let us put an end to this destructive migration policy, both for the women who are victims of mutilation and for our countries.
mr president, i am circumcised and i do not want my daughter to be circumcised. my wife gave birth to a baby girl, how can i save her from circumcision? we'd like to protect her, but my mother-in-law insists that she be cut. these testimonies are real and unfortunately such practices are perpetuated. in 2017, refusing to have a hysterectomy is still an act of bravery. the carpenter who buries her knife, the mother who says no to her in-laws, the doctor who refuses to be an accomplice - all of them are taking a risk by saying no to mutilation. there is a lot of social pressure in the name of tradition. i shall not repeat here the unsustainable horror of these mutilations. i will also not mention that this parliament has awarded the sakharov prize to a remarkable man, dr denis mukwege. here i humbly congratulate all those women and men who said, "no, these traditions will not pass through me". it's our turn to help them by saying no. commissioner, these women are also counting on you. propose solutions now, because as you said, there is still much to be done.
in writing. female genital mutilation affects, according to the world health organisation, 100 to 140 million girls and women worldwide, mainly in some states in africa or asia. deeply rooted in some ancestral traditions, fgm is an extreme form of discrimination and even persecution against women and children, since it is usually carried out on girls under the age of 15. this is not to mention their sometimes fatal complications, since only 18% of them are performed by health professionals. in europe, half a million women and girls have been or are at risk of being subjected to this type of mutilation in the european union, according to a european parliament resolution of 24 march 2009. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of equal treatment to all women, regardless of their nationality, in the same way as to women who are not members of the same family. while the overall prevalence of fgm is declining, the increase in fgm in europe highlights the deterioration of the status of women and calls for a ruthless criminal response by national courts.
i'm the reporter. mr president, last december our parliament ratified the protocol of accession of ecuador to the 2013 free trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. ecuador, the world's largest producer of bananas and the largest exporter to the union, will now benefit from a significant reduction in customs duties on its exports to the union. this is obviously a game changer and may eventually destabilise the european banana sector. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it is the source of some 37 000 jobs. it should also be noted that bananas are included in the european list of so-called "sensitive" agricultural products and that they meet high standards of sustainability in social, environmental and health matters, standards that are not applied in the latin american production chain. in this context, it is therefore very important that european banana producers be better protected. i am therefore very pleased that the position of our parliament has been heard and taken into account by the commission and the council. i would like to thank in particular our commissioner, cecilia malmström. i would also like to thank the chairman of our inta committee, the non-attached rapporteurs and the colleagues who have been very involved in this matter. thanks to all of you, we have a text which is a substantial step forward and which provides practical answers to safeguard our sector. now, not only will producers be better informed, but they will also be more involved in monitoring market developments. the commission will have to carry out an annual and in-depth study of the situation on the european banana market and of european producers, including after the expiry of the mechanism. it will also involve member states and stakeholders, allowing them to exchange information on developments on the european banana market in ad hoc meetings. this is important and it directly meets a major demand from producers. this will allow for a regular dialogue between stakeholders and the commission and address all producer concerns, such as the evolution of volumes and the impact of imports on prices and european production. the commission will also need to improve its statistical databases to allow much more detailed and regular monitoring of the situation on the european banana market and to make these data more accessible. finally, and this is very important, an early warning mechanism is created when 80% of the trigger volume of the stabilisation mechanism is reached by one of the countries covered by the mechanism. the commission will now have a legal obligation to inform parliament and the council in writing. it will also have to provide all statistical data and import volumes for the other eight countries covered, so that stakeholders can have a general overview of the situation and better forecast future overruns. if the thresholds are found to be exceeded by one of the countries covered by the mechanism, the commission will have a legal obligation to act, either by temporarily suspending the preferential duties or by demonstrating that such a taxation is not required. the commission will be required to carry out a full evaluation of the functioning of the mechanism by 1 january 2019, one year before its expiry. if, following this assessment, the commission considers that the situation of producers has deteriorated, it shall extend the period of validity of the mechanism after agreement of the stakeholders. the commission will also have to continue to carry out annual analyses of the market situation, of the situation of producers after 2020, and to take action in the event of a deterioration in production. all these changes will apply to peru, colombia, ecuador, but also to the central american countries which are parties to the association agreement with the european union. our parliament will be vigilant in implementing the joint declaration which now binds our three institutions and in respecting the commitment made by the commission during our trilogues to have an impact assessment on our outermost regions preceded by any new free trade agreement. i hope that this report will be adopted by a large majority in parliament tomorrow. we shall thus have done useful work for these regions which are so important for our europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the opening of the european banana market to ecuador is a major risk for caribbean producers. ecuador is the fourth largest producer of bananas in the world, a giant compared to the french west indies. the proposal for a regulation does provide for safeguard measures, but none of them seems to me to be sufficient. the most important is a stabilisation mechanism, which allows customs duties to be increased if a certain volume of imported bananas is exceeded. however, it was never used against peru, which has exceeded this threshold every year since 2013. the proposal does indeed attempt to improve this by creating an early warning mechanism as soon as 80% of the threshold is reached and by imposing an obligation on the commission to react, but there is no guarantee that the commission will actually react. so these backup devices are decoys. i accuse the european union of deliberately sacrificing the west indies' banana producers on the altar of ultra-liberalism.
mr president, commissioner, in the original proposal the commission considered that the stabilisation mechanism for bananas was working perfectly. it only wished to add the term 'ecuador'. we did not share this position and we have acted to modify and strengthen the measures to preserve european production. i would like to thank mrs de sarnez for her excellent work and the commissioner for her attention. we all know that this stabilization mechanism has never been applied to the andean community or to central america. the proposed early warning system and other improvements should make it easier to trigger this mechanism in the interests of our producers. i would like the commission to clarify its position on the issue of tariff dismantling today. i would like to see it commit itself not to reduce the tariff, which has been reduced from eur 114 to eur 75 per tonne for south american bananas. this is to protect the already fragile socioeconomic balance of our outermost regions and the acp countries.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for the debate here today. the free-trade agreement with ecuador is a possibility to support ecuador, its economy, its development and its efforts in diversifying its economy and giving new possibilities to the people. it also contains a chapter on sustainable development. however, i know that there have been concerns by banana producers in the european union, and that is why the amended regulation that we are about to vote on tomorrow is a good legislative tool, and i really hope that it can calm some of the concerns that you have expressed here on behalf of them. it is a tool that will guarantee the stability of the banana market and the long—term sustainability of this sector, which is so important for many europeans, especially in our outermost regions. the new regulation will provide more information. it will regularly be available, and imports will be monitored closely. it would be transparent and user—friendly, so that everybody can follow what is going on and get a full picture. you can be assured that the commission – and i, personally – will be fully dedicated to this procedure, and we will be informing and engaging with you and the whole parliament on this regularly, and we are of course ready to discuss at any moment if you have questions on this. thank you very much again, rapporteur mrs samez, for the work you have done. i would also like to thank the rest of parliament, and i am looking forward to the vote tomorrow.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i want to thank each and every one of the speakers, those who spoke this evening, i thank again commissioner cecilia malmström and i want to say something simple to you, i think we have a very good agreement here. it is a protective agreement for our european producers, it is a protective agreement for our overseas and outermost regions, which are a great asset of our european union and which must be valued. i am therefore optimistic, i think that all this is very constructive and i hope that this agreement will be widely approved by our assembly tomorrow.
in writing. through external fishing authorisations, we set the framework for the sustainability of our fishing activities worldwide. these objectives are particularly ambitious in terms of control and relations with our international partners. it is through the good behaviour of our fisheries that we will succeed in maintaining our image as a world leader in sustainability in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, known as iuu. however, i should like to warn you that the fight against iuu fishing cannot be based solely on the exemplary nature of our fleets. justice and fairness require that we be uncompromising with our partners who would not respect the rules of the game. in the fight for the sustainability of our oceans, our example alone will not be enough to change practices, trade agreements are the achilles' heels. it is therefore essential that we use all the levers at our disposal. i hope that the relations between dg mare and dg trade can be intensified, so that the european commission adopts a coherent approach to promoting sustainable fisheries worldwide.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for having been able, in this mid-term report on the implementation of erasmus+, to gather the main information needed, in particular on the national agencies' feedback on the transition with the previous programmes and their expectations regarding the necessary improvements. the report indicates that, despite some progress, there is still a great deal of work to be done in administrative simplification, as 75% of national agencies still face difficulties in this area. i also support the rapporteur's desire to rebalance the share of funding between small and large projects. as regards the budget, i note the increase of 12.7% in the total budget in 2017 compared to 2016. however, i would like to stress that these new funds will only have a real positive impact if they are managed responsibly. finally, i support the rapporteur's desire to improve the accessibility of the programme, particularly for people with disabilities and people from rural or mountainous areas.
in writing. this report is a all-encompassing text attempting to address all aspects of sport. it contains some good ideas, particularly on the fight against doping and corruption. i have tried to elaborate these proposals in committee by referring to the new challenge posed by technological doping and by stressing the dangers of the communitarianism that exists in some sports associations at local level. while i welcome some of the measures in the report, such as the fight against human beings, particularly underage athletes, i regret that the text does not go far enough in other areas. the rapporteur stresses the need to ensure the safety of sporting events without calling into question terrorism and the security challenges to be faced. i also believe that it is urgent to ensure the social, economic and ecological sustainability of these major events, so that their immediate economic interest does not override the viability of the territories. finally, i regret that this text on sport is being turned into an ideological tool for the integration of migrants, to the detriment, for example, of improving access to sports facilities for disabled athletes.
mr president, turkey is in the throes of a major accounting crisis following the failed coup last summer. president erdoğan has indeed started to crack down on all those who are afraid of him: 40,000 people have been arrested and 90,000 civil servants have been sacked. the suspects include some 40 turkish military personnel from nato who have applied for political asylum in germany. not content with having flouted all the principles of criminal law, erdoğan is now engaged in a heinous blackmail against the european union. he threatens to break the march 2016 agreement on migrants if germany does not hand over the 40 soldiers. mrs merkel had negotiated this fragile agreement behind the backs of her partners. it is right that she should suffer the consequences today. unfortunately, france will also suffer, as will the other european states, because the possible opening of the turkish migration valve would overwhelm the entire union. it is high time that france regained its sovereignty to control its borders and negotiate treaties of its own with whomever it wants.
mr president, it is indeed difficult to know what is happening in this house. that is why i am glad that we have agreed to a debate in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs which is more documented than today's debate and that a delegation can actually go to romania. what i can say is that i have known romania for a long time, since i was one of the first french people to visit romania after ceausescu's fall. i think romania is still a young democracy, that it has made a lot of progress but that it really needs to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. i believe that today we must ensure that this rule of law can actually have its prerogatives and function in romania. it is in this direction, i believe, that we must push romania. the rule of law must be respected and democracy must be respected. i think that is the root of the problem and that is where we must go.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course pleased, as are my colleagues, that this liberalisation agreement has been finalised and i would like to commend the excellent work we have done with mariya gabriel, our very efficient rapporteur. in recent years, georgia has shown a very clear desire to move closer to the union, a political but above all a practical desire, which has resulted in a number of responses to all the criteria that had been demanded and imposed, as has just been mentioned, and has made all the necessary progress in order to benefit from this liberalization regime. while i welcome this progress, it must be stressed that the many reforms implemented by georgia must not, of course, be done overnight. they must be maintained, consolidated and sustained in all key areas such as the independence and pluralism of the media, the independence of the judiciary, respect for minority rights and the fight against organised crime. this agreement marks an important step in the deepening of relations, but also because georgia is an actor, a key partner, a strategic partner in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy and more particularly the eastern partnership. i am thinking in particular - and i emphasize this - of cooperation in the field of internal affairs and the fight against organised crime. in this context, in our extremely unstable geopolitical context and for some citizens, anxious, there is no need for long comments to understand how strategic it is to establish privileged relations with these countries of the south caucasus, to make them partners and friends, friends also among citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur and all my colleagues for the excellent work that has been done on this issue. commissioner, you said that all action must be based on facts, but our parliament is regularly confronted with situations of families who face very serious difficulties when travelling in the european union. they have enormous difficulties in recognising family ties and in living a normal family life. in this and other areas, i am convinced that the european union can be the solution. in this respect, the report proposes important steps to address the fragmentation of the legal landscape in the different member states of the european union. i think that, beyond the reluctance that may be attached to certain aspects, it is the best interests of the child and, quite simply, the right to live a normal family life, which must guide our action. i believe that the proposal for a regulation annexed to this report is the best instrument for guaranteeing genuine legal certainty and effectively safeguarding the fundamental rights of these families, who are faced with these difficulties. this regulation would effectively protect children in vulnerable situations against the harmful risks of trafficking or adoption, while allowing for a peaceful family life where appropriate. finally, i welcome the fact that a strong reference is made to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights to combat any form of discrimination in adoption recognition procedures. this is a vital objective which we must defend. since this text represents real progress for the citizens, i think we in this parliament will vote for it and give it our full support and i hope, commissioner, that you will take this into account in your future work.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank mrs jourová and the rapporteur, mr zwiefka, who have done an extremely accurate and very high-quality job. i shall not make a long speech to stress what my colleagues have already said. i therefore fully support this report, which aims to impose on the countries of the european union the automatic recognition of orders issued in one of the countries of the union, in order to make life easier for adoptive parents who move around the european union. until now, there has been a terrible contradiction: the european union has succeeded in solving the question of the free movement of goods, capital, men and women, but not that of adopted children. we are on the right track and i would like to say that what touches me about this report is that it takes into account the best interests of the child. i therefore fully support and thank the rapporteur and the commission's proposal.
for the greens/efa group mr president, thank you very much for giving me the floor twice, but i will not use it for too long. i simply want to begin by thanking mr zwiefka for the work that has been done. the subject is a difficult one. it sometimes touches the conscience, it touches the family rules, so it touches the very depths of what makes up our lives. mr. zwiefka was able to find a piece of land that was a piece of land of superior interest. he said it, those are the words he used, and i want to use them again because they justify both the report and the work that we all did together, the "emotional environment" and the "child's well-being". i am grateful to you, mr zwiefka, for basing your report on these two concepts, which really sum up our position and our work. that has been said - i will not repeat it - and we are here to hear a heartfelt appeal to ensure that children do not suffer, throughout the union, from the disparity between certain laws. that is the work we have done. the automatic recognition, madam commissioner, is necessary. and, indeed, as mr cavada rightly said, we cannot have free movement for goods, free movement for finance and not have the same mutual recognition for children within the union. i would therefore like to give my full support to mr zwiefka and his report and to thank all my colleagues for their work, and to urge the commissioner to ensure that the best interests of children are taken into account in the union. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". there are no difficulties or disagreements between us. yes, the procedures are too long and we are trying to ensure that a european legal area will lead to what is known as exequatur, that is, basically, that a state recognizes an adoption that took place in another state within the union. this exists for a number of other rights and the right of adoption should be part of that, but in a particular context - i said it - it sometimes touches people's conscience. the child must not be the victim of legal disparities within the union. this is the whole point of mr zwiefka's report, so i think we agree to put an end to these lengthy procedures.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, intercountry adoption is a delicate problem which requires a balance between taking account of the interests of children and families on the one hand and respect for the sovereignty of states on the other. the hague convention of 29 may 1993 has succeeded in achieving this delicate balance. is it worth taking the risk of going further? that is what the zwiefka report thinks. while i acknowledge the good intentions of this report, i believe that it places too much emphasis on the interests of children and families at the expense of the sovereignty of states. it extends the obligation of automatic recognition to national adoptions, which seems to me to be unwise, because if we are not careful, it could force states to recognise the validity of adoptions by same-sex couples or adoptions made as a result of surrogacy. however, many european states do not recognise the validity of such adoptions. the report also advocates the creation of a european certificate of adoption, which seems to me to be an excessive interference with the competences of the member states. for these reasons i am against this report. (the president agreed to answer a question by mr glinne)
the answer is 'blue card'. you have indeed imagined some safeguards in your report, notably the national public order reserve. the problem, you see, is that i know very well how the european union works. at first it is content with a moderate text and then after several years we are told that more integration is needed and your reservations, mr president, will be overcome.
i also have the pleasure of welcoming in the official gallery mr irakli kobakhidze, president of the parliament of georgia, and the delegation accompanying him. (applause) they are on a working visit to the european parliament today and have honoured us with their presence in today's debate and vote. so it is our pleasure to welcome them warmly.
the agenda calls for voting time.
this closes the voting.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr president, we have a particularly busy plenary session this week and we have been told for a long time that this debate would take place on thursday afternoon. i would like to remind you first of all that we are of course in full agreement with this debate and would like it to take place, but we would like it to be held on thursday afternoon. i would remind you that thursday afternoon is a normal working day for the european parliament, that this is stated in the treaty and has been confirmed by the two judgments of the court of justice. there is therefore no reason to delete this debate from thursday afternoon, unless we put another one on the agenda and intervene. i would remind you that in the past the debates on thursday afternoons were on emergencies. for the time being, this debate on road tolls in germany is scheduled for thursday afternoon and we ask that it be held on that date.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, the ravages of xylella fastidiosa in southern europe and, more recently, in spain are well known. a 2007 study demonstrating the effectiveness of cow's milk enzymes illustrates the potential of biological substances in plant protection. paradoxically, these low-risk substances are difficult to obtain the necessary authorisations, despite the fact that regulations are supposed to favour them. only seven of these, including six organic, are authorised in the european union. the paradox reaches its climax when certain essential oils authorized for culinary use are denied this sesame. as the harmfulness of conventional plant protection products seems to be established and their effectiveness is being challenged by parasite resistance, there is an urgent need to support the search for environmentally and health-friendly solutions. this support is material, in the case of start-ups, and regulatory, with a revision of regulation 1107/2009.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing a steady decline in the number of active substances available on the market. we are asking our farmers for more and more quality and cheaper and cheaper products. this requires investment in research and innovation and easier access to new molecules. we set targets and it is our duty to give our farmers the means to achieve them. unfortunately, the current procedures are a significant economic barrier for manufacturers. we therefore call on the commission and the member states to simplify the type-approval procedures and to change good practice. but beware: facilitating market access must not lead to a reduction in the risk analyses carried out on these products. it is essential to ensure the health and safety of consumers and users. i have opposed an ad vitam aeternam authorization. 'biological' is not the same as 'risk-free'. after all, nature has produced the most violent poisons. let's stop pitting synthetic against organic. based on sound scientific analysis, let us use products that best meet our health, environmental and economic needs.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate our two co-rapporteurs, mr wenta and mr neuser, on their excellent work. in this report, parliament clearly sets out its political priorities for the future framework of our development cooperation. the work carried out will enable the european parliament to enter into negotiations with the council and the commission so that the new european consensus on development contributes to the achievement of the sustainable development goals, the sdgs, adopted in new york in september 2015. i had proposed many amendments which were incorporated in the report and i am pleased about that. i am thinking in particular of the need to strengthen coordination between our member states in the programming and implementation of our development aid. i also think of the importance of focusing our attention on global challenges, such as migration, security and environmental issues, and in particular the issue of access to water management, or the need to take into account the cultural dimension in our cooperation actions. we must make our development aid more effective. this objective is crucial for our partner countries as well as for our european countries.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, we reject the reform of greenhouse gas emission allowances, both for legal reasons and in principle. we do not accept the strengthening of the commission's prerogatives or the inclusion of the international maritime and air sectors in defiance of the competences of the international maritime organisation and the international civil aviation organisation. in principle, these new emission constraints will encourage unbridled competition from low-cost states, which are often unscrupulous in environmental matters. with overcapacity of 350 million tonnes, chinese steel is already flooding the market of the european union, which has been a net importer since 2015. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's steel industry is not left behind by the economic crisis.
mr president, in this debate the socialist group was the only one to defend the alliance of three ambitions: climate, industry and social. a climate ambition first. contrary to the commission's boast, the ets has so far not been able to decarbonise our economy at a lower cost. changes in greenhouse gas emissions have mainly come from the economic crisis and national energy transition choices independent of the ets. everyone agrees that the current price of a tonne of co2 is very insufficient to encourage low-carbon investments by industrialists and electricians. this sharply depressed price is the result of the gigantic surpluses of quotas in the system - between two and three billion tonnes. that is why it is important, in the name of consistency with the commitments we made in paris, to tighten the tap even more by voting a linear reduction factor of 2.4% and by removing a quota of 800 million tonnes of surplus quotas. an industrial ambition, too. i come from a working class background, i know the quality of our industries and the skills of our workers, but it is wrong to claim that investment will be stimulated simply by prolonging the status quo, that is to say by distributing free quotas widely. what have the manufacturers done with the millions of free allowances that are often distributed in excess? very often - too often - the proceeds from the sale of these quotas received went directly into the pockets of the shareholders. we must therefore put an end to these deviations. this is the whole point of the proposed changes, such as the allocation of quotas on a more dynamic basis, the revision of the benchmarks, a more ambitious investment fund or, quite simply, the mandatory redirection of surpluses to investment. but i think it's time to move to an alternative method of protecting carbon flows. the carbon border adjustment for some sectors such as cement will be decisive. our ambition is also to support the modernisation of electricity producers. it is perfectly legitimate for the european union, in a spirit of solidarity, to finance a specific component for the economically less advantaged countries, but it is equally legitimate for these sums to be invested in energy projects in accordance with our common road map. the new criteria proposed will enable all beneficiary countries to modernise their coal-fired power stations, including poland, which is already making a very long way towards phasing out coal. i would like to conclude, madam president, by also mentioning the fund for a just transition in favour of workers.
i understood that there was a problem with the display of speaking times. i shall try to follow what my colleague mr lambsdorff has done, namely to point out that you have finished your speech.
madam president, the paris agreement on climate change has had the great merit of paving the way for international awareness of climate change, and i hope that this will last. so we have to reduce our carbon footprint, otherwise the consequences could be very serious. the emission allowance market plays a fundamental role in this respect, as it will encourage the most polluting industries to constantly innovate and to think about ways of having growth rooted in our territories and respectful of our environment. the european industry is one of the best in the world in this area and has already implemented increasingly high standards. that is why we must support it, because we must not let it suffocate in the face of international competition and the millions of jobs that depend on it, and i cannot allow our industry to suffer. pollution elsewhere is not an option. that is why we need to have a real industrial strategy, while also having an active climate diplomacy. in any case, i too expect the member states to commit themselves to this ambitious path.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 february 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mr tibor szanyi, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the competition policy of the european union (2016/2100(ini)) (a8-0001/2017).
the committee on agriculture and rural development has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, commissioner, the report on the application of competition law by our colleague tibor szanyi is an important report and i would like to thank him for his cooperation in our work. this report is a precedent because it is the first time that the committee on agriculture and rural development has spoken on this subject. it sets a precedent, especially since the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development was very largely taken up by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. commissioner, the current crisis situation on agricultural markets and the increased volatility of prices now require us to make ambitious proposals to adapt competition law to the agricultural market. i was on the ground last week and i want to say that the agricultural world is waiting for us to give concrete and rapid answers on how to rebalance the relationship in the food chain. we must therefore have the courage to conduct this debate on competition law in the agricultural sector without populism but also without ideology. your appearance before the committee on agriculture and rural development on 28 february with commissioner hogan will be an opportunity to discuss this matter in greater depth, and i am at your disposal to do so.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, article 42 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the rules of competition apply to the production of and trade in agricultural products only to the extent that the european parliament and the council so determine. in the field of competition, the cap's tools must take precedence over other regulations. i would also like to recall the repeated demand by parliament for the establishment of a legislative framework to combat unfair trading practices. it is urgent that competition law no longer represents a threat to farmers and their producer organisations. this is the responsibility of the european commission. when we know the imbalance in the balance of power between production and distribution in the food supply chain, it is simply unacceptable to tax farmers like the endives of a cartel. it is important that parliament be heard on this matter in the context of the preparation of the future common agricultural policy.
madam president, the european union does not have a coherent trade policy towards china. on 27 january, under pressure from the national front, the commission decided to impose a surcharge of more than 30% on chinese steel imports. this retaliatory measure is intended to save what remains of the european steel industry. unfortunately, it is too late for florange, whose blast furnaces have been shut down because of chinese dumping, which has been allowed to flourish by the ultra-liberal dogma in brussels. the commission has not abandoned this dogma, as it has just announced the end of surcharges on imports of chinese solar panels. this is in line with mrs merkel's wish to develop free trade with china. the union is ultimately only trying to deceive the peoples of europe. it's taxing chinese steel to better distract them from the capitulation it's about to sign in all other areas.
i'm the reporter. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes history repeats itself, sometimes history stumbles. in this parliament, in december 1998, alman metten, one of our colleagues, was writing a report calling for the introduction of an adjustment mechanism to asymmetric shocks within the euro area. we hadn't listened to him then, we had moved on. today, the appointment is here. this will not be the first report to mention the need for a euro area budget, but it is the meeting point. mr timmermans, you must tell president juncker that this question of a euro-zone budget must be at the heart of the white paper. i hear voices here and there saying to us: 'talking about the eurozone at the time of brexit is a divisive topic'. i believe quite the contrary, that at the time of brexit, the situation changes. for a long time we were unable to complete the economic and monetary union because we were waiting for the british. now the british want to leave us and it is time to consolidate this euro zone, to make it the strong foundation of a european union of 27 that i aspire to, a euro zone to which all the countries of the european union, those that are not yet members, can join. but i don't want them to join an incomplete eurozone. it's time to do it. we cannot both criticize the monetary policy of the central bank as going beyond its powers and leave governments without the means to intervene. we cannot deplore the low level of investment, including in countries that are not so-called 'periphery' countries, which are at the heart of the euro area and think that the juncker plan can suffice. the issue of investment is not sufficiently addressed at the heart of our economic and monetary union. so, after much further work, this parliament, for the first time, will be clearly in favour of a euro-area budget, based on three major functions. first, the return of convergence. is it sufficiently clear that the divergences within the euro area since the crisis began have been greater than those outside the euro area? if only because the mechanisms of the stability pact have undermined the automatic stabilisers within the euro area countries. is it known that an intergovernmental mechanism has been set up which needs to be improved to deal with asymmetric shocks, with the european stability mechanism now totally underused and potentially representing a budget of 5% of the gdp of the euro area member countries? do we know that we have no tools in the euro area to deal with an asymmetric shock, a sharp rise in oil prices, a sharp fall in the level of investment? we are the only integrated monetary area that does not have the tools. i hear many people here and there saying to us: 'but there is the pact, and the pact should be the alpha and omega of economic governance'. my dear colleagues, let us be honest with each other. the stability pact has been in place for 20 years and we have seen its limits for 20 years. what we are proposing with this euro area budget is simply to equip the euro area member countries to do with their currency what they were promised on day one by allowing convergence between these economies, by allowing adjustment mechanisms to be put in place for asymmetric shocks. we do not say so in the report but we do know that there is expert work that is quite ready if the commission wants to take it up, whether through a minimum unemployment benefit or what the imf calls a rainy day fund; the euro area must also have a steering of the euro area economy beyond the rule. that is what we, together with reimer böge, propose. once again, i think the main message for us is that in the white paper that jean-claude juncker will put on the table before the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, the question of the euro zone has not been put on the back burner, on the grounds that it would be a divisive issue for a europe of 27, because i believe, on the contrary, that it is the strongest foundation on which we can build the europe of tomorrow.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it is a particular honour for me to be in this house this morning to debate a topic that is very much in the hearts and minds of everyone these days: the future of our union. the commission welcomes the initiatives of the european parliament to boldly look forward. this is something that our president, jean-claude juncker, has been promoting since the beginning of our mandate. we have closely followed the reports drawn up by ms bresso, mr brok and mr verhofstadt, and also the related reports on the eurozone budgetary capacity by mr böge and ms berès. my colleague, valdis dombrovskis, may also comment further on the latter report in response to this debate. all reports cover a vast range of topics, each of which could be the topic of a separate debate. i will therefore not attempt to comment on the details. my president is currently preparing a white paper on the future of europe in the run-up to the rome summit in march. we therefore appreciate very much the many interesting viewpoints and proposals set out in these proposals, which provide useful information and also inspiration. the bresso-brok report rightly points to the significant, untapped potential within the existing framework, such as further reform to the institutional structure of economic and monetary union. the verhofstadt report has a farther horizon and most of its proposals would require treaty change. whilst it is refreshing to see such vision, we have to acknowledge that treaty change is not on the top of the political agenda now, in our member states in particular. the commission is convinced that it is our first duty to focus on issues, challenges, solutions and policies that unite us, because in these times of turmoil we will absolutely need unity to stay strong. moreover, there is ample room in the current treaties to improve our functioning, as the bresso-brok report points out, and as was also explained by the members this morning. with regard to the böge-berès report, it was only adopted last night in committee, but let me say this: our common goal is a more resilient and prosperous economic and monetary union. the enhanced capacity to deal with unusually large economic shocks will have to go together with enhanced convergence among member states’ economies and we need to break the vicious cycle between banking and sovereign debt. at the end of the day, all of this is about people: too many people in our union have been left behind, and so the social dimension, with a european pillar of social rights, must become more and more important in strengthening the economic and monetary union. again, let me reiterate: we appreciate many of the proposals in the report and will assess them carefully for our own reflections on the future. the european union is a historic achievement of peace, prosperity and security on the european continent. we are bound together by history, situated together by geography, united by our common interests and befriended by choice. this, then, is the basis upon which we will develop our cooperation. the outcome of the uk referendum creates a new situation for all of us – the eu and the united kingdom. we will stand united and uphold the eu’s core values of promoting peace, democracy and the well-being of its people. the bratislava roadmap sets out the main objectives for the union to deliver on now: migration and external borders, internal and external security, economic and social development and youth. let me be clear: the commission can only do so much. we can identify, analyse, recommend, warn and propose, but at the end of the day it is the responsibility of all of us, here in strasbourg and in all of the eu capitals, to deliver. this is not, and cannot be, a pick-and-choose union. that is why we welcome the joint declaration by the three institutions setting out a shared commitment to deliver on common priorities for this year. finally, it is good to look back and commemorate the achievements of those men and women who had the vision and the courage to forge the beginnings of what turned into the european union. but after looking back, it is essential that we look forward and start working on the challenges we face, using all the tools we have, mustering all the political solidarity we can, in order to deliver the results we must. thank you very much. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, we are about to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, which laid the foundations for a community europe based on the free movement of goods and services. meanwhile, europe has moved forward, expanded, has a single currency, and yet it has never been so fragile. this fragility is due to the fact that its institutions have remained in the hands of heads of state or government who try to prolong the illusion that they will still fully exercise their prerogative of sovereignty at national level, but who in reality too often give the appearance of their powerlessness. the eyes are on europe, a europe that has remained without skills and resources, a europe that is powerless to face the challenges of globalisation, terrorism, climate change, migration, tax havens, growth and employment. european citizens expect europe to provide them with security and protection. the three reports before us are a call to action to the european citizens to overcome the autism of their heads of state or government. i thank and congratulate our rapporteurs. let us dare to involve europeans in this debate and to do something about education, because only europe can enable us to take back control of our destiny.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr timmermans, you have just used the term 'refreshing' in relation to the proposals in mr verhofstadt's report. i understand the term, but i think it does not correspond to the situation we are in. europe is in danger. europe is a political dwarf. europe, the richest region in the world, is facing a crisis like it has never known: tens of millions of poor people - that has just been said - global difficulties, dictatorships on our doorstep. we are in a situation where we are finally going to move forward quietly, we are going to discuss - no, we are in the process, in a world that is moving, of taking europe off the starting line with a broken leg. this europe does not stand on its own two feet. europe is running a democratic deficit. europe has no capacity to enter into the concert of modern discussions, simply because it is not based, at this stage, on a balanced democracy. we do not have a clear legislature, we do not have an executive that is accountable to the legislature and therefore we cannot continue to function. this is what the verhofstadt report explains and this is why it is very important. we must now move towards a europe which operates on the basis of the general european interest and not on the basis of national egos. we must get out of the european council's capacity to block decisions taken at the level of this parliament. we must return to a europe with a council that is clear, a second chamber that is transparent. we must move away from the logic of the states to a genuinely european logic. that's the urgency. we must implement it in the same way as we must move away from the logic of the dictatorship of a budgetary pact and move, as the verhofstadt report proposes, towards a code of convergence which puts social and environmental questions on the same level as economic and budgetary questions. the survival of the european union is at stake.
mr president, the treaty of rome invented the political model that europe needed 60 years ago. it was a customs union. we must now invent the model we need for the 21st century. it is no longer a question of treaty, it is a question of political will. the more dangers accumulate, the more our national leaders are tempted by national withdrawal. yet all these dangers are common to us and all of them are within our reach if we face them together. two days ago we heard the president of the commission, who was tired of the work. instead of immersing itself in the european council, let it listen to its constituents. he should listen to his parliamentary majority here - unfortunately he is no longer here - and, beyond that, to the european citizens themselves, who elected us and who elected him through us. the ravages of post-truth must not blind us. the party of common sense is still the majority on our continent. let's look at the polls on the contagion of brexit before and after the british referendum. let's look at the youth vote. a little while ago, nigel farage was telling us that the european union has no future, except that his children's generation voted in the united kingdom that they have no future outside the european union. patriotism yes, nationalism no! the european union is the only political model in existence that allows patriotism without nationalism, love of one's own without hatred of others. this is the message we europeans are bringing to the rest of the world by example. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has already taken action on this. mr lamassoure, i heard you correctly, particularly on patriotism. we are patriots, but you don't want to listen to the people. today, there are three crises in the european union: a governance crisis - you spoke of your friend, mr juncker - an identity crisis, with migrants, and an economic crisis, a growth crisis. the weakest economic zone in the world is europe. therefore, mr lamassoure, i have a very simple question to ask you. do you not think that today we really need to listen to the people, that is to say, return to the sovereignty of the states, economic, budgetary, monetary sovereignty and above all the re-establishment of national borders?
the answer is 'blue card'. the people, we will listen to them in our own country, mr ferrand, since they will have the opportunity to express their opinion this year, on the occasion of the presidential and legislative elections. you spoke of a 'crisis for europe'. france is in crisis because it is badly governed. you said: "europe is the region with the lowest growth in the world". no, you can't! the euro area is growing faster than the united states. unfortunately, not france! the euro area has a trade surplus of €300 billion. unfortunately, france has a deficit of €48 billion. france is sick, and europe can be a means of saving france.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs for their enormous work. i believe that compromises have not always been easy to find and that is not unusual. but i think that we must now ask ourselves a number of questions about the way the european union actually works, because we should not be too self-centred. the adoption of reports by the european parliament will not restore confidence. i am particularly concerned about the violations of the rules that already exist. i am thinking, for example, of what has happened on ceta, which we will be voting on tomorrow. there is no more exclusive power in the treaty than that of allowing the commission to negotiate trade agreements, and we see how these provisions are dealt with. moreover, on the budget, it is clear that we cannot go forward - and i thank mr mureşan for saying so earlier - with new commitments and budgetary sharing without strict compliance with the rules. but in this whole affair, some have tried to undermine european rules. once again, it is good that parliament has a position. i think we can defend her. we have an ambition, but there is a huge amount of work to be done to restore confidence, work in which the commission, commissioner, vice-president, has a lot to do, as do the member states. i think that parliament is sometimes a little self-centred.
mr president, the future of the european union depends on its reform and deepening, and in this future to be built, the future of the euro area is one of the most urgent and sensitive issues. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their determination to produce this report, the fruit of long and difficult debates. it has the merit of validating the need to create a specific budget for the euro area and its own governance, even if this is, of course, only a first step. there will undoubtedly be other heated debates, particularly on the convergence code, in which the two sides do not put the same content. similarly, its implementation raises the difficult question of its financing, and it is an opportunity to learn from experience and not fall back into the trap of national egoism and punitive logic. deepening economic and monetary union means no longer looking at the situation of one state in opposition to the others, as if there were no link between them, but looking at the euro area in an aggregate way. experience shows that the financing by the member states is accompanied by budgetary paralysis. whether it is the union budget beyond the ceilings or the european stability mechanism (esm), we remain within the logic of state funding. that is why we must, in this budget as in the union's budget, tackle the urgent question of own resources and build on the monti report to achieve our goals. a deepened euro area is also a democratic and transparent governance that emerges from the conciliations. this requires the re-appropriation of popular sovereignty, not only by strengthening the power of the european parliament but also by integrating national parliaments into the decision-making process. clemenceau said, "war is too serious a thing to be left to the military". i paraphrase it as: 'the euro is too serious a matter to be left to diplomats'.
mr president, i listened to most of the speakers and most of us are deeply convinced of the need for a stronger european union. yet even the most european of us spend our time talking about all the things that divide us, all the things that separate us, all the things that are against us. but it was not because we were united that our founding fathers created europe, it was precisely because we were divided that they created it. the choice of strasbourg as the capital of european democracy is a prime example. to want to touch this symbol is to understand nothing of what we are. as members of parliament, our role, our objective, our duty is to propose more union, not out of a pavlovian reflex, but because it is the only solution to avoid a return to the situation before the fall of the wall, to avoid a return to the centuries-long period during which we resolved our conflicts by sending whole generations of our children to kill each other. yes, we still have divisions, but do not forget that the people are watching us, that we are so obsessed with demagogues of all kinds that we forget to speak to the vast majority of the european people. the people demonstrating in the streets of poland are waving european flags. the people on the streets in romania are demanding more of europe. the candidate who attracts the most people to his rallies in france is the only one to wave european flags. so yes, these three reports are a way of talking back to our citizens, who are asking for more from europe, so that we can live up to the expectations of the - unfortunately sometimes silent - majority of our fellow citizens. (the speaker refuses to answer the question by mr woolfe)
i'm the reporter. mr president, mr vice-president, like mr verhofstadt, i am a little disappointed that you have not been able to read the bögeberès report. it's been on the table for a very long time now and was voted on last night, but in a version that hasn't moved much for a long time. we know, as reimer böge knows, that this budgetary capacity for the euro area is an indispensable tool. i am addressing you in particular because, by voting for this report and the other two, we are sending the message to the european commission that in the white paper you are about to publish this issue must be a central issue. when times are tough, when brexit is here, when some want to wake up grexit, the question is what is the investment of the commission and the european parliament to complete the euro area, so that it is that solid foundation that we have wanted since the beginning, because finally completed by the creation of a budget of the euro area then the white paper will be useful. but if you listen only to the member states and draw up a kind of long list to please everyone, to frighten no one, to divide no one by the fact that some are in the euro zone or not, you will undermine the basis on which we are sitting. i trust president juncker and hope that you will go in that direction so that this question of a euro area budget, to which all 27 member states of the european union are destined to belong, will finally be a tool in place, because we need it to ensure the convergence of the economies of the area, our ability to cushion asymmetric and symmetric shocks, while taking into account a social pillar.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, thank you for being with us. i thought, "another debate on greece". it is a little sad that this country, which is an important partner, a country we all love, is once again at the centre of a discussion in which we end up getting a little lost, even when we are minding our own business. i would therefore like to make a few remarks. the first is that deep down we feel that we are still in crisis management mode after years and that we are not in the gradual implementation of changes that require time. we still have the impression that - and this was also said in part by mr bullmann - the criticisms and questions that give the impression that we are not really able to resolve the situation in greece are evident. personally, i think that your rather calm, factual presentation should encourage us all to look at the figures, to look at what may still be wrong, but also to keep in mind what could have improved, without psychodrama, without constantly mentioning, for example, the exit of a country from the euro area which, for the moment and until further notice, is not provided for in the treaties. secondly, the imf is one of the actors in this psychodrama. we wanted the imf to come and perhaps at the height of the crisis - that's why, i think, we always have to distinguish between crisis management and the rest - its technical expertise and what it embodied were justified. but should we not ask ourselves whether it is right that the imf should remain in the euro area forever? if so, perhaps we should accept all the consequences, if not, what can we do? third, i wanted to tell you that it has an impact on public opinion. it is very sad that even as the numbers are starting to improve, that growth is not negligible and that a number of indicators are turning green across the euro area, that we still find ourselves with a cloud over our heads, which is very damaging psychologically and politically. commissioner, i hope that you, together with the other partners - the central bank and the imf - will manage things in a somewhat calmer way, and that you will hold the greek government accountable, but also the entire eurogroup accountable. we cannot continue to rely on a crisis management model for years after the crisis has started.
mr president, mr vice-president, i believe it is time for the commission to encourage the other two institutions to complete the second evaluation of the greek programme. in line with the economic forecasts published by the institution to which you belong yesterday, the figures for greece are better than what one might think of as bad information about that country. the country is still forecast to grow by 2.7% in 2017 and 3.1% in 2018 thanks to a threefold increase in the level of investment, as well as a primary surplus of 3.7% in 2018, compared to the 3.5% it was asked to have. at a certain point, we want to ask: "but, mr. executioner, until when?" other i believe it is the responsibility of the european commission to put an end to this game in which a number of member states want to involve it. a number of member states are clearly using greece to carry on other debates, returning endlessly to the question of grexit, for example. but the question is elsewhere: if there are people in berlin or elsewhere who want to take greece out of the euro zone, let them say so frankly, let there be a frank debate about it. but this kind of syringe that we are constantly trying to put greece under, while your own figures give reason to those who ask you to conclude this assessment and who want the demands for greek debt relief, which the imf considers unsustainable, to be finally dealt with realistically, seems to me to be the only way forward for the institution to which you belong. (the speaker refuses to answer a question by mr van dalen)
mr president, you are still talking about a rescue plan, but i see it as a new plan for dismantling the system. in greece, to satisfy the creditors, privatization is being forced. take the port of piraeus, the historic port of athens, as an example. mr tsipras finally agreed last april to the sale of piraeus to the chinese company cosco, which had already been awarded the concession for two container terminals. in other words, piraeus is becoming one of the preferred entry points for 'made in china' products, which have been flooding the european market for years and ruining our industries. no, the greeks do not have to be punished for the wrongs committed by their successive governments, especially since the so-called austerity cure that the greeks are undergoing affects the other peoples of europe. mr tsipras is definitely not a very good first name. alexis comes from the verb alexeïn, which means to defend, guard, protect. what our present governments lack is the courage and political will to protect their people. in france, marine le pen, as in many other european nations, embodies this will: not to bow to the dictates of global finance allied to the bureaucrats in brussels.
mr president, let me first of all deplore the absence of the president of the eurogroup for this crucial debate, but also welcome the fact that growth is back in greece. we should all be happy about this and support and encourage the greeks, who have been so badly hit by the financial markets. yet, in a neoliberal fanaticism that i sometimes suspect is tinged with stereotypes from another time, some continue to deny the obvious: the debt must be restructured. instead, they keep calling for more blood to weaken a patient who has already endured the worst of suffering and is struggling to recover. if there are people who want to expel greece from the euro area or try to bring down its government, they are the ones who are putting themselves outside our community and destroying what we are trying to build together. the greek government is on track to achieve its primary surplus target. it's the result of a colossal effort. those who would call for an ever-increasing surplus are robbing greece of any prospects. when one party fulfils its part of the contract, it expects the other party to do the same. on monday, finance ministers must make a significant gesture and reach a favourable agreement, including allowing greece to finally access the ecb's debt purchase programme. greece cannot wait for the next elections in some member states and the euro zone cannot wait either. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the commission has already taken action on this. yes, i wanted to go your way. do you know, madam, that greece's gdp was €360 billion in 2008 and €200 billion today? i will have the opportunity to say so. do you also know that greece's financial surplus already existed in 2010, excluding interest on debt? so there is really a failure of this current policy.
where’s the question? i don’t know what is the question.
the question is: how can we get out of this absolutely harmful policy? i'll give you an answer regarding the catch-the-eye.
the answer is 'blue card'. sir, i am not sure that there is a real issue in your speech but what i do know is that we have asked for a lot of effort, that effort has been made, that greece has achieved results and that now it is about, as i said, in particular, addressing the debt issue and giving access to the ecb's debt purchase programme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am seen as a eurosceptic, but i am also a financial technician. so i want to remind you of a few figures. since the euro was introduced, we have created €1.6 trillion from nothing. it would have been enough to take 10% of these euros, and we could have reduced greece's debt by 50%. if we had only invested €50 billion - that is nothing compared to the €1.6 trillion we have created - we could have made a recovery plan in greece focused on energy savings and new energy, on the strong exporting sectors. we didn't. the capacity of the central bank today is still 2 trillion less than that of the fed, 4 trillion less than china, to be at the same level of money creation as china or the united states. why such nonsense? it's because you're in ideology, and it's ideology that will get you killed.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, not all elected representatives are equal, some are entitled to an extra minute. i would ask you to ensure that my colleagues are silenced and that the regulation is actually applied. ladies and gentlemen, the ukrainian government is in the throes of a diplomatic collapse. he had relied on the clinton administration with some special envoys and offices, and then there's the trump administration, which doesn't want to change policy, but simply wants a more just and realistic policy towards russia. because we are in ideology and lies. and the point is not to repeat a lie, because it will not become the truth. we are facing an economic collapse: 40% less gdp since 2013. do you know that imports and exports have been split in half? the commission has also been active in the field of the environment. we're in the middle of political collapse, corruption scandals. despite the lies that they have made efforts, no government has ever been so corrupt! today, these corruption scandals have led them to make a new alliance, again with the neo-nazi parties. i take it you support these alliances with the neo-nazi parties? we are facing a situation so grave that this government can only get out of it by war, and it has wanted to. the ukrainian deputy minister of defence, mr pavlovsky, said: "our troops are attacking avdiivka". this is the reality. this parliament is therefore continuing to dishonor itself by its unconditional support for a corrupt, mafia-like government backed by neo-nazis. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. madam, with this kind of investigation, we'd be surprised because i could send you the same. marine le pen was condemned for her associates, today we find out that mr schulz did much worse for embezzlement, and this same parliament, when mr farage asked that there be no discrimination and that there be investigations on everyone, refuses them, and you were one of them. so please be quiet! you do not want to be the subject of an investigation like i was... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, mr minister, when the discussion turns too much to passion, it is sometimes good to have the lucidity and the courage to stick to the rules of law and, in the end, this can be a solution. so let me just read a little bit from the official journal of the european union - it is november 12, 2015: as under international law the golan heights and the west bank (including east jerusalem) are not part of israeli territory, the indication 'produced in israel' is considered to be false and likely to mislead as defined by the legislation. you know that, in addition to the words we regularly use, the european parliament and the commission have asked for a ban on the importation of products which do not bear the indication of the origin of goods from the territories occupied since june 1967. minister, i will not suggest that you share this bottle with me, because you would be guilty of a misdemeanor. this is a product bought in france and belgium, imported freely, and produced in katzrin, israel. katzrin is located on the golan heights, it is occupied territory: this product cannot be labelled 'produced in israel'. when will you enforce the law?
madam president, for years the state of israel has been violating international law by occupying and colonizing the palestinian territories. the adoption of a resolution by the un security council last december is very clear: settlements in the west bank are illegal under international law. mr netanyahu no doubt thought that the new us president would give him unconditional support for his expansionist policy, but donald trump has just declared that the colonies are an obstacle to peace. my colleague mr aliot said the same thing a few weeks ago: 'colonies are not useful in the search for peace'. the only viable solution is two sovereign states with secure and recognized borders. israel has a right to security and the palestinian people have a right to sovereignty. in addition, recognition of a state would give the palestinians the means to fight terrorism. our responsibility is not to add fuel to the fire by working to ensure that this common sense un resolution is respected.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reports follow one another and are similar. the same litany, "albania, kosovo, turkey" would have a european vocation. enlargement would be beneficial by definition. so we have to expand, we have to expand and we have to deal with reality, postponed. the reality is this: albania is a mafia state; corruption and trafficking are rampant; the cosmetic reforms designed to facilitate membership are only fooling you; the conflicts in the balkans are not over, as the actions of bosnia and kosovo against serbia have shown us. finally, you risk putting us in the hands of this albanian mafia - the worst - which controls more than half of the drug trade, sex trade, organ trafficking and immigration in europe. it is a betrayal of european civilization, a betrayal which forces us, france and soon other countries, to leave your european institutions.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as you note in your recitals, the sustainability of the reconciliation process in bosnia-herzegovina remains a challenge. i went there last january and i saw that the dayton agreements were not perfect, but they did put an end to the interethnic conflict in bosnia-herzegovina. by providing for the partition of the country into two autonomous entities, the agreements ensure that the particular identities of the local populations are respected. i note from your report that unfortunately the european perspective undermines this national reconciliation. in your mouth, unity becomes uniformity, undermining the specificities of communities to satisfy your obsession with an infinitely enlarged eu. you have a funny vision of democracy when you force the different stakeholders to have the same view of the integration process. it is not by pointing the finger at the bosnian serb republic, which is only trying to defend its vital interests, that you will maintain peace between the different entities.
mr preda, your report is naive and contributes to the suicide of european civilization. the original mistake was tito's creation of a muslim entity in 1974. there should never have been a muslim nationality, which is a real problem today. this report is only a report against republika srpska. you are clearly calling into question the dayton agreements, which have the merit of at least creating two entities. the serbs in bosnia are the ones who are most attacked today. they are trying to defend their identity and their culture, they are trying to defend their politics and today the croat and muslim component is a component that wants to go towards membership of the european union in order to make the serbs give in. today, it's time to open your eyes. the serbian republic of bosnia is a republic which has the merit of being able to defend its identity, and this must also be emphasized here. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr. preda, go to bucharest and protest against corruption! i think they are waiting for you, because i think the political class in romania has no lessons to teach me. mrs šuica, to answer you very clearly, today there is the problem of radical islamism in bosnia. the muslim entity developed radical islamism. today, radical islamism, known as white jihadism in bosnia, is a direct threat to the security of the european union.
madam president, history is particularly heavy and painful in the balkans, and the european union can, in my view, and must play a vital role in helping reconciliation. i am, of course, pleased that the formal application for membership has been submitted and that the commission has looked favourably on it. i thank mr preda for his report, which is very comprehensive and highlights the strengths and weaknesses of the application for membership. indeed, the desire to join the european union must be accompanied by efforts to organise administratively and politically. the rule of law is obviously the first step, the rule of law which must make it possible to combat crime, corruption and organised crime. but of course, as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, bosnia-herzegovina must also implement the socioeconomic reforms which will enable young people, in particular, to begin to hope again in their country. the european union can and must accompany all these reforms, but it cannot do so without the full support of all the people, who must be involved in the process.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i call on parliament today to include three particularly important areas in its reflection. first, the question of government expenditure, generated by policies related to food aid, european defence and international cooperation, for example, should be able to be taken out of the convergence criteria to allow for new investment. secondly, the economic policies of the european union, and in particular of the euro area, cannot be limited to strict compliance with criteria which are now obsolete and ineffective. the reduction of the public deficit must be achieved by increasing tax revenues, specifically by fighting tax evasion and by increasing the taxation of financial transactions. thirdly, today is the time for the european union to consider the pooling of sovereign debts exceeding the 60% set by the convergence criteria. let us imagine, for example, a common financial fund for the 19 countries of the euro area, which would then make it possible to renegotiate, at least partially, their common debts. jean monnet said in his memoirs: 'when men find themselves in a new situation, they adapt and change. but as long as they hope that things can stay the way they are or be compromised, they are not willing to listen to new ideas. let's hear what this great man has to say.
mr president, the annual growth review is taking place in a context that no one can ignore. this context is marked, firstly, by the victory of donald trump in the united states, which raises serious uncertainties about the european economy through the issue of transatlantic relations, and raises fears of the threat of a decline in activity in europe linked to a return of protectionism in the united states, a risk of currency war, which could materialize, or an excessive rise in interest rates. the review also comes at a time when the european union must commit itself to negotiating with one of its members, the united kingdom, an exit with possible consequences for its own economy, the full extent of which is not yet fully appreciated. it also takes place in a context where many of our member states are facing a rise in populism, and we, who are convinced that a solution must come from europe, must adapt our growth strategy to this reality. for this we need a response that is up to the task. it must be clear, strong and articulated around a real investment strategy, in order to avoid a century-long stagnation and allow the development of a new economy that is resource-efficient, respectful of both people and the environment; in short, to enable the european union to make a success of its ecological transition. in this respect, it is necessary, first, to strengthen sustainable infrastructures, including their social component. secondly, we must work on greening the capital markets union - you hardly ever talk about this, mr vice-president. we must take the lead or we will not advance. finally, we must start thinking seriously about the introduction of a carbon tax which will enable us to achieve our objectives, as we set them at cop21. finally, the commission must continue the courageous work it has usefully undertaken to define an aggregated budgetary position which allows everyone to be a winner in a common economic strategy.
mr president, as we do every year, today we are taking stock of the coordination of our economic policies and these are beginning to bear fruit. i would like to mention the 8 million jobs created since 2013 in the european union and a rate of unemployment that is decreasing, albeit slowly, but is nevertheless decreasing. unfortunately, the recovery is very uneven across sectors, member states and regions, and i regret that my country, france, is lagging behind in this respect. in this growth review, we list ways of improving our competitiveness. i would like to emphasise two aspects: the 'skills' aspect and the 'environment' aspect which is favourable to job creation. on the subject of skills, i would first like to say that to promote employment, training adapted to the needs of enterprises is necessary. how can we understand that some small and medium-sized enterprises are ready to hire but cannot find the skills to meet their offers? therefore, member states really need to reform their education systems and also put emphasis on digital skills. the recognition of formal and informal skills also needs to be improved. finally, on the business side, i believe that there is an urgent need to create a stable and simple regulatory environment for our smes, which are the main job creators.
in writing. the european semester (es) process began with the annual growth survey (ags), which is an opportunity for the commission to welcome the results of its austerity policy, while unemployment figures, especially among young people, remain alarming. despite the stated intention to 'put the social and economic pillars of the eu on an equal footing', the governance objective remains the same, namely to impose structural reforms, by accompanying the conversion to ultra-liberalism of all national institutions. however, as we know, growth remains sluggish and the european area, far from being an area of freedom, is the organiser of social dumping and migration chaos. worse still: no priority of social action is reserved for european citizens! all european instruments, starting with the european social fund (esf) and the youth guarantee, are used to finance the integration of migrants into the member states' labour markets. the only virtue of the se is that it strengthens european oversight of the economic and social policies of the member states, the famous 'social pillar' being just a new communication tool of the commission to deflect criticism!
on behalf of the enf group. mr vice-president, fortunately for europeans, the banking union has never been put to real use. only cyprus, in 2013, served as a test laboratory for the troika to test the bail-in, this iniquitous technique of bailing out banks by its own customers, supposedly to protect taxpayers. since then, the european union has moved forcefully and urgently to preempt the banking sovereignty of the euro area member states and citizens, and to entrust supervision to the ecb. the banking union has been in force since 1 january 2016 and legally authorises european institutions to freeze customers' bank accounts in the event of a banking crisis. this mru, the single resolution mechanism of the european union, constitutes an intolerable financial repression against citizens. this method is a democratic scandal, a challenge to property rights and legalized theft, denounced by the patriots of the national front, which confirms our political analysis on the consequences of the 2008 crisis and the harmfulness of the euro. i accuse the european union and the ecb of having set up in 2016 a regime of financial totalitarianism to save the banks and the euro at any cost. why would you do that? because in reality the european banking system is in a state of emergency. this is the first finding of the hübner report. the ecb and the imf are also concerned about the €1 trillion of bad loans that are eating away at banks' balance sheets. and they are right, as the plight of deutsche bank in germany and the italian banking crisis show. all of this proves that the reassuring stress tests of 2014 were, in fact, completely rigged. like the front national, the european banking authority (eba) is issuing a new warning about the solvency of european banks. for the eba, the toxic assets of failing banks are like dust: they are hidden in bad banks, which will also eventually go bankrupt and which will, in the end, be bailed out again by european taxpayers. the solution you reject, namely the separation and splitting of the banks, is independence from the private banks, and it requires political courage. if there is one characteristic of the european union, it is its unwavering loyalty to private lobbies and its disinterest in people.
mr president, mr vice-president, no one will be surprised to tell you that the socialist group is strongly advocating the completion of the banking union so that the third pillar is finally in place and the banking union is provided with the fiscal backstop (budgetary support mechanism) which it still lacks. we also do not want your project of a capital markets union to replace the completion of the banking union or even to be a tool for lowering the quality of regulation. i do not know whether intransigence is always a good adviser, but i note that those who call for the strictest application of the rules of the stability pact are not always the most ardent supporters of an unblocking of the negotiations on the edis package. if they want to restore the confidence of private investors, which seems to be the alpha and omega of their economic doctrine, they will have to step up the pace. i would like to mention three things which i think are important in connection with the report by danuta hübner. first of all, on the matter of non-performing loans, it seems to me that the proposal just made by the president of the eba to create a 'bad bank' should be carefully considered. secondly, let us look at what is happening in the united states to prevent the re-establishment of a parallel banking system in which our european banks would transfer their risks. finally, i believe that we expect you to adjust the responsibilities of the various mechanisms in the light of experience. we look forward to these proposals.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have the good canadians with whom we are about to have the most beautiful agreement that europe has ever signed. better yet, in a great historical coincidence, we are signing this agreement while a xenophobic, racist and sexist leader is running the united states. i would remind you, mr weber, that mr trump is a conservative elected by the republicans, so he is part of your political family on an international scale. on the other side would be the employees and their unions, the consumers and their organisations, civil society and its millions of people who have signed petitions. there would be smes and there would be those parliamentarians who are unfit for the happiness you offer them, who are withdrawn into themselves, who are retreating into the old world and the old space. but have you forgotten who negotiated this agreement? mr harper, a climate-sceptic, is now advising multinationals; mr barroso, former president of the european commission, now advises goldman sachs; mr de gucht, formerly trade commissioner, now advises multinationals. the culmination of this process of deregulation and privatization of the norm is precisely the government of mr. trump, where it is not the commissioners and former prime ministers who go to the multinationals, but the multinationals who are in the trump government. we are in too precious and too rare a moment in our history, not to look at what justifies and explains the brexit, what explains the trumps... it's the globalization that you're building that partly explains this. you are fueling the fire that feeds the extreme right to say how globalization, the other, the different, is always wrong. it is absolutely essential, madam commissioner, to build up a globalisation of regulation if we do not want europe to continue to fall apart. if we do not want brexit, if we do not want more trump, more far right, we must make europe the pillar of the public regulation of globalisation. this means human rights, social rights and the environment above trade and investment rights. tafta and ceta are the exact opposite. you tell us that you are protecting jobs: you yourself, in the hearing before the committee on international trade and the committee on employment and social affairs, said 'we do not know whether this will create jobs'. the only study that exists is on less than 100 000 jobs in europe. you claim to be a climate activist with mr. trudeau. two days ago, mr trudeau was with donald trump to reopen the keystone xl pipeline project, which barack obama had cancelled because he considered it "climate killer". it is your commission, madam, which refuses to legislate and regulate endocrine disruptors to protect health. so yes, we want a partnership with the canadians, with the americans, with all the others, but on climate, on social rights, on the fight against tax havens, on banking supervision, and all that, there is nothing in these agreements! let us defend democracy, let us defend democratic sovereignty, let us defend european legal sovereignty, let us defend a great european project to counter a globalisation of deregulation, a globalisation which concentrates power in the hands of a few multinationals and a few multi-billionaires. let's make europe something different, otherwise it will fall apart, and that is what you are contributing to today.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after seven years of negotiations, this treaty between the european union and canada, the twin brother of the transatlantic treaty, is going to be rejected or accepted by this parliament. the ceta treaty has been carefully hidden from all citizens. it has hardly ever been discussed in the mainstream media debating bodies because none of you are willing or able to defend it publicly. i'm not sure. you like to vote in the dark, but you hate to debate in the light! worse still, the socialist party members, who are often very lenient on ceta in this parliament, are pretending to oppose it in some of the confidential media. the french umps all voted for ceta in committee but say they are against it when asked. when the people hear all these lies, they'll never trust you again. that is why this treaty is a treaty of the devil to the peoples of europe. it removes almost all customs duties on goods traded between the european union and canada and will once again destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe, tens of thousands in france. agriculture and livestock, already battered by all the free trade agreements you have already signed, will continue their descent into hell. our farmers, competing with canadian farmers who are 35% cheaper, are in danger of closing the curtain en masse. i ask you solemnly, are you not ashamed to destroy those who feed you? to level the playing field for multinationals, you are selling our right to regulate and aligning standards with those of canada, thus denying our citizens the protection they expect from their political representatives. unfortunately for them, you are more interested in the profits of multinationals than in the protection of citizens and the environment. the various committees you set up, like these obscure regulatory cooperation mechanisms, are supranational in nature, are not controlled by anyone, so much so that leading french jurists are questioning their constitutionality. to top it all off, you're creating a private justice system of exceptional quality to allow multinational corporations to attack states so that no more regulations will be unpleasant to these new masters of modern times. those who will be judging in this court are not judges, neutral public officials, they will most often be lawyers in international law cases, in conflict of interest because they have received fees from these same multinationals or their consorts. finally, public services so important to the middle and lower classes will have to operate in a purely market logic, with the exception of a few royal services. this is the disastrous picture of ceta. if this treaty is voted on in a few hours' time, it will demonstrate once again to all europeans your inability to defend them and the crucial importance for each people of regaining its sovereignty, its ability to decide freely on its future. the only reassuring thing is that the french people will have a chance to reverse this treaty and all the other vile treaties, with the presidential election in may 2017, as it is true that it is up to the nations to negotiate their trade policy and not to an unelected structure that represents only its own interests and not those of the people.
madam president, madam commissioner, there is a lot of derision about the alternative facts that the trump administration uses to convey its truth. they were invented long ago by ngos, collectives and extremists here in ceta. you may present the facts of the agreement with clear statements, but unfortunately there is no room for argument. the french delegation of the epp, on the other hand, has looked in every detail for guarantees that this agreement, which is good, will also be properly implemented, because that is the main thing. but there is a concern that the cattle sector is in crisis and ceta should not exacerbate it. what guarantees do you provide on the safeguard clauses? the french right will be extremely vigilant about the commission's reactivity in the event of price distortions or falls. as such, canada has provided a $350 million aid programme to offset the negative effects of ceta on its dairy sector. i would therefore like to ask, madam commissioner, on behalf of my delegation, that such financial arrangements be made available for the european beef and veal sector.
madam president, those of us who vote for this treaty will have a heavy responsibility in terms of employment, the environment, social progress, agriculture and food. they will help to put the peoples in a real straitjacket. how can we accept the provisional application of such a harmful agreement without the approval of the national parliaments? how can we accept a so-called regulatory cooperation mechanism, which will adapt national and european legislation a priori, that is, even before it is drawn up by parliaments? and to lock it all up, arbitration tribunals will condemn states and peoples if they do not obey the orders of the multinationals. our parliament would grow up to say 'no' to the constitutionalisation of business law against human rights, 'no' to this institutional coup d'état in the service of the industrial and financial powers!
madam president, we must listen to the concerns of the people, but we must not follow all the anxieties when we are determining policy. i would like to say that mrs malmström and the commission are acting within the framework of powers which have been democratically conferred on them in the treaties. the national parliaments have agreed that trade competence should be exercised exclusively at european level. there was no round-up, there were debates in all our countries when we took this decision. i trust not only the commissioner but also the commission to also carry out all the safeguarding duties that will be necessary in the future. canada, which i would like to congratulate, is a democratic country with rules. it is one of our allies and we must draw the attention of the french to this. it is also a country which is partly french-speaking and towards which we must show a certain solidarity. france is a country with great difficulties in foreign trade. we have a deficit of €48 billion for 2016, so the opportunities with a safe country, legally close to us, are always good to take under the right conditions. we are counting on you to enforce them, commissioner.
madam president, this agreement is bad for france and bad for europe. it is an aggravating contribution to the ecological and social crisis of human civilization, because it does not contain the slightest mention of the paris climate treaty, it encourages the import of the world's dirtiest fossil fuels, it encourages the most brutal, cruel and unfair agriculture, and it establishes special courts that allow large companies to fight against the laws of the people, but at the same time it accepts the social dumping of a country that has not signed the international labour organization's convention on negotiations. this text could never have been adopted or even negotiated if my country had opposed it, and my country's government bears a special responsibility at this moment. as in this house, this agreement would not have been accepted if the socialist group had not given its support. it is a very bad blow to europe and to my country that is about to be dealt. future generations will remember this - i want to believe it - at least in the 2017 french presidential election.
madam president, ceta is an interesting and balanced agreement. it represents many opportunities for our businesses. we have heard the concerns of the citizens and that is why we will be monitoring very closely the implementation of the agreement if it is ratified. the commission will have to respect its commitments and declarations. safeguard clauses should be triggered immediately in the event of a sector in difficulty and, in this respect, particular attention should be paid to the agricultural sector. the concerns expressed, madam commissioner, reflect a growing distrust of the union's trade policy and must be answered. we must develop maximum transparency around the negotiations. at a time when donald trump has chosen protectionism in the united states, we must strengthen our ties with partners who, like canada, share our values. finally, i regret that mrs le pen refers to the vote in committee of the republican members of the house because she seems to forget that she was absent that day and did not vote.
madam president, the further we go in this debate on ceta, the more i feel that we are really talking about an old world agreement, because, unlike many colleagues, i believe that ceta is not a model for the future at all. first, it ignores all the great successes of multilateral diplomacy in recent years: the cop 21 on climate, the g20 agreement on tax evasion, it does not mention them. above all, ceta offers only outdated responses to today's major challenges - climate change, growing inequalities, democratic distrust. more and more liberalization, less and less public services, more and more competition, more and more power for multinationals... i believe that this is not the way to go and i would like to echo the words of a colleague who said just now: 'europe deserves better.'ladies and gentlemen, some people are telling us today that it is either donald trump and marine le pen on one side or ceta on the other. i think europe deserves better, it can do better and fortunately we have great support, as demonstrated by the mobilisation of civil society and the resistance of some governments. so we can go ahead and imagine another trade policy.
in writing. the eu-canada free trade agreement, known as ceta, will end the transformation of our deindustrialized regions into commercial graveyards. when canadian prime minister justin trudeau came to address meps, he welcomed the fact that european consumers will now be able to buy the 'beautiful canadian mukluks' winter boots at a low price, as customs tariffs between the eu and canada have been removed. unlike mr trudeau, europeans are not just consumers ready to run the canadian trading machine. they are artisans, traders and workers who, like bata and andré, have supported thousands of families for almost a century and exported french know-how all over the world. just as the bata factory in hellocourt, nicknamed bataville, was brought to its knees by unfair asian competition, the vivarte group's andre brand is now suffering the death of wild free trade. with the new ceta, our french small and mediumsized enterprises will now be condemned to fight against canadian multinationals without any further benefit from customs protection. mr trudeau, you forget that when jobs disappear, so do consumers.
in writing. the economic agreement with canada commits us socially. it takes into account our agricultural models, public procurement, legal systems and european health and environmental standards. however, there are still too many uncertainties in the legal, economic and environmental fields. that is why i call for a vote against this agreement. it's not about voting against canada. just because canada is a democracy does not mean that this agreement is necessarily a good one and that we should stop thinking and back off from a text that will have a lasting impact on eu trade policy. the commission itself admits that the results will be virtually non-existent in economic terms. the legal form of the arbitration mechanism is not yet known. in environmental terms, the precautionary principle is likely to be undermined by the process of 'recognition of equivalence'. i also believe that the negotiation process has not created the conditions for a genuine and transparent debate. the public debate will now be able to continue in each member state in preparation for the vote of the national parliaments.
mr president, i voted against the eu-canada agreement, which everyone knows as ceta. contrary to what the commission repeats like a mantra, this is not a good agreement. it is dangerous to our agriculture and to the preservation of the public interest. multinationals will be able to challenge social or environmental laws which they consider potentially harmful to their interests - whatever the name of the court may be in this respect. he's also a danger to public services. it is only rebalancing an aberrant situation of reciprocity or rather lack of reciprocity, so far, in access to public procurement. it is undemocratic because of the opacity of its negotiation and the quasi-legislative role illegitimately given to the joint committee, but also because most of this agreement, albeit a mixed agreement, will enter into force in a few weeks without waiting for the opinion of the national parliaments necessary for its ratification. on this and many other issues, the gap between the self-proclaimed elites and the people continues to widen.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ahmed, whose case my colleague has just mentioned, has therefore been prosecuted on alleged terrorist grounds. why? because he was simply trying to ease the tension between police and migrants at the border by telling everyone to back off with a megaphone. has he sought to unduly coerce the hungarian government? is that terrorism? in france, a netizen who had the bad taste to name his wi-fi connection "daesh 21" was sentenced to three months in prison for supporting terrorism. is this really the apology of terrorism? let's not be fooled. anti-terrorism laws are regularly abused or used for other purposes, in violation of our rights and freedoms. there are already too many examples. we do not want to see the list extended any further. the criminal harmonisation of anti-terrorist laws at european level is obviously a laudable and necessary objective, but the harmonisation must be precise in order to limit interpretations that may infringe our rights and freedoms. unfortunately, this directive contains too many concepts with vague outlines. in the current climate, europe cannot afford to leave loopholes which governments can so easily abuse. this directive criminalizes indirect provocation of terrorism when no one knows what this vague notion covers and the risks to freedom of expression and information are real. the definition of 'terrorist offence' is also problematic as it includes, for example, acts likely to cause major economic loss. governments will have no qualms, we know, about using this broad definition to silence acts of civil and environmental disobedience that go against their interests. finally, the added value of criminalising travel has not been demonstrated. an individual suspected of terrorism can already be arrested on that suspicion. the risk of this provision being misused and abused in a discriminatory way is real. instead of multiplying the grounds for criminal charges with vague and dangerous outlines, we must concentrate on the essentials: the automatic and mandatory exchange of information and greater cooperation between member states. all the recent attacks have revealed gaping holes in this area. what is the point of taking measures which have real added value in the fight against terrorism? the hypocrisy of the member states in the fight against terrorism is blatant.
mr president, islamist terrorism is a barbarity that must be fought without weakness. i therefore support the hohlmeier report, which is trying to combat it, despite all its shortcomings, as mrs winberg has just pointed out. i do, however, have two regrets. the first is that islamist terrorism has taken advantage of the porosity of the external borders of the european union, i.e. the terrible failure of the schengen system. the french are well placed to know this, because the terrorists of the bataclan almost all came from abroad. the report refuses to acknowledge this evidence. the second regret is that the report never uses the word 'islamist'. he is talking about terrorism in general, when it is islamist terrorism that is being discussed. i condemn this cowardice because, as albert camus said, 'to call things by the wrong name is to add to the misery of the world'.
mr president, the attacks we have seen in recent years have been horrifying, but they have also reaffirmed the firmness of our condemnation. with this new directive we are once again demonstrating our determination to fight terrorism. the text defines the acts to be criminalised, improves the protection of victims and strengthens the exchange of information on criminal investigations. these three axes are fundamental and, i hope, shared. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) of the european parliament is actively involved in the fight against terrorism. its action includes strengthening the protection of our external borders, harmonising criminalisation between member states, combating the financing of terrorism and organised crime, and cooperation between states and with european agencies. the european parliament provides this work with a view to ensuring a balance between security and the protection of fundamental freedoms. i would like to stress the reality of this work today because i was surprised to learn that we would need a new committee specifically to fight terrorism. the objectives of the report are still vague: it is intended to highlight the shortcomings of the national authorities whose countries were affected by the attacks. i'll take that. but what are we trying to do? what are we trying to prove? pointing fingers at the culprits? to assess whether europe, schengen or the neighbour is to blame? is it to do the same investigative work as the national members of parliament in france, belgium or even germany? is it a matter of taking a different position from that of libe, which is a competent and experienced parliamentary committee, or is it a matter of allowing the exploitation of attacks for political purposes to flourish in this election year in several european states? as you will have understood, this hypothesis of a special commission or a commission of inquiry seems to be a polemic in a field that deserves above all to be avoided.
mr president, i am glad that tomorrow, after the vote, we will have a consolidated arsenal to fight together and in the most harmonized way possible against terrorism. through this text, the member states will finally adapt their national legislation on terrorist offences, since in this area, as everyone has said more or less positively, there are no borders, whereas there are barriers between the different criminal law codes of the member states. this text is a real step forward, taking into account the new forms of terrorism, the new modes of operation, the phenomenon of foreign fighters, terrorist travel, propaganda, provocation, recruitment on the internet, as well as the families of the victims. this is a step forward which will enable all judicial authorities to tackle this scourge more effectively and bring the perpetrators to justice. i also welcome the strengthening of the mechanism for exchanging information between judicial authorities, although i regret, in conclusion, that member states did not sufficiently support our proposal for mandatory exchange between authorities. when will the states realise that it is not by safeguarding this kind of data that we will be able to meet the colossal global challenges we face together tomorrow?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are tearing down the dikes and wondering why there are floods. how can we be surprised by the increase in terrorist acts when you are constantly encouraging the free movement of goods and people, and therefore of arms and terrorists? in fact, you keep illustrating the famous chinese proverb: "when the wise man points to the moon, the fool looks at the finger". not only do you remain focused on the consequences, but you are also taking a hard line against those who, like us, point to the real causes of terrorism in europe. you do not see them because you do not want to see them, otherwise you would have to admit the terrible mistakes that your friends, your predecessors and yourself have made in opening the floodgates of immigration. the right-thinking people are still denying the obvious link between immigration and terrorism. however, i said it a few days ago and i repeat it today in this house: all the terrorists who have struck france in the last twenty years are immigrants or descendants of immigrants. there are other factors, of course, but if you continue to refuse to consider this fundamental root cause of mass and uncontrolled immigration, then you condemn our people to more and more islamist attacks on our soil.
mr president, in the face of the terrorist threat, the member states cannot act alone. we need a united, strong and cohesive europe to respond to this global threat. the report stresses the need for cooperation to enable the european union to strengthen its arsenal of counter-terrorism measures. it is through better cooperation and pooling of our capabilities that we can better defend ourselves against attacks. i welcome the provisions on the obligation to exchange relevant information on criminal investigations between member states, as well as on the confiscation of assets and funds used in connection with terrorist activities. the social democrats have always called for better information sharing and an aggressive policy against the financing of terrorism. i also welcome the proposals to improve the rights of victims of terrorism, but the battle is far from over, as experience has shown that the text will only have real meaning if all member states comply with the transposition commitments. we as members of the european parliament still have a role to play. i will be very attentive to the commission's assessment of the implementation of the text to check its added value. it will also enable me to ensure full respect for fundamental rights, freedoms and the rule of law. the security policies implemented by states must not in any way derogate from these fundamental values.
mr president, commissioner, we know that terrorism is an asymmetrical war which seeks not only to destroy lives, to cause victims, but even more to fracture our societies, to play on the emotional resources, sometimes the most sinister, and to promote its own ideology. so, faced with this extremely complex challenge, which is mutant, plastic, as much about security as it is sociological, educational or political, we must have a tailored response. it cannot be achieved through emotion alone, which is legitimate but which often leads us to take dramatic but not necessarily effective measures. in this respect, i am pleased that the directive under discussion today, enriched by the work of monika hohlmeier, provides practical, professional answers and really contributes to the improvement of what is fundamental, that is to say, our legislative arsenal, harmonized throughout europe. it is absolutely essential to have this common base. the dimensions of intelligence, police and justice must also be articulated much better and not confused. i hear far too many colleagues here confusing the exchange of information with information of a different nature. i know all too well that before we can coordinate and share information, we must collect it, and when we look at what has happened in our different countries, we see that very often, the dysfunctions affect first the collection of information before even the exchange of information. yes, therefore, to improved european platforms, strengthened at the judicial and police levels, but be careful not to create confusion or unnecessary superstructure that complicates operational work more than it improves it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by monica macovei, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the strengthening of checks in databases relevant to external borders (com ((2015) 0670 - c8-0407/2015 - 2015/0307 ((cod)) (a8-0218/2016).
member of the commission. – madam president, in the wake of the terrorist attacks in paris, the commission proposed the amendment to the schengen borders code introducing systematic checks for all citizens at our external borders. as we have just heard, these checks are vital to stopping, amongst others, potential terrorists, not just from coming into the eu, but also to prevent them from travelling to conflict zones. on behalf of my colleague, commissioner avramopoulos, as well as myself, i would like to say how grateful we are to the parliament, and in particular to the rapporteur, mrs macovei, for the work that they have done on this important dossier. the amendment will oblige member states to carry out systematic checks on all persons crossing an external border. they will be checked – as mrs macovei has just set out – against law enforcement databases, notably the schengen information system, to verify that they do not pose a threat to public order or internal security. this obligation will apply at all external borders – air, sea and land – both at entry and exit. however, if a systematic consultation of databases leads to a disproportionate impact on the flow of border traffic, then member states will have the option of carrying out targeted checks against the databases, provided that they first carry out an appropriate risk assessment. in the case of airports – again, as we have just heard – this option is generally only available for a transition arrangement of six months unless an airport has specific infrastructure problems, in which case an exception can be made to extend that transition period up to 18 months. the eu will provide financial assistance to member states to help them implement the new rules and in turn – like others here – i trust that the member states will do their utmost to be ready on time and that the new measures will translate into immediate and tangible results. the amended schengen borders code, together with the european border and coast guards, are crucial in our bid to preserve freedom of movement within the schengen area and to ensure the security of our citizens. we now need to press ahead with work on reinforcing the management and security of the eu’s external borders, including the work on the entry—exit and etias proposals. this is all part of returning to a fully functioning schengen area from which all our citizens benefit.
the committee on foreign affairs has tabled a number of amendments. madam president, from now on, checks at all the eu's external land, sea and air borders will be compulsory for all eu citizens and for all third country nationals. this revision of the schengen borders code is a direct response to the terrorist attacks on european soil and, in particular, i cannot forget, in paris. this amendment will make it possible to introduce systematic checks on persons entering and leaving the european territory, as well as systematic checks in databases. this decision can restore credibility to schengen, provided it is implemented quickly and effectively at all our borders and accompanied by the effective establishment of european coastguards and border guards. all the major countries in the world have effective controls at their external borders, and it is time for the european union to do the same for the security and protection of our citizens.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, my group is firmly opposed to this amendment to the schengen regulation, which is supposed to establish systematic and compulsory border checks. it is a new stage in the construction of a safe fortress europe, which has taken a new turn since 2015 in the name of the fight against terrorism and the so-called migration crisis, confusing the one with the other and in fact fuelling racism and xenophobia. the member states subscribe to this structure, which allows them to shoulder their responsibilities on the back of the european union. this regulation cannot be seen in isolation from the other texts currently before us, in particular the misnamed 'smart borders'. this text will make it possible to control third-country nationals on their entry and, from now on, on their exit and, to make things right, european citizens are added to it. in practice, however, checks will be random, and the relevant databases will only be consulted if there is any doubt about the validity of the travel documents. member states will be able to suspend compulsory checks to smooth traffic. i'm surprised at you. and certain categories of people may also be exempted. so, in the end, this device is really variable geometry. i see in reality a great deal of hypocrisy, if not cynicism, at the expense of fundamental rights, without the right to security and, above all, the right to security of our fellow citizens being strengthened.
madam president, in view of the current state of threats, i can only stress the need to better manage our common external borders and to ensure freedom of movement for all within the schengen area. it is only then that it will function normally again, and that is our aim, because returning to national borders is not an option. however, two points are necessary here. firstly, the socialist group will remain vigilant about the accumulation of checks, audits and databases. our efforts to keep our citizens safe could be counterproductive. secondly, i will be attentive to the practical implementation of these measures by the member states, in particular the need for airports to adapt their infrastructures for the application of systematic checks. i do not want the situation with the npr directive to happen again. the council also pressed parliament to adopt the text quickly, whereas today it is clear that only four member states are on the verge of having an operational pnr. safety is everyone's business. it is only through better cooperation between all actors, both european and national, that we can effectively respond to the threats we face today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statement on the exchange of information on law enforcement in the union and the replacement of instruments dating from before the lisbon treaty (2017/2504 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this exciting report which makes us think about the future and go beyond our view of the world as it is. it is also a courageous report, because sometimes we are a little dazed by the size of the field we have to clear. it is true that it might be more comfortable to look the other way, imagining that if we refuse to look at these issues, they will disappear by themselves, or to rely solely on industry, thinking that from a strictly economic point of view, it will find solutions. on the contrary, i believe that a secure legal framework, based on the values of the european project, humanist values, is both an asset for european businesses and a guarantee of well-being and security for european citizens. what are these questions that we are faced with? legal questions about liability, security and intellectual property; ethical questions about privacy, bioethics and democracy, about the transparency of decisions; and then questions about the very organization of society: what distribution of wealth and what impact on the labour market? in conclusion, i would like to take to all those who refuse to debate, who say that those who ask the question know nothing about technology, the words of elon musk, who knows a little bit about technological innovation. two days ago he said: 'there will be fewer and fewer tasks that a robot cannot do and better than a human being.' it's not something i wish for, it's something that's very likely to happen and a universal income of some kind is going to become necessary. so, my friends, let's not shy away from debate, we have a lot to think about and debate together to invent the solutions of tomorrow.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, intelligent robots have become a reality. they are machines programmed to make decisions, like, for example, driverless cars or certain surgical robots. the delvaux report is right to be concerned about them, because their intelligence will, in the near future, exceed the intellectual capacities of human beings. the use of such services must therefore be governed by ethical principles, such as respect for privacy and human freedom. the delvaux report, unfortunately, advocates dangerous solutions in terms of liability, because it does not simply recommend the introduction of a compulsory insurance scheme and a guarantee fund, as it should have done. it envisages the creation of a specific legal personality for robots, which would be tantamount to considering robots as 'responsible electronic persons'. i object to this prospect for two reasons: firstly, because it would absolve their manufacturers and users of all liability, which would undoubtedly please powerful lobbies; and secondly, and above all, because i believe, as does jacques maritain, that the human person has a spiritual super-existence to which no artificial intelligence can be compared.
madam president, giving legal personality to non-humans, who are described as technically more capable electronic persons, opens up for them, in the very short term, rights inevitably superior to those of potentially fallible humans. it is already a reality in the united states, so it is too late to ask questions. in the united states, there is a clear plan to stop insuring humans in the event of accidents with autonomous vehicles, the very ones that are built under the impulse of uber, associated with google. this would, in the end, only be autonomous vehicles, giving uber, once again, a monopoly on motor vehicles. very serious forecasts predict more than 400 000 job losses among north american truck drivers. in europe, already suffering from massive unemployment, millions of jobs are likely to be lost and a universal income will not be enough to stem the tide of poverty. it is essential to move towards progress, but to take this legal route is suicidal for our workers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken thirty years for the political world to finally have the decency to look at the legal framework for robots. thirty years of hollywood telling us all about the promise of innovation -- think back to the future -- as well as its potential dangers -- think terminator. thirty years after the introduction of robots, our citizens are experiencing it every day: for better, when it makes their lives more convenient; for worse, when it takes away their jobs. transport is involved and this raises many questions. think about the self-driving car: innovation is needed to transform the european automotive industry, to move to electric, connected and self-driving cars, trucks, buses. but who will be responsible if there is an accident? the manufacturer, the car, the passengers? this obviously applies to drones as well. we know that manufacturers cheat on pollution tests, so how can we be sure that they will not cheat on some conformity tests? how do we anticipate the issues of cyber security, data protection? how can we be sure that a human hand will be able to take back control in the face of any problem? all this makes it imperative to put the precautionary principle at the heart of our work, for innovation, but above all for all of humanity.
madam president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur because it was not easy to start this report. i have a number of points which are still problematic. i'll address two of them. the first is the use of words and words mean something, both in french and in english. in articles 36 and 38, when we talk about 'repairing', on a medical level, i have no problem with that, but when we talk about 'improvement' or 'enhancement', we are talking about something that has nothing to do with it. what does that mean? this reflects the project that is also developing in the united states in a very strong way: the project of the transhumanists, of the augmented man. i think we must be very firm on this point. that is why i would like to see the notion of 'improved man' removed from the vote tomorrow. i think that's very important. the second problem is the question of law. on this point, like the other members, i too think that the use of words is dangerous because, so far, the right of persons has only affected humans or groups of humans. i think that part should also be removed.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mady delvaux very much and say that to her twice. the first is that this report is one of the most interesting i have ever worked on and that it is one which i will return to in the future. what is expected of politicians, of those in charge of our elected representatives, but to try to anticipate and anticipate in order to respond as well as possible to the changes which will obviously befall our fellow citizens if we do nothing? the second reason why i would like to thank her is that her report has put the european parliament in the spotlight, because in france it has been the subject of much debate and has raised awareness of these issues. i would say that those who are afraid, in particular, of the paths being traced on the question of the universal income or the scarcity of work should read the report. it is not that they must be put in place, but simply that they must be thought through and that the commission must be a watchdog in making proposals. if we ever take all that out of the report, then we will weaken it considerably. this is not a matter of obligations, but of a debate perspective and we must therefore support this report in its entirety, with all that it contains.
madam president, madam commissioner, i have co-signed this oral question because i find it difficult to understand how this new toll on german roads is in line with european law, when the germans themselves are exempt from it. this injustice is particularly misunderstood in border areas. what should we say to the 30,000 alsatian frontier workers who cross the border every day or to those occasional travellers who cross the rhine? that you have to pay, while others don't. the toll as such is not the problem. germany is exempt from taxation. the difficulty is that once again, the inhabitants of the border areas will suffer further administrative and financial hassles, this time coupled with a deep sense of injustice.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i will speak on my own behalf to say that i do not understand you. i will defend germany, once is not customary. the germans paid for their highways with their taxes. the difference is that foreigners did not pay for these highways with their taxes. the only thing to do is equivalence. i take the example of the french. they paid for their highways first with taxes. then there were concessions: they pay double. that is why we want to give the french their motorways back in our programme. the only thing, in fact - and i say this as an alsatian - is that it is quite normal that when i benefit from german infrastructure, i pay for it. the only thing is that when you benefit from french infrastructure, you also participate in it. the pity is that the lorries which no longer want to pay on the german side come to the french side and are not charged there.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this report was originally my report. my concern was to: master the supply chain, both software and hardware at the level of european companies, that is to say, truly european companies with their headquarters in europe, manufacturing in europe and with european capital; master security with security keys that allow it and, inter alia, quantum keys; to master the concept of openness, because openness must not simply be one-way and serve only foreign powers, while the us or china protect themselves with the concept of openness; the data are not owned by the data subject, but by the data subject. i was surprised. i was surrounded by a team of 25 specialists and 5 coordinators, also specialists in this sector. we have discovered, commissioner, that some companies - the first in europe - have not been consulted. we've found that you're putting a lot of money into supercomputers, but you're also leaving out quantum, for example, or other sectors like microprocessors, which represent 20 times the supercomputer market. we've discovered that your policy is mostly foreign lobbyists. these facts - i have given all the work to the commission - my colleagues reject them. reality is postponed. i am afraid, commissioner, that this policy will fail, and i would therefore like to say that if i had not already had reasons to leave europe, i now have one more.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam commissioner, simplifying rules and procedures is a necessity. we all agree. but if the programming of the funds is showing delays, this is also due to the fact that there is no coherence in the whole of european policies, because you know that austerity policies have weighed on the ability of the states to co-finance. i therefore want to stress the need for coherence in community policies. we must also be careful that the deliberate trials on cohesion, which are sometimes unfair, do not weaken the policy that is actually mitigating the disastrous effects of the crisis and the policies implemented. the more the crisis gets worse, the more we need a large and effective cohesion policy. this is what we are working towards, especially in the post-2020 perspective.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, dozens of reports, debates, trilogues and exchanges of views, all to return to the same question: why is it that the €454 billion from european funds still does not reduce regional disparities? you may have carried out communication campaigns - with public money, too - to try to convince the people of europe of the usefulness of the european union, but the facts are still stubborn. the thematic concentration, designed to avoid the waste of funds, leaves rural and peri-urban areas in favour of large metropolises. the administrative complexity inherent in bureaucracy discourages many beneficiaries and project promoters from using eu funds. finally, the introduction of ex ante criteria makes the allocation of these structural funds conditional on the implementation of ultra-liberal austerity policies in the member states. you remember, just a few weeks ago, you were discussing the suspension of funds for spain and portugal, which were not meeting their public deficit targets, you pretended to be indignant and opposed, but the damage was done. this sword of damocles has definitively discredited the esi funds, which are used to force member states to comply with the injunctions of brussels. the only way out for these european funds is to renationalize them for the benefit of our compatriots who need them more than ever.
mr president, madam commissioner, with a budget of €351 billion for the period 2014-2020, cohesion policy is the european union's largest expenditure item and enables the implementation of many projects crucial to the development of our regions. however, the late conclusion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the complexity of the rules for managing the structural funds have led to many delays in the adoption of the operational programmes. as you know, the late implementation of these programmes runs the risk of unnecessary redundancy, which is unfortunate when many regions, still hard hit by the crisis, are in real need of this funding. the mid-term review of the mff offers an opportunity to simplify both the management and accessibility of the funds and to improve their efficiency. however, i would urge great vigilance in the area of increasing synergies between the structural funds and the financial instruments, otherwise we will be witnessing a financialisation of cohesion policy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i have worked for more than thirty years at air france and have unfortunately seen the harmful effects of increased competition in the aviation sector. by wanting too much and deregulating too often for reasons of profitability, the european union has created a framework which, in the end, benefits foreign and low-cost airlines far more than our historic national airlines, which are now paying for this excessive chase for savings. the fact is that, whether for the large incumbent operators or the main airports, large-scale developments are taking place outside the european union. the airline industry seems to be the only one to benefit, but at what cost? for example, despite its commercial success, the airbus group is moving operations, reducing its research and development budgets and reducing its workforce. i therefore strongly oppose the expression 'unacceptable tendency towards protectionism' which the rapporteur has inserted in his text, because i believe that the opposite logic is unacceptable, the logic which has been at the forefront of the institutions of the european union for the last 40 years and which has made free trade a dogma in the name of a sacrosanct free and undistorted competition, which is clearly a decoy, including in the airline sector, which in recent years has been faced with unfair competition from gulf companies. finally, i am not too surprised, mr rapporteur, that you share the commission's mercantilist vision, since you yourself have been a member of that institution, but i consider it perfectly appropriate for public authorities to defend the employment of their nationals and protect their businesses. if some people think that advocating a protective framework for our aviation sector is populist, then i welcome that as a compliment. i am not satisfied that several airlines are disappearing or falling into the hands of foreign companies because the states are not allowed to save them. i also do not resign myself to the emergence of these new economic models such as pay-to-fly, letterbox companies, zero-hour contracts and fake self-employment. on this last point, however, i can only welcome the recommendations made by the committee on employment and social affairs, but i remain suspicious of the commission's willingness to implement them, because in general it is not inclined to sanction this type of behaviour, which is detrimental to the safety of seafarers and passengers. this is evidenced by the fact that no low-cost airline is among the top 10 airlines in the jacdec ranking. i shall therefore abstain on this report until the rapporteur has given a convincing answer.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr telička, for his report. the air transport sector is a dynamic sector with a growth rate of + 5% per annum. in terms of co2 emissions, this will translate into seven-fold levels by 2050, because the sector already accounts for 3% of global co2 emissions. therefore, the aviation sector alone is jeopardising the objectives of cop21. in my view, we have no room for such development without a technological shift and without a strong constraint, particularly on carbon emitted. the other problem, besides the climate, is that the sector is unregulated. the competition is unfair with the airport hubs and gulf airlines; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive. we have talked about social problems, with increasingly precarious wage employment - this is the case of pay-to-fly, zero-hour contracts for crews - whereas the link between social conditions and security is obvious. today, therefore, it is a sector which must take into account, in an important way, the environmental aspect, the social aspect, but also the technological aspect.
mr president, madam commissioner, the aviation and aerospace sectors, which directly employ hundreds of thousands of people in europe, including almost 190 000 in france, are real pillars of growth for europe. the european commission understood this well when it presented its communication on an aviation strategy for europe in december 2015. today we are debating a comprehensive report which takes account of the key issues in making the sector a tool for strengthening europe, both in its internal market and on the international stage. aviation safety, together with the reform of easa, the single european sky, air passenger rights, the global agreement on emission ceilings and, finally, the international dimension of the aviation strategy are priority areas which will have to guide the action of the commission and the member states beyond the aviation strategy itself. i want to emphasize one point: as in sport, i fight for the same rules of the game for all. but there is still much to be done in the fight against unfair business practices. we must be aware of the need to defend our european airlines and our airports. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to complete the reform of the regulation on unfair practices and on negotiations with third countries. it is by finding new growth opportunities and fighting unfair trading practices that the european aviation sector will regain its solid future prospects.
in writing. with the policy of opening up the european civil aviation sector to competition, european airlines are subject to two competitive pressures: on the one hand, the development of the low-cost sector and, on the other hand, the increased competition from airlines, especially from gulf countries, which would be boosted by public aid from these states (whether direct aid or particularly advantageous taxation). this situation, as in all sectors subject to strong competitive pressure due to aggressive liberalization policies, has resulted in worsening working conditions for employees of european airlines. thus, abuses such as 'zero-hour' contracts or 'self-employment' are now evident in some of these societies. the report, which follows the european commission's aviation strategy of december 2015, calls in particular for the rapid establishment of the 'single european sky', but does not mention any concrete measures to improve the situation of european airlines. the absurdity of the anti-protectionist dogma is becoming clearer at a time when our competitors are making generous use of methods which are subject, in the member states, to strict legal restrictions.
author. mr president, the executions of ali al-singace, abbas al-samea and sami mushaima on 15 january are a sad symbol. they were executed a week after their sentences, based on confessions that were undoubtedly extracted under torture. ali, abbas and sami are the first people to be executed since 2010. the first to be politically motivated since 1996. this is a very good reason for our resolution, which is based on the un declarations. perhaps there is still time to save mohammed ramadan and hussein moussa, who are sentenced to death under the same conditions. we can also be concerned about the resumption of executions in kuwait, where seven people, almost all foreigners, including three women, have just been hanged, despite the fact that there had been no executions in the country since 2013. in both countries, torture is unfortunately common, as is the loss of citizenship. we should also denounce the situation of the bidoun, literally stateless people without rights, who are particularly discriminated against, and of migrant workers. i regret the 'double standards' practised by certain political groups, as we have just seen in the previous debate, and mr preda has just made a sad caricature of us. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. it's okay to ask a question, but it's better to listen to me before you ask one. i did say that what we were concerned about in the situation in bahrain and what justified our resolution was the fact that there had been a moratorium and that executions had resumed. that seems clear to me. moreover, as our resolution says - if you have read it - the suspicions of torture are based on statements by ngos, and the largest of them. these suspicions were picked up by the un, and i think that's a reliable source.
mr president, i think you have summed up the situation perfectly. everyone knows the text as it was deposited. we have just voted on the verhofstadt and brok-bresso reports. it is now time to vote on the bögeberès report. we therefore oppose this postponement.
mr president, this report, like the other two, suffers from the same disease: it claims to recognize the freedom of peoples, provided that the freedom of money is protected. this is the doctrine of ultra-liberalism. i would rather say that even if you insist on the need for a europe of war, renamed a europe of defence, to bring together the peoples of europe, you will not achieve anything as long as you do not want social harmonization, as long as you do not want fiscal harmonization, as long as you do not want independence from nato. you leave only one prospect for the peoples who want peace, social progress and independence: that they come to say to themselves 'this is europe, either we change it or we leave it'. what has begun is not the expected positive change, but people are starting to leave europe. it is pathetic that your response to brexit is only the europe of defence and the constitutionalisation of financial rights.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we note your profession of faith that your commission, mr president, does not impose, does not prescribe. if this is true, then you will have to take the experience and the words of the citizens - the workers, the farmers, the unemployed, the young - as a basis for organising a major european citizens' debate; the european union is a global community of nations, and the european union is a global community of nations. the challenges are too big, too daunting not to change course. the challenge is not to simply make the front of the building look better: we must rethink, we must re-establish ourselves and we will have to take stock of the application of the treaties. as long as the european union is not the business of the people themselves, as long as it does not take into account their aspirations for a better life, as long as it is not a project for justice, equality, solidarity, democracy, human and environmental well-being, it will continue to be rejected. as long as it is seen only as a system of strangulation of greece or a kind of police of public expenditure, as long as it is a fortress for migrants but a paradise for the free movement of capital, it will continue to be rejected. as long as it is riding in tandem with business and financial institutions to the detriment of workers, it will be rejected. that is why, mr president juncker, we can imagine another scenario, a scenario which starts with the people themselves, the employees, the creators, the young people. launch a great european popular debate preparing a european conference for the democratic, social, ecological and feminist refoundation of the european project. failure to do so will condemn the european idea itself. let us start by consulting the people on the free trade project with canada: this would be an act showing that europe is an asset in transforming globalisation. replace the concept of generalised competition with that of cooperation, austerity with a new distribution of wealth and a new way of producing it, unemployment and precariousness with occupational social security, the current common agricultural policy with a new agricultural and food policy which takes account of employment and health. let us imagine a new policy for the industry of tomorrow and for the digital world, a major project of cooperation with the countries of the south. we can make sure that the billions of euros of liquidity provided by the european central bank are used for employment projects and new public services. let us launch a grand plan against tax evasion and a project for tax and social harmonisation aimed at justice. the european project could be revived by amending the fund you have set up to make it a fund for social, human and environmental development which, at the same time, could refinance the over-indebted states. mr president, we must not miss this historic moment. listen to the people, get them involved in a new project.
mr president, mr juncker, i would like to believe you when you say that you have a social europe at heart and that you really want it to become a priority. we all agree here - you said when you took office that this could be the commission of the last chance - we all know that there is a major problem with the european union at the moment. without any intentional lawsuits, how can we study possible solutions if we have not shared a common diagnosis of why the european union is in crisis and in difficulty? i will not go into the details of your last scenario, which is clearly your preferred one. it's just the same as the first one, except you take off your shoes and put on sneakers, but you're still going to the same place and still on the same path. mr juncker, we must - as mr verhofstadt has clearly said - ask ourselves the question of the deadlocks in this europe and ask ourselves, in order to make real progress, what reforms do we need to implement in order to transform this european union?
mr president, mr juncker, i thank you for choosing the european parliament to present your white paper. as you know, the european parliament has just adopted three reports which could make a strong contribution to the round of debates you have just opened. as regards the white paper, i can see that you were forced to put on the table a number of scenarios. it seems to me that there is only one that is really viable. he needs to be fed; it must be the basis from which we convince our electorate - the european citizens - that this is the way forward. the year 2017 is a year that you have defined in all its breadth until its conclusion at the european council in december, and this is the path we must follow. but along the way there are elections, and i see your white paper which you are presenting to us here in the european parliament, whereas we ourselves have already made our contributions to this reflection, as an appeal to the capitals. the issues and scenarios you present must be seen as alternatives in each of the capitals as the member states decide what they want for themselves, but also as they choose what they want for europe.
mr president, there are those who assert themselves and those who resign themselves, there are those who are realistic and those who play on fears, there are those who work for the future with pragmatism and those who isolate themselves. believing in europe is not an option, it is a necessity. but believing is not enough: we must act, because the current geopolitical instability is forcing us to reinvent our project. the european commission is now drawing up a number of scenarios for the future of europe. we shall be conducting this discussion with you, pragmatically and without dogmatism. the dream sellers must understand that. here in parliament we are working to build a europe that acts and wins. brexit will raise the consciousness. yes, the negotiations will be difficult, but they must be, because a europe à la carte is not a solution. i trust michel barnier to carry this process through, and the british people and all europeans will realise what the uk is losing by leaving the european union. sixty years after the signing of the treaty of rome, there is only one question that must guide our action: what kind of europe do we really want? preparing for the future of europe means acting on unbiased priorities for strengthening security and the fight against terrorism, for greater control of our borders, for seeking growth where it is, abroad, by promoting a smart trade defence, and for a revival of industrial policy. it will take courage to face the lies of all those who dream of the end of europe. they propose to weaken our continent and our states, but we are working to strengthen a community of destiny that protects and, above all, is respected in the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr president of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, mr commissioner, this debate is really a continuation of the debate we had earlier on the future of europe. it is also a crucial and highly symbolic moment, since in march we will be celebrating the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome and we should also be opening the brexit negotiations, a symbol of the crises facing the european union. the tensions with russia, terrorism, the war in syria, the economic crisis, the migration crisis, the new policy of the united states... the world lives on a volcano that, far from being extinct, can awaken at any moment. in the face of these threats, europe is the last island of stability that must be preserved. to do this we must implement a common defence policy, which is a prerequisite for protecting our borders and defending our values in the world. yet the european union appears to our fellow citizens less and less as a community, and more and more as a collection of national egos. it is high time that the heads of state or government faced up to their responsibilities: do we want to continue building europe or tear it apart? that was the subject of the previous debate. i therefore commend the maltese presidency for its unremitting efforts to push forward an ambitious agenda. this is the case, for example, with regard to investment: mr vice-president, you spoke of the efforts of the efsi, the capital markets union, all these investments which should enable us to support industry and innovation and create the jobs that our citizens demand. i am also pleased that agreement was reached on the 2017-2020 structural reform support programme. this programme must now be implemented as quickly as possible, because, let us not be mistaken, the convergence of our economic, social and fiscal policies is essential to the strengthening of the euro area. to this end, substantive reforms are urgently needed in many member states, particularly in france. the euro must be an instrument of european power, but we cannot build anything without confidence and without solid economic and social foundations, at the risk of seeing our common home collapse on its foundations. while withdrawal and protectionism seem to have become the rule since the election of donald trump, in particular, europe must continue to carry, without naivety, a message of openness. our continent can turn the development of trade into a tremendous economic asset. europe must be there, the world is watching. the european parliament, on behalf of the citizens, must continue to be the driving force behind a european leap forward. let us not be impressed, history will prove us right.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, while our farmers are talking their heads off, the european commission informs us that it is diverting the european agricultural fund for rural development to finance the settlement of illegal migrants. you should be ashamed of the 30% of french farmers who earn less than 350 euros a month. already faced with the abolition of milk quotas and unfair international competition, they do not have the same chance of benefiting from the commission and their leaders, who prefer to negotiate free trade agreements such as the aecg behind their backs, which, i remind you, will sign the death warrant for our agriculture. this european union was supposed to defend security, prosperity and purchasing power. but this european union is doing the complete opposite, because the european peoples simply want to leave this european union which is imposing austerity policies in the member states. spain, portugal and now italy are all threatened with financial sanctions if they fail to reduce their debt. in the uk, they said yes to brexit and, contrary to what the so-called experts are saying, the uk economy is doing much better than elsewhere in europe, with higher exports and lower unemployment. the year 2017 will be the final blow to this faltering european union. in the netherlands, france and germany, the people will sweep you away once and for all, in order to finally build a europe of nations and freedoms.
mr president, mr vice-president, the european council will be held at a time when we will not know what the british have done. so, as you said, this spring european council will have to deal with the question of investment while awaiting the deposit of the article 50 instruments. beyond the efsi, i believe that for the european union, what we also need today is investment that is maintained in the service of social investment and the ecological transition in which the european union must engage. in addition, for the first time, the european council will have to adopt a specific recommendation for the euro area. i think this is a very important step forward in improving the coordination of economic policies in the area. this must become a regular tool to be able to steer the economic policies of the member states in an aggregated way in the service of investment and employment, rather than a cycle of austerity that has lasted too long within the european union. at this council you will be speaking about the internal market. as regards the capital markets union, let us be careful that this project is refocused in the light of the new situation linked to the brexit debates.
mr president, commissioner, we are going in circles. exactly one year ago, europol reported the disappearance of 10,000 migrant children, and everyone was shocked by these disappearances, even though we have been denouncing this for years. i guess so. today, a year later, we are still debating and debating. yet, there are solutions to protect these children. we know them, and you, mr commissioner, have mentioned them: immediate identification, registration, immediate appointment of a guardian, shelter and a free telephone number. these are fairly simple measures and let us remember that we are talking, roughly speaking, about 90,000 children compared to a europe of half a billion citizens. but these measures must be wanted and implemented. commissioner, i am not going to denounce the commission's inaction today, quite the contrary. but in the end, it is not here, in this chamber, that the debate should take place, but rather in the national parliaments, because it is the states that are doing the fishing and, as in many other areas, they are sorely lacking in political will and are acting hypocritically by not respecting either the commitments or the european legislation. let us stop blaming europe for what it cannot do. you, commissioner, are our spokesman for putting the member states on the back foot. it is a scandal for these children and a disgrace for european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, on 12 september 2013 we already voted on a resolution condemning the shortcomings in the protection of unaccompanied minors in the union and denouncing the often deplorable reception conditions of these minors and the many violations of their fundamental rights in some member states. four years later, 10,000 miners have disappeared, according to europol. it's a lousy record and a collective bankruptcy. unaccompanied minors are one of the most vulnerable populations and yet their rights are violated as soon as they arrive in europe, with detention, slow procedures and family reunification not taking place, all of which are reasons for them to flee at the risk of falling into the hands of traffickers. we can prevent this, for example by stopping the transfer of minors under the dublin regulation, by prohibiting the detention of minors or by relocating those who have arrived. this requires putting the best interests of the child at the heart of the process, and i regret to say that resuming transfers to greece is not a good way forward, as this principle will have a direct impact on minors, whose reception conditions remain unacceptable, especially in first-arrival countries.
madam president, today's debate on the gender pay gap is both vital and futile. this is essential, because it is intolerable that the pay gap between men and women for the same job is about 9%. this is futile, because the figure of 9% only reflects part of the sad reality. the net annual wage gap is 25% if parttime work and occupational segregation are taken into account. in march 2015, i already denounced the scandal of these women forced to take part-time work to earn 700 euros a month, which is less than the poverty line. today, one in three women work part-time. occupational segregation - the fact that women and men do not work in the same sectors, do not have access to the same positions, do not have the same responsibilities - also has a major influence on this pay gap. we must also denounce the exploitation of all these women in the retail sector, in cleaning companies or in other products of globalisation, who, for a miserable salary, do not even control their own time.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, we all agree that domestic violence everywhere must be fought and victims protected and supported. when i saw this debate on the agenda for our work tonight, i wondered what crime the russian government could have committed. but contrary to what you claim, nowhere in the text adopted by the duma by almost unanimous vote is any form of violence, either in the home or in the family, justified. this is the way humanity is made, the family is sacred to all - or almost all - because one can doubt this in view of the texts adopted and the speeches made in this house which seriously endanger the traditional family balance by attacking the institution of marriage, by promoting the theory of gender or by adopting measures allowing the commercialization of the female body. so rather than thinking about russian children getting an education and, sometimes, certainly, spanking from their parents, it might be wiser for you to try to understand the reasons for the monumental electoral spankings that the european union will receive in a few months. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the debate is closed. the competent authorities shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. this debate on the decriminalization of domestic violence in russia is symptomatic of the continuing misinformation about the state in the western media. under the revised article 116 of the russian criminal code, domestic or family violence without health consequences will now be punishable by 15 days of administrative detention, a fine of 30,000 rubles or 180 hours of community service. this reform removes a legal inconsistency. in fact, perpetrators of violence without consequences on health (such as spanking, in relation to children) were previously subject to criminal law on the pretext of their status as 'close relatives' of the complainant. violence of similar gravity, which any other individual would have been guilty of, fell under the civil law. domestic violence that causes harm to health, even if it is harmless, remains a criminal offence and carries a penalty of up to two years' imprisonment. the reform also introduced the restrictive orders, which were unknown in russian law until then. russian society is as opposed to domestic violence as western european societies. the reform is simply intended to prevent any interference by the state in the family sphere.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on the violations of the current freedom of movement of european union citizens residing in the united kingdom and the use of expulsions after six months, by sophia in t veld, catherine bearder, gérard deprez, cecilia wikström, maite pagazaurtundúa ruiz, angelika mlinar, louis michel, nathalie griesbeck, beatriz becerra basterrechea, maría teresa giménez barbat, yana toom, renate weber, javier nart, carolina punset, ivo vajgl, marian harkin, enrique calvet chambon and marietje schaake, on behalf of the alde group, claude moraes and dance, on behalf of the s&d group, jean sebbert, on behalf of the greens/efa group, and marie-christine verat, gérard deprez, marina spinelli, ernst albi, barbara lópi, jos jos, jos abaj, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos, jos
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the council on the gender balance among judges of the court of justice, by mady delvaux, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o000149/2016 - b8-0203/2017) (2016/3025 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, equality between men and women is a fundamental legal principle in france and in europe. it is also a founding principle of contemporary european civilization. on this and many other subjects, the european union is unfortunately unable to set an example. only three of the 15 judges recently appointed to the court of justice of the european union are women, which shows a certain disregard for other women who had the requisite competence to be chosen. it is urgent to act. the equality of men and women must be strongly reaffirmed at a time when daesh and certain communal groups are advocating the subjugation of women to men. if the union does not do so, the european peoples will bear the consequences. but for her, it's probably already too late. in france, a woman will soon be responsible for enforcing gender equality in place of the union.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by zdzisław krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the establishment of an information exchange mechanism with regard to intergovernmental agreements and non-binding instruments in the field of energy (com (2016) 0053 - c8-0034/2016 - 2016/0031 (cod)) (a8-0305/2016).
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the european union is charged by the treaties to guarantee equal access to health for all and, of course, to quality and safe health. but it is a complex task, given the fragmentation of national healthcare systems, the structural differences between member states and the development of science which makes possible innovations whose cost will undoubtedly increase. however, we have been able to do this best so far thanks to the establishment of a strong regulatory framework, with legislation on human medicines, the crossborder healthcare directive, the orphan medicines regulation and many other texts. this regulatory framework has encouraged research and innovation, through carefully targeted incentives, while improving access to treatment. this is evident, for example, in france, where innovative treatments are often readily available and drug costs have stabilised between 2009 and 2014. the tremendous breakthrough innovations that are finally coming to market will usher medicine into a new era and will have a huge impact on prices. of course, this does not raise the question of the sustainability of our health care systems, but that is not why we should give up. i have the impression that this is what some people here have wanted to do with this report, the final version of which is fortunately much more measured. i would like to make a serious warning, however: let us not slow down the innovation of tomorrow with short-term calculations. medical research is a long-term endeavour and needs visibility and stability. the challenge of access to treatment will be met by new business models for laboratories, enhanced cooperation between member states, harmonisation of the evaluation of medical technologies at european level, the evolution of ehealth and digital technology and the development of prevention. more complex solutions, yes, but more lasting. let's think about it! the cost of innovation is also the price of progress.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, how many patients in europe are experiencing increasing difficulties in accessing vital medicines? whether it is cancer treatments for hepatitis c or for rare diseases, some astronomical prices are a real scandal. should the pharmaceutical industry, which has created 800 000 jobs, be penalized? i am also concerned about the use of legal tools such as compulsory licensing to promote research and development of generic medicines, but in europe. the european union cannot go beyond its powers. in particular, reimbursement is a sovereign decision of the states and the union cannot impose its definition of universal access to care.
mr president, the common agricultural policy is a terrible failure. in france, 700 farmers committed suicide last year and one in three farmers lives on less than 350 euros a month. agriculture commissioner phil hogan initially denied the seriousness of the situation. he now admits that he is completely out of touch. in an interview with the libération newspaper on 28 february, he said that more aid should be given to small farms and less to large ones. but nothing is done. the problem is deeper than that. the cap is responsible for the agricultural disaster because it has recklessly abolished customs duties and deliberately encouraged the concentration of farms. the 1000-cow farm and its production model: a model adapted to ultra-liberalism. if we want to preserve family farming, then we must change the model completely. as a frenchman, i am in favour of replacing the cap with a french agricultural policy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i welcome the work of the rapporteur with whom i share some of the findings and recommendations for the implementation of the creative europe programme. the report recognises the complexity of the administrative and financial structure, particularly for smes, and calls on the commission to simplify it further, particularly for the application procedures. i also support the rapporteur's recommendations on literary translation projects, which should include the promotion of books and reading, which i believe are fundamental objectives not only for the health of our industries but also in their educational dimension. i have reservations about other points, however. that won't surprise you. you complain about the limited budget, but you do not hesitate to support and want to make the specific measure for the integration of refugees, which costs eur 1 600 000, sustainable. i remind you that it is not the member states, nor the european taxpayers, who should support your immigration delusions. i should also like to point out that you have just agreed with the council and the commission, during the trilogue for the european year of cultural heritage, that eur 4 million would come from the creative europe budget out of the eur 8 million that this communication operation will cost us in total. in this context, i am opposed to any increase in the budget for the programme and i tabled amendments to reiterate that, because of the limited budget, the programme should focus on the financing of european enterprises. i am therefore opposed to any further enlargement to third countries. i would also like to stress the need to allow member states to retain their cultural exceptions by ensuring that culture remains outside the negotiations of free trade agreements. you may object that this is already the case, but it is always good to recall basic principles so that they do not give in to the sirens of the global market. in the end, if i am to abstain on this report, i cannot help but note with sadness your ability to turn even the best of ideas into a lukewarm one.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs maría teresa giménez barbat, on her work. in an area such as this, cooperation with the political groups and listening are essential to deliver an ambitious report and to give new impetus to the 'europe for citizens' programme. this is a fundamental process at a time when europe is being attacked by nationalism and euroscepticism and is experiencing a sharp rise in intolerance, which is challenging the sense of belonging to a common space. what are our priorities? they were recalled by my colleagues. i'd say there were four of them. first, the question of the budget. i think we need to send a very clear message: we want a substantial increase in the resources available for this programme, which is of direct concern to the citizens of europe. the programme is still too limited in terms of resources. in particular, it is not normal to have such a low acceptance rate of dossiers. failure to evolve would mean discrediting this programme with the most committed citizens, and that is why we have asked for this budget to be increased to €500 million, or ultimately €1 per citizen. on the legal basis then. we want to be clear: the european parliament as the institution representing the european citizens cannot be absent from the legislative process, so a legal solution must be found, which i believe is non-negotiable. the third priority is the need for more active communication. in the digital and social media age, it is important that the programme can be more visible on the web and be represented in a non-bureaucratic and above all more educational discourse. the programme must also reach new audiences, especially young people, whose civic engagement is known to be too low, especially at the time of the european elections. the need to go beyond the somewhat restricted or overly traditional formats of public meetings is therefore to be met by developing more dynamic projects, which make it possible to share experiences. finally, in order to be accessible, the procedures for this programme must be simplified. efforts should focus on small project promoters and involve civil society more in the definition of priorities, which is certainly well placed to reflect the concerns of citizens. this programme should support participation by a wider range of audiences, including vulnerable people, who should benefit from additional support. in addition, we must continue to encourage successful initiatives such as twinning cities. in the hostile climate europe is experiencing, this programme must serve as a springboard to relaunch the european project among citizens committed to a strong europe and in a spirit of reaffirmed solidarity.
mr president, the austrian economist ludwig von mises said that at the root of all totalitarian doctrines lies the belief that rulers are wiser and more intelligent than their subjects. who better than one of your masters to think liberal-libertarian to describe you? this text is a piece of totalitarian propaganda and a real attack on freedom and democracy. any criticism of your euro-federalist project must be eradicated. you even want to use european taxpayers' money to fight against the stigmatization of immigrants and to develop counter-speeches. however, it seems to me that the people of europe have sent a clear message on this subject, both in the hungarian referendum and in the various opinion polls. in france, 56% of people surveyed in 2015 were opposed to welcoming migrants. as in the end of tartuffe, your false devotion to freedom and democracy is exposed and this report, one more reason for the peoples of europe to rise up.
in writing. it is imperative to combat the trafficking of certain wildlife species, which is exploited by criminal and mafia networks: as the rapporteur has pointed out, the illegal trade in wildlife is the fourth most lucrative criminal activity, with a turnover of up to €20 billion. these profits are also often used to finance terrorist activities, to which europe is particularly vulnerable. so beyond our environmental awareness, it is a safety issue! it should also be noted that we have a duty to look beyond market requirements, since this issue is also part of a perspective of sustainable co-development of the countries from which these species, often from the african continent, originate. however, some communities on the ground are often socially and economically dependent on sustainable trade in these species, and therefore supporting them is essential to achieve trade that is biodiversity-friendly and leads to the preservation of jobs and growth for the communities concerned. there is no need to introduce any new legislation: let us apply the standards already in place in this area!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank my colleagues in the parliament, the commission and the council with whom i have worked closely to improve the protection of european citizens against the harmful effects of mercury. as rapporteur for the epp group, i welcome the results of these negotiations. the text which has finally been submitted to us seems to me to be more realistic than the previous versions. this new text is ambitious to say the least. it puts our europe at the forefront of the fight against heavy metal pollution on the international stage, but it also gives our companies and researchers the time they need to develop viable alternatives. among the main elements of the reform, i would note that the export of mercury is now prohibited and the use of recycled mercury is encouraged. as regards dental amalgam, only encapsulated forms are authorised, ensuring both the health of the patient and the health of the practitioners. dentists will also need to equip themselves with amalgam separators to prevent any release into the environment. for at-risk populations, children, pregnant women, the use of amalgams is prohibited unless otherwise advised by a physician. the agreement also provides for a reduction in mercury levels in products and processes. as regards the management of mercury waste, i have fought with my epp colleagues for the safest storage, i.e. after the waste has been stabilised. in the face of heavy metal pollution, the 'mercury' regulation before us today is an example of an efficient europe that protects. the european union is not a mere institution. i hope that the union will defend its ambitious objectives with vigour at the minamata international convention conference in geneva next september.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, after the minamata disaster which has affected japan for several decades, it is time to take account of the harmful effects of this highly toxic substance, mercury, on our health and on our environment. unfortunately, on a subject of such gravity, where the urgency of action is real, the european commission does not miss the opportunity to strengthen its prerogatives, once again, whereas international action would be more effective and above all more legitimate. i welcome, of course, the provisions for the planned end of dental amalgam containing mercury, particularly to protect children and pregnant women. at the same time, the text is reasonable and pragmatic in that it continues to allow amalgamation in the encapsulated version, when strictly necessary. traceability is essential for mercury transport and waste management, but it should be a priority at international level. i think it is reasonable that third countries should manage their mercury waste themselves and fully within ten years, as the text provides. they are thus empowered and will not rely on european countries to do it for them. the text is welcome for further enhancing transparency by allowing citizens access to the european pollutant release and transfer register, extended, for the occasion, to the mercury waste stream. finally, the text encourages the parties to the minamata convention to create a global monitoring tool for the use and transport of mercury, which appears to be the best framework for action, in terms of efficiency, on an environmental issue of this importance.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cofferati, all the shadow rapporteurs, the slovak presidency and the previous presidencies for their hard work and the excellent collaboration on this dossier. the journey was not always easy. however, thanks to the determination and willingness to compromise by all the parties involved, a political agreement was reached in december last year. it is time to adopt this important directive, which will foster more long—term, transparent and sustainable capital markets in europe. the compromise proposal on the table today represents a balanced outcome. let me refer to some of the main aspects. first, i welcome the agreed approach concerning transparency of institutional investors, asset managers and proxy advisers. it will encourage institutional investors and asset managers to look at the long-term perspective and also consider environmental, social and governance factors when they invest. this is what our economy needs. second, the proposed solutions on remuneration will ensure more transparency and better oversight of directors’ pay, not only for shareholders, but also for companies and the whole society. how directors are paid influences how they conduct business. third, the proposed compromise will also ensure more efficient communication throughout the investment chain. in this way it will enable listed companies and their shareholders to communicate more efficiently. therefore it is a crucial step to encourage more shareholder engagement. we also need safeguards against abusive related-party transactions in order to attract more foreign investors to our capital markets. i note that the level of ambition in this respect has been reduced from what the commission initially aimed at. nevertheless, i believe that overall the compromise would clearly improve the current regulatory framework for related-party transactions across the eu. we need this directive to enhance europe’s competitiveness. it builds on lessons learned from the financial crisis and aims to foster sustainable growth. it respects member states’ corporate governance systems and keeps pace with the latest developments at international level. we need to show that the eu is able to deliver on this.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, your remarks have illustrated a europe that we love, a europe that should continue to be built, that is to say, the search for a balance between a europe that has economic strength, an economic vision and at the same time does not consider that regulation is a bad thing in all areas. a europe that regulates in a positive way, a europe that recognises that 'a shameless financialisation of economic activity can damage a medium and long-term vision' and this was very well said by mr cofferati. our industry was also built because captains of industry - as they were called at the time - had a medium and long-term vision for several generations. this is often supported by small businesses and smes and this is what this text is intended to reintroduce at the level of large companies. this legislation reminds us of something simple: transparency - you used that word, madam commissioner, and you were right to use it - must not stop at the doorstep of large companies. i can understand the desire of a number of people, both leaders and politicians, to ensure that the company is not burdened with too many burdens that would prevent it from being able to develop. i hear that argument, but still, absolute freedom, absolute deregulation, does not and does not bear fruit. generally speaking, we have to find this balance between this need for the medium and long term and that of the financiers, to have very short-term returns on the investments they produce. this is the work that has been done, this is your will and that of parliament to redirect a large number of financial investments to the real economy. i shall not go into detail, as this has been explained very well before. as regards the points of transparency we have achieved, i would like to say, as an environmentalist, that i am glad that the question of environmental and social risks is also being taken into account and that it constitutes a new guide and a new future for the european union.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the reports we have discussed this evening are indicative of the objective of the femm committee. the twofold purpose: first, to destroy what has been established, even if this means denying even the natural law. the second step is to rebuild the ideology with great force, all this while guaranteeing the defence of noble ideals. the headlines evoke great causes, the content more like a series of communitarian demands. the report by ms kozłowska-rajewicz gives an overview of the state of play of equality between men and women in terms of access to goods and services. good concrete proposals are made for working women and mothers, for the creation of childcare facilities for their children or for their social and legal protection. but soon the ideology emerges: we no longer talk about equality between men and women, but about the fight against discrimination based on sexual practice, sexual conversion or gender. the report by mrs moody criticises the use of eu funds for gender equality. while i share his criticism of the lack of control, i cannot help but point out the many communitarian paragraphs. you want to strengthen the asylum, migration and integration fund by creating specific funding to ensure the safety of migrants and refugees. what a fine gesture, if it were not carried out at the expense of all the citizens of the european union! the amif represents €510 million, just for the situation in greece, to finance the relocation of illegal migrants. the present situation is not a good one, but it is a very bad one for the european taxpayer. you're not stopping there. you are asking for €18 million to be allocated to the daphne programme, which aims to combat gender discrimination. there we go again. it is nevertheless symptomatic: the femm committee cannot help referring to gender, the product of an ideology which aims to make people believe that the individual is no longer a boy or a girl at birth, by virtue of his sex, but a being led to define himself, as he sees fit, according to his sexual desires and practices. yes, men and women are equal in law, and no, their sexual practices have nothing to do with that sacred equality. in the report by mr urtasun you are going in the same direction. the discrimination against lgbti people, categorized by your care, would be the consequence of their sexual practices. you call for the criminalization of so-called homophobic attitudes, which would give a lgbt man or woman a special right by virtue of their sexual practice. for the commission that wants to be the champion of equality between men and women, it's a joke. under the pretext of fighting inequality, your ideological blindness leads you to categorize people according to their situation and to oppose them to other categories: women against men, migrants against europeans, lgbti against heterosexuals, and the list goes on. finally, you are attacking conscientious objection, and that is very serious. protected by the charter of fundamental rights, the european convention on human rights and national laws, it guarantees freedom of thought, conscience and religion in every society. to call it into question is to take away a right which enables many people to work in conscience and in freedom.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we meet regularly in this house around 8 march to take stock, all of us together. we are debating three reports tonight which were discussed and then voted on in the committee on women's rights. i shall begin by saying a few words about the report by mr moody, and i shall say these words in the place of our colleague, barbara matera, who was the fictitious rapporteur for the epp group on this report and who cannot be here tonight because of the birth of her child. the moody report focuses on the need to integrate the gender dimension into the eu budget as a horizontal policy objective. some european programmes, the most important of which is the 'rights, equality and citizenship' programme and horizon 2020, contain specific actions to promote equality between men and women. the first programme is absolutely essential for financing actions to combat violence against women; the second, horizon 2020, offers opportunities to develop funding actions to promote women's entrepreneurship: two major causes that are among the epp group's key priorities. in working on the moody report, we as a group wanted to emphasize the major role played by the european social fund in financing projects to combat discrimination against women, in financing projects to promote equality between men and women. we also wanted to draw attention to the need to focus, perhaps more, the various european funds dedicated to actions in favour of equality between men and women on projects that are truly concrete, for which impact studies and feedback have shown that there is real effectiveness and real positive feedback. once again, it is important that european funds do indeed take this priority action very seriously, but at the same time we must be sensible and thrifty in the management of european taxpayers' money.
mr president, commissioner, these three reports come together in one clear statement. while much progress has been made, we still have a long way to go to achieve fair equality between women and men. among the many debates which these reports have generated, there are some themes which are very dear to me. among these are the right to abortion and access to reproductive rights. of course, i cannot speak of these rights without thinking of simone veil, a woman who has left such a mark on our continent and on this house which she has so brilliantly presided over. i understand that in the name of the principle of subsidiarity or out of religious conscience some national delegations may have different positions. however, as long as the right to abortion and access to reproductive rights are discussed in this house, i will proudly vote in favour. i believe that this is a fundamental right which, in the face of the radicalisation of certain political currents, needs to be defended and protected even more today. it's a matter of common sense. the place of women in the economy and in business is also one of the areas where france can be proud of having made progress. the copé-zimmerman act, for example, introduced the obligation to ensure a balanced representation of women and men on company boards and supervisory boards in 2011. we are pleased that the european parliament and the commission have now recommended this. thank you, commissioner, for continuing to work so that a directive can finally be adopted in this respect. even if they are not perfect, and because i believe that women's rights should not be limited to the establishment of a communication day, i shall vote in favour of these three reports.
in writing. from the necessary equality of rights between men and women to the limited egalitarianism that nature challenges, there is only one step that the european union is gladly taking. the report on equality between women and men by ernest urtasun is a good example of this. positive discrimination, in addition to being contrary to the republican principles currently in force in france, is always exercised to the detriment of someone. the imposition of quotas for women in positions of responsibility may be unfair to some men. only individual merit counts. the report introduces exotic notions, having only distant relations to its main subject. by seeking to impose an agenda that is more about the cultural battle than about real social policy, the report underestimates the real issues. what are they ? we must put an end to the euro-austerity spiral which is plunging young women into poverty. increase the supply of childcare services so that women can continue to work. this is an imperative given the continent's declining population. finally, continue to fight against the practices of another age brought from abroad: female circumcision, full veiling or forced marriages.
mr president, i am not satisfied with this report. data protection would mean that the data belongs to the person who issues it. this means moving away from the current economic model, where data is exploited and the supplier is not associated with the results and does not control the process. we also have to locate the data in europe -- you haven't specified this -- otherwise the data no longer belongs to us, according to the rules that america has set for itself. we have to master the software and hardware chain, because otherwise, the data will also escape us through technology. finally, you don't talk about the corporate data, the looting that's being done, including in all things open science. this report is therefore not satisfactory.
in writing. parliament will decide whether to set minimum standards, including through european legislation, for the protection of farmed rabbits and the gradual disappearance of conventional cages. at a time when the poultry sector is facing a structural crisis in europe, with prices tending to fall, the report by mr eck promotes niche farming and alternative livestock models which have unfortunately not yet proved their worth, particularly in terms of animal health and hygiene. the risk is that we will lose our production in europe and become exclusively dependent on chinese imports whose standards are not necessarily our own. in the face of a report which is very ideological, which contains factual errors and is not well balanced, i propose that the epp group table an alternative resolution. this is an ambitious resolution based on the efsa report, stakeholder views and national choices. moreover, given the weight of meat production in europe (4 member states and 1.1% of meat production) and the very wide divergence of approaches between states, european legislation would not bring any added value under the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. in a survey carried out in the summer of 2014 in 16 rabbit farms in five member states, ongi ciwf france highlighted the dire living conditions of the 340 million rabbits raised in the european union. confined to a4-sized fenced cages, which generate intense stress for the animal, rabbits are the farm animals most exposed to antibiotics. the text under discussion is therefore aimed at the gradual abandonment of battery farming. it removes a legal vacuum: rabbit farming is governed by directive 98/58/ec of 20 july 1998, but is not the subject of any specific text, unlike pigs, calves, laying hens or broilers. i welcome the fact that the material situation of farmers has been taken into account. under the terms of the text, financial support may be granted to them from the european funds under the rural development strand in order to facilitate the transition to a new mode of livestock farming, replacing, in particular, battery farming with enclosed livestock farming. the commission will, in particular, have to promote the consumption of rabbit meat, of which the european union is the second largest producer in the world.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, i have a question for you: how will this text help you to combat terrorism and the illegal arms trade effectively? as it should be recalled, this was the pretext initially invoked to justify the revision of the directive. it is vital to focus on the real: it is a moral requirement. terrorists are buying weapons on the black market. illegal weapons abound in europe. it's easier to buy an ak-47 on the darknet than it is to legally get a permit to buy a shotgun. today you are attacking honest citizens because you are unable to fight the scourge of islamism, because the european union is unable to protect its citizens, because you are unable to recognise the failure of schengen. this directive - and i will keep repeating this - is illegitimate because it is disproportionate to the objectives pursued, useless because it does not target the illegal arms trade, unfair because it only aims to restrict the freedoms of honest citizens, and disproportionate because it lacks impact studies. you cannot foresee the economic consequences for the sector and the cost to the citizens. my group, europe of nations and freedoms, has tabled an amendment rejecting this text, and i ask you to support it in the vote. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is "blue cardboard". i know what it takes to get a gun permit, having joined a shooting club myself. so i know very well what steps honest citizens must take to exercise their passion or obtain a weapon.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the europe of nations and freedoms group has attached a minority opinion to the report on waste. this text sets out our main concerns about the essential amendments to the directive. we have criticised tax incentives, which are the prerogatives of the member states. we deplored the lack of flexibility, given the diversity of the situation in the european union. we have noted that the inevitable consequence of this would be increased public spending and the deepening of the internal market, to the benefit of a few transnational entities, without any guarantee of efficiency. but i would like to mention the extended producer responsibility. on reflection, this rep considers that, in the whole manufacturing cycle of a product, the stage of making the production itself is the real problem. the intermediaries are thus exempted from the responsibility of creating future waste for recycling, as are the suppliers of raw materials, and the burden falls on the producers, i.e. it is the value added at the heart of the economy. it is also in manufacturing that uncontrollable costs lie. no doubt such a questionable subject will be the subject of passionate discussions in the council.
mr president, mr vice-president, i am glad that we can finally have this discussion on the issues of the circular economy. parliament has asked for it, the appointment is here, and i thank mrs bonafè for all the work she has done. the circular economy is a key issue when we look at the future of the european economy. but it cannot be just circular, it must also be solidarity-based. to achieve this, the role of social and solidarity-based economy enterprises must be at the heart of the strategy we are implementing. that is what mrs bonafè's report does, and i thank her for that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not reused, and that the waste is not reused. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not reused. from this point of view, in many situations, there are logistics platforms of producers, which means that this waste may not automatically be considered as household waste. this is a point of vigilance to which i draw your attention.
in writing. this review is an opportunity to put in place a policy to limit the extraction of natural resources while optimising recycling. but we must remain pragmatic and realistic about the direction we want to give european policies. going too far, too fast, without analysing what is feasible will only strengthen euroscepticism and undermine what we are trying to build. we must propose high but attainable targets and a calculation method that is applicable. what we are voting on today is in the right direction, because we are putting in place a real logic in this area with a harmonisation of definitions, a stimulation of waste prevention, reuse and the secondary raw materials market. we also mention an important line of thinking on the consideration of industrial and commercial waste. i would like to return to the fight against food waste. the basis for the establishment of a real policy to combat waste is laid down in this package, and i welcome it: a proposal for a european definition, the consideration of a specific hierarchy and the call for the establishment of a common methodology.
mr president, this directive, drawn up - it is true, in a state of emergency - after the paris attacks, completely misses its stated purpose, because everyone knows that terrorists and criminals - as has been said by other speakers - obviously do not buy their weapons legally. the only ones to be penalized will therefore be the hundreds of thousands of sports shooters, collectors and hunters who will be registered and registered, whereas in many of our countries they are already controlled and sometimes even subject to multiple constraints that amount to persecution. some people are happy that the compromise is better than the commission's original text. we have avoided the widespread looting and the final destruction of historical weapons, but we have come very close. the text is essentially ideological. the aim is to make it appear that the european union is fighting terrorism, whereas its policies are promoting it. i say 'ideological' because its principle is an obvious hatred of gun owners, even when they are honest citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the so-called linear economy, as industrialized societies have known it since the end of the 18th century - extract, manufacture, consume, throw away - is living its last moments, its last moments. at the beginning of the 21st century, this model is no longer viable, due to its impact on climate and the scarcity of resources. only the transition to a circular economy will enable us to meet these challenges. as soon as possible, we need to establish a new economic paradigm based on the 3 r's: reduce consumption of resources, reuse and recycle. such a change in the economic paradigm obviously requires ambitious policies based on a sound legislative framework. that is why i fully support the ambitious objectives of the circular economy legislative package that we adopted today at noon, led by our colleague simona bonafè.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, there are certainly all the pretexts in this house to attack the new american president, whom you condemn to death, just as you are constantly hurling anathemas at the russian president on the grounds that he is pursuing a family policy in his country that does not suit you. i understand your frustration at seeing your model of society rejected, and i'm glad of it. the united states will no longer seek to impose on the rest of the world, through ngos such as international family planning, the political norms inherited from the cultural revolution of may 1968. and that's good news. the american desire to upset traditional family structures and its aggressive promotion of urban and global abortion was not acceptable. but the european union clearly lacks this wisdom. mr. trump's reinstatement of the "mexico policy" adopted by republican presidents since reagan and banning funding to pro-abortion ngos is a sign that our old world is crumbling and it scares you. so much so that the french socialist government felt obliged to pass a law banning websites that simply presented solutions other than abortion. moreover, i did not hear, at that time, the usual champions of tolerance expressing their indignation at this obvious attack on freedom of expression. but to teach mr. trump a lesson, the left, its cohort of ideological associations and the soft right are all getting into the act. but it is the strictest right of the united states to choose its own criteria for funding ngos. the european institutions, together with the media and politicized associations, must not use this case to harm the democratically elected american president, i remind you. it is the same people who constantly invoke international law to force states to submit to libertarian dogma, which in this case ignores both the sovereignty of states and international commitments. at a time when nearly 50 million abortions are performed each year worldwide, reducing the use of abortion should really become a public health objective, as stipulated in the international commitments made at the cairo conference in 1994. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam member, it has not escaped your attention that i am a woman and a french member of the european parliament. what i see is that in my country, for the last 20 years, there have been 200,000 abortions a year and that, despite all the information campaigns, these abortions have not decreased. i also tell you that there has been a lot of information campaigns and that, contrary to what you say - and this is a falsehood - we are not against the right to abortion, nor against the right to information. i am simply saying that we are in favour of the right to inform women of the other possibilities open to them. moreover, since you talk a lot about international law, i would remind you that france and most of the european union countries have an obligation under international law, in relation to the cairo convention, to support children before and after birth, and to take appropriate measures for women, precisely to try not to have an abortion. that's what i said, nothing more, nothing less.
mr president, it is my turn to be very concerned about this global gag rule, this global gag rule that president trump has just revived in the most severe and sinister way possible, much more severe than any of his predecessors. with the entry into force of this global gag rule, international organisations, international associations dealing with family planning, developing actions in the field of sexual and reproductive health may be deprived of any funding from the united states of america. the alarm bells were immediately sounded by a whole series of organisations, by major associations in africa, asia, latin america, by the united nations population fund, by the large association save the children: hundreds of thousands of women, young girls, little girls are at risk of being deprived of access to health care or family planning, who could be forced to face again the hell of clandestine abortions which are, as we know, terribly dangerous to the lives and health of women and young girls. more generally, with these budget cuts, a whole series of preventive actions against, for example, the aids virus or the zika virus, could be threatened. it is therefore a question of meeting our responsibilities. it is up to the european union and its member states to continue to develop humanitarian action and a development policy that takes into account the need to promote action in favour of reproductive and sexual health throughout the world.
madam president, the global muzzle rule was one of trump's first executive orders. he decided not only to reintroduce this draconian regulation but also to broaden its scope. this rule now applies not only to family planning organisations but also to all ngos which, as part of a holistic health approach, provide or refer people to sexual and reproductive health services. so this is much more than just a drop in us government subsidies. ngos must commit not to speak or propose abortion, even from their own funds. this rule will deprive any organization of funds that refuses to comply with it and self-censor, hence the notion of gagging. the result: €600 million over the next four years is at stake, according to the netherlands, which has launched a campaign and fundraising campaign. we support this campaign and this fundraising, and we are pushing for the european union and the member states that have remained silent to also provide these funds. it is freedom of choice that is being stifled, it is the lives of millions of women that are threatened, so what initiative do you intend to take, commissioner, to provide a collective and solidary response?
for the gue/ngl group madam president, once again, i do not like the way we are working on this. through this debate, we are in theory giving a mandate to our delegation which will be attending the human rights council (hrc) meeting next week. we are unable to prepare a resolution which takes account of the agenda of the sessions of this hrc. we may have a resolution, but it is modelled on the council's position, which has also failed to take account of the priorities on the agenda of the hrc. i noted a surprising paragraph on the importance for the european union of international refugee law and, more broadly, the human rights of migrants. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected. the council recalls the importance of the interdependence of human rights, but does not mention the main subjects of the echr in this field: terrorists and human rights, human rights and the environment, democracy and the rule of law and human rights. the development of an international legal instrument binding on business is also a key instrument, in particular in responding to the climate emergency. but we now know that all the member states are opposed to it. there is nothing about the durban declaration and the fight against racism and nothing about palestine. on all these issues, it would be important for the european union to have a clear position, reflecting a truly universal commitment and not just its priorities. this is the universalism of human rights.
madam president, the european union has rightly expressed concern at the un human rights council about the restrictions on freedom of expression in several countries around the world, particularly in turkey. but she should also question her own practices. more and more meps are being prosecuted for crimes of opinion. but almost every time the european parliament waives their immunity. as a result, their freedom of expression is no longer guaranteed, and some states have understood this. we saw france prosecuting marine le pen for tweets against daesh and qatar attacking florian philippot for anti-qatar remarks. today the european parliament even nailed a polish mep to the stake as punishment for the views he expressed in this house. more importantly, the union now wants to organise the repression of hate speech. let us not be fooled, it will be one more way of trying to silence her opponents whom she calls populists. the union plays a double game: it claims to be the protector of freedom of expression but it violates it when it suits it. the union does not deserve to be saved.
the motions for resolutions to be tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 march 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on official controls and other official activities to ensure the enforcement of food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products, amending regulations (ec) no 999/2001, (ec) no 396/2005, (ec) no 1069/2009, (ec) no 1107/2009, (eu) no 1151/2012, (eu) no 652/2014, (eu) 2016/429 and (eu) 2016/2031, council regulations (ec) no 1/2005 and (ec) no 1099/2005 and council directives 98/58/ec and 98/58/ec, as well as council directives 89/648/eec, 89/648/eec, 89/648/eec, 89/648/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/646/eec, 89/666/eec, 89/666/eec and 89/646/eec, and council regulations (ec) no 90/4256/eec, 89/662/eec, 89/666/eec and 89/709/eec, as well as council regulation (ec) no 106/67/704/ec, 2008/42/ec, 2009/42/ec and 2009/42/ec.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i regret that mr moscovici spoke before he heard the truth about the european commission. the code of conduct (business taxation) group was set up in 1998, officially to identify legislation promoting tax avoidance and tax avoidance. the findings of the tax committee in 2015 clearly showed that this project-driven group was a total failure and its work was dead letter. the result: almost twenty years of lost time in the fight against fraud and tax optimisation, and above all hundreds of billions lost by the treasuries of european countries. for france alone, this is €17 billion a year in tax revenue shortfall, especially in the period when mr moscovici was himself minister for the economy and finance. i understand better why he left. so it is he who is responsible for the breakdown of the european union and not marine le pen who simply defends france. the countries that are victims of these tax evasions are paying for the duplicity of jean-claude juncker in luxembourg and the hypocrisy of national leaders. it is true that it is difficult to run two leaps at once: globalism and the drift of deregulation. patriots are eager to hear what the eu has to say, given the risk of a new tax haven with the uk after brexit. we want the people to stop drinking to the multinationals and your european oligarchy.
mr president, in a period when there are few reasons for satisfaction, we welcome the first results of the opening of a huge project: the application of equal competition and tax justice between companies. with the taxe committees and now pana, chaired by werner langen, parliament has been able to amplify and relay the demand for transparency and justice expressed by citizens after scandals such as luxleaks. without having any legal competence, our parliament has kept the finance ministers under pressure by sending them on missions of inquiry, by holding hearings, by holding interparliamentary conferences in brussels and in national capitals, thus preparing the ground for the examination of the european commission's proposals. the first results are undeniable: the case has progressed more in two years than in two decades. the obligation to inform each other of rulings, the unanimous adoption of the oecd recommendations, the anti-tax evasion directive, the anti-money laundering directive are important advances, to which we must add the end of banking secrecy. but as werner langen emphatically said, this effort is only worthwhile if it is carried through to the end. in particular, three issues will be decisive for the success of this political initiative within the framework of the union. first, the harmonization of the tax base of multinational companies, the ccctb project. for us in parliament, these two directives are the two legs that the system needs to walk on. parliament will be ready by the end of the summer. secondly, a common list of non-cooperative countries, from which all the consequences must be drawn. thirdly, the promotion of the code of conduct group at a political level. it is time for our finance ministers - and it is your responsibility, mr president of the council - to show that tax justice is a priority for them that goes beyond the horizon of their heads of office.
mr president, tomorrow the luxembourg court of appeal will give its verdict in the luxleaks case. antoine deltour, raphaël halet and édouard perrin have shed light on the tax agreements between luxembourg and large companies. these tax-optimisation practices deprive the european union and the member states of tens of billions of euros each year. since these revelations, the three whistleblowers have had to undergo a long legal process. this case shows that there is a need for european protection of whistleblowers. this is one of the recommendations made by the taxe and econ committees almost two years ago. after many requests and initiatives, including from the green group, the european commission has finally launched a public consultation on a european status for whistleblowers. this is a late initiative, but it is welcome. this is a first step towards effective whistleblower protection. it must be horizontal and sufficiently wide to allow, in particular, the possibility of raising the alarm both internally and externally, for example to the media. in addition, we are still awaiting the publication of a european blacklist of tax havens. the member states, through the 'code of conduct' group, are weakening the criteria to be taken into account for the establishment of this list. this is unacceptable, especially since all this is being negotiated in a totally opaque way. there are two urgent issues: reforming the code of conduct group by imposing transparency on the debate, and maintaining strict criteria for the definition of tax havens, otherwise the blacklist will be an illusion when citizens expect concrete action.
mr president, this meeting is an opportunity to take stock of a matter which, after all, is of considerable interest to our fellow citizens. two messages to the council: firstly, as you can see, to make progress in these areas, it is better to have the european parliament at its side. so when the council concludes on the hybrids issue, the famous atad 2 issue, by saying that it will adopt the directive after the european parliament has delivered its opinion, when in reality it does not, i think that is not good practice. even if we are not always formally in co-decision, the expectation of our fellow citizens is that good governance in the council should be based on an informed opinion, with the contribution of the european parliament, which, i believe, is often a good vehicle for progress in the council. the same applies to the code of conduct, which has been mentioned by many colleagues. i remember when this code of conduct was first implemented. but, ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest, those were different times. it was a time when the question of cooperation, harmonization and the fight against tax evasion was still in its infancy. but now we know how important it is for us to achieve results in this area. as the commissioner has said, there seems to me to be a great deal of room for manoeuvre from the council's point of view. i have the impression that the maltese presidency could be one of the presidencies during which we could make progress in this area, for more transparency with governments that are really committed to being actors in this code of conduct, which would not simply be an alibi for the council.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are only at the first stage of the 2018 budget procedure, the stage where parliament sets out its vision, expresses its expectations and formulates its perspectives and proposals. after the financial and economic crises, i should say human ones, after brexit, it is no longer time for hesitation, but for action. citizens are tired of statements that are not followed by effects. they can no longer tolerate the double language of demanding that europe act in new areas (migration, investment recovery, the fight against youth unemployment, borders, security), even though the budget remains the same. they expect us to be responsible: either we give the european union the budget it needs to exercise its powers, or the member states stop talking nonsense. europe cannot act effectively unless it is given the means to do so. nationalism and the far right thrive on this misery all over europe. europe is in danger of dying from this charade. in the 2018 budgetary guidelines, two examples: defence and the interrail pass. we are asking for additional resources for any new policy. in this report, after recalling the political priorities set by the union, the european parliament has been honest in demanding a guarantee that all payments are made on time and that new own resources are added to this budget. the socialists and democrats will be particularly vigilant in mobilising all available means to combat youth unemployment, invest in the future for quality jobs and the security of our fellow citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to give the european project the means to achieve its ambitions. the persistence of the economic, social and migration crises is currently weakening the european union, whose budgetary capacity remains far too limited. the current challenges remain numerous: youth employment, socioeconomic convergence, territorial balances, migration, security and defence. they must be dealt with in line with the aspirations of our fellow citizens who expect us to be solidary, efficient and progressive. but this strong commitment will not be achieved without a budget capable of supporting public action. if synergies are to be established with the private sector, particularly in order to support our smes, it would be dishonest to give up customs duties in favour of a liberal mindset, which too often forgets that value creation must remain shared. financial instruments, which all too often replace budget lines, cannot be exempted from democratic control. we must avoid, ladies and gentlemen, the socialisation of losses and the privatisation of profits.
madam president, commissioner, you have our full support for a humanitarian aid programme. but we have to ask ourselves a series of questions. why have we destroyed the local economies of production? is it not true that our free trade agreements and our recent agreements contribute even more to this when we see in fifty years' time dependence on agri-foodstuffs? has not systematic political interference, the manipulation of power, but also the policy of free trade, the 'free frog in the free henhouse' been introduced? in particular, do we not have a responsibility in this partition of sudan which i opposed and which led us to war? do we not also have a responsibility in this yemen war that has not been denounced, with our ally, a so-called ally - this is not my ally - which is saudi arabia and its abuses against humanity, also in nigeria?
the question is "blue cardboard". i apologise for being a little late, but given my colleague's praise of 5g and the desire for europe to be a leader, which i can share with him, i simply want to ask him a question: is it possible for europe to be a leader when it does not currently have the software and hardware? so today, can we be the leader of a technology when we don't have the industrial construction of that technology?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this text - and i very much appreciate the rapporteur's comments - is not really necessary, because spectrum harmonisation is already being achieved by the international telecommunications union and the european conference of postal and telecommunications administrations, which are intergovernmental organisations and not brussels. the commission therefore wants to deny once again the powers of the states. the commission's proposal is in fact a first step towards its european spectrum project, towards a single regulator and towards the allocation of frequencies at european level. however, the amendments tabled by my colleagues, the flexibility granted to the states in the negotiated amendments, the time limits for implementing the applications, the reaffirmation of the right of the states, all these will lead us to abstain on the legislative resolution.
mr president, as everyone knows, before the treaty of rome there was the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, which is one of the three founding treaties of today's european union. the result in my country is clear: there is no more coal, there is no more steel. then there were the two treaties of rome, the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, known as the euratom treaty. the result is clear today, there is no longer any cooperation on atomic energy, since germany has decided to give up atomic energy. the treaty is therefore effectively obsolete. then there was the famous treaty, the great treaty of rome, the common market, the common agricultural market in particular, which was to guarantee, with reasonable protection throughout the union, prices for our farmers which were above market and world prices. the result is clear: in my country, four out of five farms have disappeared and farmers commit suicide every day. so, in the face of such failure, we should of course think. mr juncker has made an interesting effort of reflection with the five scenarios he proposes. i would personally lean towards the fourth, which is to do less, to make precise, quantified programmes on which citizens can put a cost/benefit balance. unfortunately, mr juncker's scenarios are part of a framework of treaties which will not really allow this development to take place.
mr president, mr tusk, allow me first of all, on behalf of the french delegation of the epp group, to congratulate you and to welcome your election as president of the council. some have tried to oppose it by using europe as a variable to adjust national political egoism, and this is precisely what the citizens no longer want. on the eve of the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, our european project is at a crossroads. the council must play its proper role, that of harmonizing the position of the member states in the service of a europe that is strong and, above all, respected in the world. but this strong political will must be consistent. yes, the multi-speed europe is a realistic project, unlike the one-track europe that the united kingdom, for example, would have wanted. far from excluding or dividing, i am convinced that this is the only way for member states who wish to do so to finally be able to make progress in priority areas: security, border control, immigration, defence, economic and monetary union. let us not be fooled, much time has passed without political action by the member states in favour of a europe which protects and, above all, which wins. for my country, it is not mr hollande who will be responsible for this uproar. in 2012, when he ran for president, he wanted to reorient europe. with what result? i don't know. he is now playing the pro-european wise man, just days before the end of a catastrophic mandate. among the priorities defined by the council last week, i shall focus on the fight against unfair competition. the defence of the competitiveness of our enterprises is a fundamental issue and, in the face of this challenge, a half-hearted response is not acceptable and will not be accepted by enterprises and their employees, who are the backbone of our economy. the dream marketers promise companies and their employees a singing tomorrow, thanks to the retreat into oneself. in the united states, donald trump is unconsciously protective. in china, a massive industrial development plan for 2025 is being prepared. no one will be waiting for us to jump. it is up to us to act, to implement a smart trade defence and to promote fair trade in our trade and international relations. yes, the union can regain the trust of its citizens if a courageous and realistic political will once again guides its action.
mr president, mr tusk, you have been reinforced in quite exceptional circumstances as president of the european council. this requires and must make you a driving force of the european union, looking to the past, taking inspiration from the founding fathers. of course, your agenda is no longer that of the founding fathers, but nevertheless, let us learn from the mistakes of the past and look at the way forward since the founding fathers handed us the talisman of the european union. there is one thing that has hardly been discussed this morning and which surprises me, and that is the question of european sovereignty, political union, democracy, rights and values. this is what you and president juncker are guaranteeing, and this must be strongly reaffirmed on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of rome. but beyond that, we will have to go into a little more detail to guide the debate, to help ensure that in the capitals where elections are to be held, the arbitrations are made to say what we want, how we want to respond to the white paper proposed by jean-claude juncker and that cannot be the internal market, just the internal market. no one has ever dreamed of a single internal market. in the same way, i no longer believe that the euro can be sustained by the coordination of economic policies alone. it's been going on for 15 years. it is time to move towards greater integration in the service of citizens and the common project. so, mr president tusk, you are here as president of the european council, before the european parliament, and do not forget that when you speak of citizens, that also implies that this parliament is at your side, perhaps, in drafting this rome declaration.
mr president, no, the european dream of 1957 is not dead. europe is emerging today as both a necessity and a challenge. let us first build a european defence. secondly, let us continue to build an effective policy to combat terrorism, against cyberterrorism, a real scourge for us europeans, but also for the arab world. finally, let us live up to the human dignity that must prevail in the field of migration. our european dream in 2017 is 'a change in the economic paradigm for new growth, fair trade in our international agreements, tax equity, social progress, the fight against climate change through the development of a circular economy and renewable energies'. that's the challenge. this is our way. this is our dream. rome was a start. on 25 march, rome will mark a new founding step in the new europe. it is up to us to fight the nationalists by reconnecting with the hope of our founding fathers, jean monnet yesterday, jacques delors today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one area of public action at european level which has a reason for being today more than ever, it is the field of security. terrorism knows no borders, as we have seen with the tragedies in paris, brussels, nice and berlin. with each attack, the whole of europe is affected. it is attacked because our continent has rules and values which the barbarians would like to see collapse in the name of chaos, terror and above all horror. we must give clear answers to the islamic fundamentalists, among whom are potential terrorists. in 2016, we did this by strengthening the control of our external borders with a strengthened border and coast guard agency, or by introducing the pnr system for air passengers. these measures are in the public interest, and yet even mrs le pen opposed this measure, which she considered to be liberticidal. the citizens will appreciate, once again, his inconsistencies. in 2017, our efforts must be accelerated. but it is above all the responsibility of the member states to act together. in 2015, our colleague rachida dati, in her report on radicalisation leading to terrorism, called for specific actions to combat this scourge. but have we really taken action? finally, the european states have a duty to join forces in external operations. a european defence alliance must emerge, because all member states must contribute to the effort that our armies are making on the ground. the european commission is therefore responsible for promoting a dynamic of cooperation and enhanced coordination within the european union. it is only by joining forces that we can protect our citizens and territories more effectively.
mr president, a year ago brussels was struck by horror. after the tributes, we were promised action, but too little was done to fill the gaps revealed by these attacks, especially the gaps in the exchange of relevant information between our countries. most member states are still opposed to mandatory and automatic exchange, which is essential. we were promised action. states have been nothing but reactionaries and political manipulators, not hesitating to play the fear card to pass very intrusive surveillance laws. these are the words of the un special rapporteur on the right to privacy, who has just published a report denouncing the risks and ineffectiveness of surveillance laws in recent years. the real lessons have not yet been learned. how much time, abuse and drama will it take for them to finally be?
madam president, today we are thinking in particular of the victims in brussels and elsewhere. these tragic attacks have shown us the need for closer cooperation, more europe, more solidarity. the european agenda on security is a necessary step towards the creation of a european area of internal security and all actors must play their part in ensuring that the union does everything in its power to ensure the security of citizens. and it is clear that the commitments made by the member states have yet to be translated into concrete action. parliament is investing heavily in the fight against terrorism and ensuring that the delicate balance between security and respect for freedoms is respected. one doesn't go without the other. that is why we do not accept the idea of setting up a committee of inquiry into terrorism. the increase in security must not be at the expense of freedoms. i would like to conclude with the words of jens stoltenberg, the norwegian prime minister at the time of the 2011 utøya attacks: 'we will respond to terror with more democracy, more openness and more tolerance'.
madam president, i naturally join in the tribute paid to the victims of the brussels attacks, whose anniversary we will be commemorating in a few days' time, and i welcome the actions undertaken by the european commission in an area of internal security and counter-terrorism in which its powers are, let us remember, limited compared with those of the member states. let me mention two other attacks that also took place in march: march 2004 in madrid, which remains to this day the deadliest islamist attack on european soil, and march 2012 in montauban and toulouse, where mohamed merah murdered french soldiers and jewish children. it so happens that these actions have historically marked the return of jihadist terrorism on european soil, and it so happens that at each of these historical stages, the phenomenon was not anticipated and was even underestimated. so much has been said today and in our last debate in plenary on the directive on the practical arrangements for combating terrorism, and i would like to stress the importance of anticipation and strategic analysis, because this is a fundamental element in preventing the plasticity of terrorism, which will strike places that, until now, had been spared and will reactivate networks that have not yet been identified.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by iuliu winkler, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european self-certification mechanism, under supply chain due diligence, for responsible importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores and gold originating in conflict-affected or high-risk areas (com (2014) 0111 c7-0092/2014 2014/0059 cod)) (a8-0141/2015).
madam president, we are obviously in favour of good practice, certification, self-regulation and responsible sectors. these good feelings, how can one not be for? they engage in words, they always please, but do they really change reality? the conflict in the drc was triggered by an operation called kabila, in which, starting from uganda and rwanda, the drc was destabilized. at the same time, contracts were signed with american companies for control of the country's resources. the responsibility of our states must be exposed, because it corresponds to the reality of history. it is also about giving african states the full capacity to remain in control of their resources. it is also a matter of denouncing, in our country, the involvement of our states and their offices in this traffic.
madam president, commissioner, the blood ore, as i have just said, is everywhere and nowhere. they are everywhere, because they are the source of violent conflicts in africa, but also in asia. they are ubiquitous in everyday consumer products and, at the same time, invisible to european consumers. i think we have played our part fully, both because we have imposed this duty of care, but also because - it has not been said until now - we have responded to the call of our african partners who asked for our support and, finally, because we have taken into account this new trend of european consumers, who want to make their consumption a civic act, and when i see the representative of the national front who speaks of good feelings - this is not what we are talking about, we are making politics. of course, there are some regrets - mrs maria arena said so - we would have wanted mandatory certification for the whole chain, but it had to go through the narrow doors of compromise. i think it is a good text and we can be proud of the work we have done, because at the time when the united states was indeed tearing down the dodd-frank act, we showed the way, that of a europe that was true to its values.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 march 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the european parliament and the council have agreed to the adoption of a new regulation on the european parliament and the council establishing a european parliament and a european council for the period from 1 january 2017 to 31 december 2020 and amending the regulation on the european parliament and the council establishing a european parliament and a council for the period from 1 january 2020 to 31 december 2020 (oj l 347, 20.12.2018, p.
madam president, this oral question is indeed an opportunity to emphasize the very important role of political parties in a democratic society. without political parties, all individual adventures are possible and we unfortunately know where this can lead. our european democracy is no exception to this rule. it must accompany the representative european political parties, since public funding also guarantees the independence and freedom of the organisations. political parties are there to inform public opinion and the media, to bring their values to bear on human, economic, social and other issues. they have to have a real business in order to be considered legitimate. everyone here has mentioned voltaire and indeed freedom of expression is part of our values, but it is also part of the constituent elements of the rule of law, but the rule of law is also a guarantor of respect for human values and must punish acts of hatred, racism and intolerance.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, today i am here speaking on behalf of high representative mogherini as she could not be in the chamber for this debate. however, allow me to remark that the high representative appreciates the work of mr gahler and mr gonzález pons on the report, and her views and those of parliament coincide in many areas. the report addresses critical issues that you have been working on during the implementation of the security and defence aspects of the eu global strategy (eugs). the conclusions reached on the eugs implementation define common strategic priorities and a common vision in security and defence and has set out how csdp, as part of wider eu efforts, can contribute to tackling today’s and tomorrow’s multifaceted security challenges and protect european citizens. i know that high representative mogherini would like to underline, at the very beginning, that she attaches critical importance to working together with the european parliament on defence issues as natural allies in this effort. as you know, on 6 march, high representative mogherini presented the progress achieved in the security and defence implementation of the eugs to the foreign affairs council. the council conclusions adopted served as the first progress report to the march european council according to the tasking received in december last year. on 9 march, the heads of state and government welcomed the work done and asked to continue with even greater determination and speed. the high representative is pleased to report that, despite very tight timelines, significant progress has been made since december. currently there is work being done on the three pillars of the package: not only on the global strategic implementation of security and defence, but also on the european defence action plan from the commission, eu-nato cooperation and the follow-up to the warsaw joint declaration. this work is even more important at a time when expectations and questions are raised more or less openly inside the european union, as well as outside, about the eu’s commitment and ability to act as a security provider. there is no better answer to such expectations and questions than real, tangible progress on concrete issues. on military planning and conduct capability, the foreign affairs council last week agreed to establish a permanent military planning and conduct capability for the european union’s non-executive military missions. it will be established within the european military staff (eums) and will operate under the responsibility and command of the director-general of the military staff. at present, there are three such missions: in mali, central african republic and somalia, which are currently only led by headquarters in the field. this decision will also contribute to enhanced civilian or military cooperation. experts from the military planning and conduct capability (mpcc) and its civilian counterpart, the cpcc, will form a joint support coordination cell to facilitate mutual assistance and coordination. the new structure will be operational in the coming weeks. on defence cooperation: the european external action service also has a clear mandate from the european council to strengthen defence cooperation. ambitions need to be underpinned by sufficient resources, both nationally and at eu level. it is equally important to make more effective use of the defence budgets by reducing fragmentations. the 28 member states, for example, have 154 weapons systems in use. the united states has only 27. moreover, around 80% of defence investment in europe is still spent on a national basis. in the report, reference is also made to the costs of non-european defence. the european defence agency is working hard to strengthen defence cooperation, and the commission is also mobilising its instruments. it is clear that defence capabilities will remain member state-owned. progress in this field, through eu instruments, will also benefit nato, as there will be a single set of forces. therefore, these efforts will be pursued further in a way that ensures coherence with parallel work within nato. it is important to note as well that any success will have an impact on transatlantic burden-sharing. but let us be clear: europeans have to do this for themselves. this is about protecting our citizens. the main current efforts to deepen defence cooperation in developing capabilities are centred on the coordinated annual review on defence, permanent structured cooperation, as well as the european defence action plan. the coordinated annual review on defence should be a member states-driven mechanism. it will contribute to the increased transparency of national defence plans and help make cooperation the norm. based on member states’ guidance, a set of concrete modalities will be prepared. the council has also been tasked with further work on the permanent structured cooperation, an important tool also highlighted in your report. permanent structured cooperation is about enabling those member states who are willing to undertake more binding commitments towards one another to do so. countries wishing to be part of it will need to make concrete commitments and join concrete cooperation projects. while it is open to all member states and maximum inclusiveness is pursued, there is no automaticity or a free ride. permanent structured cooperation can help develop defence capabilities but also to pool and share existing military assets so that we can make more efficient use of them in our operations. member states will work on the common commitments as well as the projects and initiatives they can provide to the permanent structured cooperation. these projects need to be ambitious and support the overarching aim of preparing the most demanding missions. on the european defence action plan, it proposes actions to support member states’ efforts in delivering capabilities through greater cooperation and fostering a strong, competitive and innovative european defence industrial base, including by setting up a european defence fund. these are very important initiatives that also show the added value of the european union to enhance the effectiveness and the performance of our defence sector. once again, on behalf of high representative mogherini, i would like to reiterate that further work on the eu battle groups will be undertaken, as these are key military assets. yet the european union has never deployed a battle group, despite the fact that it could have been useful on several occasions. this will be referred back to council in may. there is also work to be done to improve situational awareness, reinforcing the structures that sustain these efforts, in particular the intelligence and situation centre (intcen). on the capacity-building and support of security and development, a proactive approach is being promoted to identify concrete projects while supporting a positive outcome on the legislative process including the european parliament. the report also highlights the importance of providing appropriate equipment to the forces that the eu trains. it is important to work together across the nexus security or development to achieve peaceful societies protected by armed forces under civilian control.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, having failed to establish a defence europe, the six founding countries opted for the common market. sixty years after the signing of the treaty of rome, the time has come to put the defence project back on the table. in a world which has become more dangerous, we look to europe to protect us, including through military capability. our colleagues gahler and gonzáles pons have shown very well that the coming of a common defence depends on the political will of our heads of state or government, and not on legal considerations. what do we see? states which, for the most part, have neither the critical size nor the military tool adapted to the threats of the 21st century, but which are reluctant to make the choice of efficiency and mutualisation, which are reluctant to make the choice of europe. i want to see this in the preparatory action on defence research, for which we have included 25 million in the 2017 budget, which is a small amount at the expense of other programmes and pilot projects, 25 million where the americans spend more than 60 billion. the day after donald trump's election, at a time when the continental states are increasing their military capabilities, our future in defence is european. politically, europe must assert itself as a world power.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, thank you and congratulations to our rapporteurs for this useful reminder that everything we should have done is contained in a treaty which has been signed and ratified by all the member states and whose implementation we see it every day is more than lacking. unfortunately, it takes mr trump's statements for europeans to wake up to the fact that all the parameters of the strategic equation existed before trump's election to warn us that if we do not do this work, for our own security, no one will do it for us. so it's really time to wake up. i regret, however, that the member states are still dragging their feet. of course, the progress of recent years has been so small that we are now happy to see any progress, however modest. so indeed - as you have pointed out - a military planning and conduct capacity is emerging: thirty officers to supervise non-executive missions, that is to say modest training missions in mali, the central african republic and somalia. they are useful, but they are not decisive. i have just returned from mali and it is not our training mission - unfortunately, however professional it may be - that will make the difference in relation to the instability that this country is experiencing. what i do know, however, is that it is the french troops - once again - who are in the front line and that european solidarity is expressed very timidly, and that the european countries sending troops to mali assign them mostly non-combatant duties, with the least possible problems. that is not european solidarity and that is not how we are going to move forward. so the qualitative leap, particularly in terms of operation, that we need to make does not exist. on the industrial side, i hear about the costs of non-europe, but the cost of non-europe for our own defence industry is when the equipment exists in europe and some countries continue to buy off the shelf in the united states. it is also a blow from non-europe that will have to be highlighted one day. let us not forget that security is the first of the european solidarities. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". it is not exactly a subject covered in the report, but if you ask me, i do not believe in a european intelligence super agency. that's not what we need. what we need is to strengthen information exchange platforms. a full agency would be a new bureaucratic monster, with no guarantee of operational efficiency. what is needed is that our national agencies, which are good, efficient and professional, cooperate more with each other, exchange more with each other, but certainly not a new european superstructure with very limited operational usefulness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving towards a defence europe, as our parliament wants, as britain leaves the european union. we want a europe of defence by welcoming the departure of one of the continent's only solid armies. in fact, there will be no defence europe under the current institutions. why would you do that? to defend ourselves, we must see the friend and the enemy, and we send soldiers to the borders of russia, support the jihadists in syria and libya and therefore do not understand our own interests. to defend ourselves, we must be able to fight ourselves, and we do not have a european military-industrial complex, and europe tends to destroy national complexes in order to include them in the transatlantic complexes. to defend ourselves, we must want to live and we leave our doors wide open to mafia and criminal networks. then, no, there will be no europe of defence, there will be either the destruction of national defenses by europe or nations defending themselves against new threats.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work on this text. we have said this morning that the future of europe depends on the future of defence. it is as much a security necessity - our neighbourhood is becoming increasingly worrying and terrorism is returning to our soil - as it is a political necessity, because europe needs concrete and successful projects to make its added value undeniable. without this, it will be even more difficult to defend europe, the most beautiful and perhaps the only great political project we have before us. this report, today - that is all it is - is a wake-up call. europe already has a wide range of instruments, legal tools, facilities for military cooperation, but, to top it all off, nothing is used. no joint military groups, no joint headquarters, no effective sharing of the financial burden of military activities. the conclusion of all this is simple: our problem in really building a europe of defence is to use it, to animate it, to give substance to a substance which already exists. in other words, the only thing europe lacked was political will, political courage and the unwavering will to defend the european people. this is the challenge, this is the message, this is the horizon that the european parliament must send to the heads of state and government for the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, i would like to conclude with a message on the realisation of a defence europe. it is supported by two quite remarkable reports. after a momentum, which was also led by several countries in the years 2000 to 2007, we recognize that europe's defence has stagnated. with the emergence of new geostrategic and geopolitical threats and challenges - particularly on our european soil - it has become clear that europe, in order to protect its own citizens and to exert its influence on the world diplomatic stage, must organise itself in defence matters. instead of seeking to innovate at all costs, let us make practical use of the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty, which have not yet been called into question, as the reports suggest. firstly, the commitment by all the member states to increase their defence budgets to 2% of gdp, and i would stress that there is no reason why defence appropriations should not be included in the maastricht criteria, which would be only fair to those countries which are now doing all the work for others. there is the establishment of a military capacity for planning and conducting operations which has been too long denied by any of the member countries of europe, there is also the improvement of cooperation with nato or the improvement of research and development. these are the concrete efforts that are needed if europe is to become a real political power on the world stage. the problem, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is whether it will really have the political will and courage to do so.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report on an integrated european union policy for the arctic is undoubtedly very well-intentioned. whether it is to preserve the ecosystem of this northern region, to guarantee the rights of indigenous peoples or to support scientific research, we cannot but agree. however, the increased involvement of the european union in this part of the world, particularly through the arctic council, is undesirable, firstly because the european union's action in this area is less legitimate than that of the states at international level and secondly because it would diminish the influence of certain member states which are historically active or, like my country, france, observer members. finally, this text deems it necessary to reaffirm - and i quote - the union's interests vis-à-vis russia. as is often the case, the european union is pointing the finger at the eu, when it should be our natural partner.
in writing. if we are here tonight to talk about future activities in the arctic, it is first and foremost a tragedy for our planet, which we are facing against the backdrop of bad luck. while there is no denying that a new area of human activity is emerging, it is imperative that we do not repeat the same mistakes as on land, or even sometimes at sea. it is imperative that this area be dealt with in a concerted manner, between all the political actors and possible future users at sea. in particular, with regard to fisheries, the eu will have to defend in international fora the precautionary approach and sustainable development it applies to its waters. we have just adopted the freezing of the trace of deep-sea fishing activities in european waters, and for some years now in the north sea, but we will also have to consider it as a protection measure in the arctic. but beware, preserving the pristine seabed of deep-sea fishing will make no sense if other activities destroy it in a much more radical and irreversible way. a consistent and equitable approach to all uses will be required.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, your reports on the accession process of third countries to the european union follow one another and are similar. in fact, you are constantly interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, to unify it under the aegis of this ideology. this report on montenegro is no exception. it is a joke that you denounce in this report alleged russian interference in the electoral processes in montenegro, when, according to the confession of the montenegrin special prosecutor milivoje katnić, the intelligence services of friendly countries in europe, and in particular the united states and great britain, helped montenegro in the investigation into the alleged coup attempt by the opposition during the last legislative elections in october. the question is whether you are not more interested in challenging russia and encircling it through nato than in the democratic process in montenegro. finally, in view of the observations you make on the social, economic and political situation in this country, i really wonder how you can continue to call for the acceleration of negotiations with a view to a forthcoming accession to the union. we can only worry about the state of democracy in montenegro when it is really and fully respected in the union.
madam president, robert mugabe has been president of the republic of zimbabwe for almost 30 years. a true autocrat, he has the characteristics of the thuggish politicians who dominate africa. a self-proclaimed anti-white racist, mr. mugabe has turned his country into a living hell. the fact that the population enjoys few individual rights is not the worst of all evils. famine, inflation and police repression follow one another at regular intervals. in this terrible context, the censorship of the opponents is intolerable. arrested as soon as he got off a plane last february, pastor evan mawarire was eventually released on bail. he is considering running in the next election. robert mugabe must drop the charges of attempted sabotage of the government and incitement to violence against mr mawarire. more generally, africa cannot develop unless the institutions of its member states develop.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation is ideological and reason does not prevail. i would like to recall the historical context. in february 2014, the western powers signed a document for a democratic transition, the events of maidan were a real coup d'état and there was a break in the rule of law. it is a legal fact. in response, russia occupied crimea which had been given - it must be said - by a decree in 1954 by khrushchev and there was a referendum on free self-determination. we are facing a complicated legal situation because we have on the one hand what we signed, which has not been implemented, and therefore a breach of the rule of law and another breach. i only want to point out that with regard to the occupation of crimea, where there has been genuine self-determination, the human rights situation is no worse today than it was yesterday and that we must therefore be right. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam, i would like to say first of all that no one can dispute this, since there are witnesses that the various movements opposed to the communist system met in my house before the fall of the wall, and that i was therefore an important player in everything related to this anti-communist action. that's history, those are facts. no one can deny it, those who were there can testify. that's the first thing i want to say. in reply to you, i would also like to say that my country, france, the senate and the national assembly, have taken the positions i am now presenting. you must have respect for national policy.
author. mr president, the situation in the philippines is indeed deteriorating. president duterte's war on drugs, since he came to power in june 2016, has killed more than 7,000 people, mostly in poor neighborhoods, by both police forces and armed militias. mr duterte wants to apply, on behalf of the state, the methods he used when he was mayor of davao and which ms de lima justly denounced. successively president of the national human rights commission, minister of justice, president of the senate justice and human rights commission, ms de lima has consistently denounced corruption and extrajudicial executions. she's just been arrested, probably on a fabricated case. human rights defenders, including journalists, are at least subject to threats of intimidation. president duterte has even openly threatened to kill some of them. so yes, it's time to act. yes, ms de lima must be released, protected, and at least given the right to a fair trial, just as the proposal to reinstate the death penalty must be denounced. the union has the means to do so. it is time for it to do so, including by using gsp+ preferences.
mr president, it is well known that senator de lima is a fierce defender of human rights. president rodrigo duterte has repeatedly blamed her for this, as he has repeatedly been in the senator's crosshairs for possible human rights violations. it seems that he is now trying to discredit the senator. in fact, he recently announced that he would publicly destroy it. furthermore, in the current situation, the use of testimonies of criminals still in prison as the main basis for such charges is highly questionable. such undignified maneuvers must be strongly condemned. justice must uphold the values that are ours and the senator's values deserve our absolute respect, in the philippines as elsewhere in the world. so it's a fair trial that's necessary in the senator's favor. whatever the subject, force, even that of governments, can in no way replace justice in a democracy.
mr president, i am voting against this text because it is intended to find out how to circumvent the obligation to pass to a treaty which would be binding on all europeans, before entering into this absurd europe of war which you are preparing. i am alarmed by the binary view contained in this text which, for unknown reasons, opposes a so-called 'asian' area to a 'euro-atlantic' area. i am concerned that you have already set up a military headquarters, especially since the report claims to be preparing us for high-intensity conflict, that is to say war, no more and no less. it also called for the strengthening of nato networks. i think you are completely missing the point of what the european project should be, which is a project for peace. you should ask yourself how europe can be more effective in promoting peace in the world, rather than asking yourself how it will contribute to the widespread wars and the outbreak of hostilities everywhere that europe must prevent at all costs.
mr president, while awaiting a reform of the kind proposed very opportunely by president verhofstadt, parliament cannot leave mr dijsselbloem's renewed contempt for it unanswered. i propose that we apply to him the same principle that we have applied to all the people and companies who have refused to cooperate with the european parliament, with some of its committees and with some of its groups. this principle consists in declaring the person concerned persona non grata on the premises of the parliament and considering that, since he does not wish to come to the plenary, he will never again be admitted to any meeting of the european parliament. i think that is the least we can do.
mr president, thank you for inaugurating this procedure which means that, quite unexpectedly, on a monday at 5 p.m., a perfectly privileged time in this house, a debate on the presidency of the eurogroup will be opened. i am pleased to note the support which mr weber has given to the countries suffering from the actions of the troika. i think it's a day to be greeted.
mr president, i do have something to propose. you should have closed this debate a long time ago. the main thing is the debate we will have tomorrow on what the council and the commission are doing about greece: everyone will be able to express their opinion on the action of the eurogroup on the spot, including those who give it a mandate, that is, within the eurogroup, a number of finance ministers who do not want to conclude the revision of the programme.
mr president, on this debate on venezuela, we have asked several times in the conference of presidents for a debate on the european union and the united states. since mr. trump's election last november, there has been no debate. i think we are putting the plow before the oxen, that is to say, we are interested in venezuela without the point of view of the us administration. today, i think it is necessary that we have a real debate about the future of the united states, especially in south america.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in his state of the union address of 14 september 2016, president juncker said of the european solidarity corps: young people from across the union will be able to offer their help where it will be most useful in responding to crisis situations. i believe that this statement is an admission of failure on the part of the european union, which, since its creation, has only ever talked about solidarity in order to abolish it. how can you seriously, in your text, boast of the union's solidarity when the savage competition it has imposed has devastated thousands of smes, put millions of europeans out of work and enslaved several member states to the economic and budgetary dictates of brussels? this failure also shows the european union's total inability to solve the crises it has created, since the european solidarity corps places the challenge of integrating refugees, for example, on the shoulders of the younger generations. but i assure you, young people have not waited for you to try to put together the pieces of a social cohesion that you have broken. in the european union, one in four young people have taken part in an organised volunteering activity in the last 12 months. in france, more than 136,000 young people have joined the civil service since its creation in 2010, especially after the terrible attacks that struck our country. my dear colleagues, you invoke the word solidarity as if you were invoking a spirit from beyond the grave. now go back to your fields and to your provinces. you will see that solidarity between neighbours and citizens has not waited for the great humanities of the european union to act and fill the gaps that brussels has shown for too long.
in writing. the european solidarity corps (esc) aims to help young europeans develop their skills and get a job. first of all, it is a sound project which would be difficult to oppose! the esc project was born in the context of the migration crisis and has very different objectives, such as providing an opportunity for marginalised communities (understanding migrants) or developing juncker's federalist spirit among young people... in addition, the etuc has several risks to which the commission has not been able to provide satisfactory answers. on the one hand, unpaid volunteers may eventually replace trainees and apprentices, thus increasing the vulnerability of young people. on the other hand, even though there are several programmes such as erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative (yei), the esc risks complicating rather than streamlining the whole. so, more than a tool to combat youth unemployment, it is a tool of europeanist propaganda, which we cannot support. the project aims to provide the esc with a legal framework and its own budget. we are against it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the rapporteur proposes strong commitments on labour and social and environmental criteria in trade agreements. however, we cannot reduce our dependence on palm oil without considering a sustainable alternative. vegetable oils that could replace them require more arable land. increased use of these crops would not remedy deforestation, to which agriculture contributes 73%. the rapporteur is therefore right to have set a more nuanced date of 2020 for the use of palm oil in biofuels, which account for an increasing share of total palm oil consumption. the development of second and third generation biofuels is therefore urgent. this energy transition must be accompanied by a social transition. small producers account for about 40% of world production. we must ensure that they are treated fairly in the matter of certifications. i note that this text deals with all these issues. however, all our policies must establish a coherent framework for our future energy supply.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty to do everything possible to combat deforestation. forests play a vital role in adapting to and mitigating the effects of climate change. however, the very rapid development of oil palm monoculture in recent years has been the cause of some of the world's deforestation. the european union, as a consumer of palm oil, therefore has a major role to play. several avenues were launched in this report and some of them seem particularly important to me, including support for sustainable palm oil production, which safeguards the forest, ensures high transparency in production and good traceability while allowing the maintenance of local agriculture and its jobs. in this context, i support the proposals for simpler and more understandable information for consumers on sustainable palm oil and the establishment of a single certification. i would like to dwell for a moment on the question of biofuels. the question of palm oil should not be confused with the more general question of vegetable oils, such as rapeseed, which can be co-products necessary for our self-sufficiency in protein while responding to a circular economy logic. i think this is a matter for the review of the energy directive and i regret that some people have tried to use this report to preempt the discussions.
madam president, the revision of the energy directive will soon be presented to parliament, so i am starting to work on the methanisation issues. i found with great concern that methanation systems used both cereals and food oils, including palm oil. i, for one, refuse to see edible products being used on a massive scale in the production of fuel. in the case of palm oil, this issue is compounded by the problems of deforestation of the wet forests which are essential for climate balances, by the effects on working conditions and by pollution which is extremely dangerous for the local population, all to the benefit of a few. without condemning palm oil, it is now necessary to take measures to ensure that this product is used in europe only for essential needs. it would be inconsistent to use it as a fuel source, for example, but also as a frying element, especially in collective catering. in fact, sustainable, balanced and supervised management between producers and consumers must be put in place.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 4 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on fraudulent practices in the meat sector in brazil by czeslaw adam sierkierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-000025/2017 - b8-0213/2017) (2017/2635 ((rsp)).
the commission has chosen not to suspend imports of meat from brazil in the wake of the spoiled meat scandal and its possible consequences for european consumers and producers. you simply removed from the list the four companies in question which had export licences to the union and adopted additional hygiene control measures for imported meat. these measures are both inadequate and inconsistent. as a new round of trade negotiations has just opened up between the european union and mercosur, it seems essential to suspend imports of meat, at least from the regions where the deficiencies have been identified. the meat fracking case involves 33 inspectors from the ministry of agriculture in this vast fraud network, so the entire system of meat certification control in brazil is in question. in these circumstances, commissioner, what concrete measures do you intend to take to finally protect both european consumers and farmers?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, what worries us about this scandal is the commission's inability to give us the real figures and to answer our questions. is this a debate for nothing? at any rate, we are not making any progress on this subject at the moment. how long have our fellow citizens been exposed to this risk? what quantities are really involved? what we see is that chile and china immediately closed their markets, while the european commission instead asked brazil to vaguely revise its standards. how is it possible today to ask our european farmers, and especially french farmers, to observe the highest standards of health protection while we allow damaged meat into the community? brazil, ukraine and turkey are countries with a high level of corruption, but they can still export. commissioner, i think it is time to review our standards and make sure that we can carry out checks in europe that are paid for by the countries of origin.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleague for his oral question. we must convey the concern of both consumers and beef farmers about this health scandal. it is legitimate to ask about the place of beef in the negotiations for the agreement with mercosur. while it is excessive to want to end this agreement, this case should not be underestimated. this scandal is the concrete expression of the concerns expressed for several years by cattle farmers and must be taken very seriously by the commission. in the context of the negotiations with mercosur, two risks must be taken into account: the health risk for consumers and the economic risk for the livestock sectors. in the absence of firm measures to ensure the protection of consumers and beef farmers, the message sent by the commission will be likely to reinforce citizens' euroscepticism and farmers' rejection of the european institutions. the spirit of the cap is to protect european agriculture. i repeat that agriculture cannot be an adjustment variable in trade negotiations.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by werner kuhn on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the characteristics of fishing vessels (recast) (com ((2016) 0273 - c8-0187/2016 - 2016/0145 (cod)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 4 april 2017.
the agenda calls for the report by marijana petir and maria lidia senra rodriguez, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women and their roles in rural areas (2016/2204(ini)) (a8-0058/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 4 april 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, the people of french guiana have risen in protest against its abandonment. nothing works in guyana anymore: hospitals, schools and public services are in ruins; security is no longer guaranteed and the borders are strainers, unable to stop the flood of migration. the french state is primarily responsible for this situation because its leaders have let everything go to waste for 40 years, like mrs taubira, who is guyanese. but the european union is also responsible, because guyana is an outermost region which benefits from erdf and european social fund subsidies. these grants were used to finance non-profit-making networks such as "a network of animation aimed at creating a dynamic of the territory and a strategic watch of the structuring projects". the european union is thus proving once again that it is a hundred miles away from the real concerns of its citizens. it is not animation that the guyanese need, but respect and solidarity.
this item has been closed.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to thank both rapporteurs, i want to thank the chair of the committee, mrs van brempt, all of the members of the committee who really devoted a lot of time and effort to this important topic. i welcome the report. i welcome the conclusions achieved by the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector (emis) and i am glad that i have again the possibility to discuss it with you. at the beginning i want to very much stress that we have to remember one thing: the emissions scandal should keep all of us still alerted, for the sake of the consumers who bought cars based on false promises, because of the arrogance in disregarding the rules and, importantly, because of the loss of the time which should have been spent making progress on the topics of the future: driverless and zero emissions cars. i am sure that today the report will give our citizens too – not only ourselves, but especially our citizens – clarity and transparency about what has happened and what needs to change. today is really a very symbolic day, on which we can we can start looking into the future, planning and acting. we want the industry to play by the rules and to truly respect and compensate consumers in europe, not just to say they do so. from today, i want member states to carry out proper market surveillance and enforce the law. most importantly, i also want the commissioners – myself, ourselves – and co-legislators to agree on an effective legal framework for type approval because such abuse should not take place again in europe. again, i appreciate the extremely hard work of the emis committee. this was a massive report. both i and my colleagues welcome your report and the resolution on which you are about to vote. we have a very common interest, i kept repeating this, to rebuild the trust in our regulatory system, to regain the credibility of our automotive industry and most importantly, to protect our consumers and our citizens. the commission has made big efforts so far. we have achieved a lot already. most notably, i have tabled a revision of the type approval framework, but of course there is still a lot more to be done. we will not let up the pressure on member states to provide us with concrete information and all of the evidence we need from them. the situation on this is still not very good. i welcome the conclusion of the emis report and the european parliament recommendations. they show me that the commission is really on the right track. i will ensure a solid follow-up together with my colleagues, with karmenu vella, with věra jourová, and with miguel arias cañete. this follow-up will include the allegation of maladministration, because there are some issues to which we can already respond, and this is because we have acted to remedy this situation as quickly as possible. we have done it, as you know, in three areas: better enforcement, better market surveillance and better rules. the work of your committee has been really key in helping us and helping me progress on all three points. thank you very much for this. firstly, i am taking a very strong approach to enforcement and i am again grateful for your support on this. we have launched infringement procedures against seven member states so far, but i am sure we have not finished our work yet and i will launch many more procedures if necessary. secondly, as your draft resolution quite rightly says, we need to improve market surveillance. you propose the creation of the european vehicle surveillance agency, and as you will have noticed in the white paper on the future of europe that this document refers to a possible enforcement agency, i think we have to really discuss it further in this context. but in the meantime, let us make quick progress on our legislative proposal on type approval. thirdly, we definitely need better rules, not just on market surveillance, but overall. i agree with the views in the emis report on this point. i believe that our proposals meet your recommendations in this area as well. we delivered on laboratory testing: co2 emissions, fuel consumption will become really more realistic with the so-called wltp test. we delivered on the new robust procedure to test co2 emissions, in real driving conditions, the rde packages. and we delivered the guidance for the member states to enforce the ban on defeat devices. most importantly of all, as i said we have proposed a much stronger type approval system. i welcome the progress that you have made on this proposal and the vote today. this takes me to my final point. the commission has taken first corrective actions but of course we cannot be the only ones. at the source of the scandals was the corrupt behaviour of a number of car manufacturers. but, as was also said by the rapporteurs, the industry’s attitude has not changed fundamentally. i hear very often: ok, this case was unacceptable but this is an isolated case. that is not true. there is also the failure of member states’ authorities to spot this and to react appropriately. some member states have taken serious efforts to improve but others are still in denial. the work of the committee and the work of the commission will not be done until attitudes change. let us use this this political momentum to change. this scandal should be followed by a massive work towards zero emissions cars. we are responsible as policy makers because industry needs a clear regulatory signal. zero emissions cars are the future of this industry. i hope that we can work together to maintain this pressure even after today’s voting and after the report is concluded.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the committee of inquiry took the view that the standards set by the commission for diesel vehicles were correctly calibrated. this approach is controversial because it is questionable. without, of course, condoning fraudulent practices, it is a little too easy to simply cast blame on european industry and blame national authorities. this is to forget that they have already made significant technical efforts to reduce polluting emissions over the last fifteen years, which should be emphasised. in a context of increased competition and economic recession since 2008, the european union may have sinned by being overly optimistic by overestimating the technological developments that manufacturers could achieve. it is therefore not surprising that the car manufacturers use illicit software, and with the consent of the commission itself. another aspect that should have been addressed by the inquiry committee could be summed up in the question: 'who benefits from crime?' last week, the volkswagen group agreed to pay ten us states $157.45 million in compensation, on top of the $23 billion already paid by the german carmaker to settle various transatlantic complaints. let us not be naive, the volkswagen case is also and above all an episode of the economic war waged by the americans against european companies. the us and european standards do not follow the same environmental and strategic logic. the united states has logically used the existing differences to favour its car groups, and it is their right to do so. instead of weakening our industrialists, let us try to respond intelligently. like the united states, we should protect our industries. the automotive sector in europe represents almost 12 million jobs, which must be safeguarded, in particular by taking effective measures to prevent mass relocations to third countries. i believe that this is a priority issue today.
mr president, madam commissioner, this committee of inquiry confirms the directions to be taken to improve air quality in europe. some people would have liked to make this committee a political tribunal or a diesel tribunal, but that is not the point. yes, each one has his share of responsibility in this matter. the slow decision-making at all levels and the complex development of a new test procedure have weighed on the rapid improvement in vehicle emission quality. on the other hand, some car manufacturers have been too reluctant to comply with the new standards, which are sometimes very strict. the tests carried out in laboratories up to now also lacked transparency, which will be corrected at last. we now have a duty to look to the future. the new rules must be followed by effects. while significant shortcomings have been identified in the type-approval procedures put in place by national authorities, the european commission needs to be able to exercise better supervision by controlling member states, and it is of course important to ensure that penalties are applied. diesel, long favoured for its co2 emissions, is now being transformed to reduce its health-harming nox emissions. a better balance between petrol and diesel is inevitable in europe, but new diesel technologies will only have a future if they comply with environmental standards. the credibility of the automobile industry is at stake. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you very much for your question, i will be happy to answer it. i am convinced that this case, which is a real scandal, forces the car manufacturers to make the right decisions anyway. if there is a genuine will on our part and on the part of the european commission and the member states, and this is where we need to push for strict control of vehicle emission measurements, i am confident we will make progress. we also know that car manufacturers are working on new technologies, because today the trend is towards clean vehicles.
mr president, commissioner, it was the american agency that sounded the alarm and it is american citizens who are currently being compensated by european manufacturers. this is not likely to strengthen the confidence of european citizens in their institutions and in their industrial fabric. the committee of inquiry into emissions measurement in the automotive sector (emis) has highlighted the weaknesses in the control system in the union and has tried to shed light on the causes of the problems and on how to remedy them. a further obstacle is whether the tests will be carried out correctly and by a trusted authority. the emis committee, unlike the thematic committee, voted in favour of the creation of a european agency to verify the effectiveness of these tests. this agency, properly equipped with the appropriate legal, technical and financial means, will be better able to ensure the effectiveness of the procedures we want to put in place and to restore consumer confidence where the commission and the member states have failed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what a privilege it has been to work with this committee of inquiry to draw together, beyond the divisions, the lessons of the dieselgate scandal! the recommendations of this committee of inquiry concern all car manufacturers which have exceeded the pollution standards voted here ten years ago. these recommendations must be set in stone if the rights and health of europe's 500 million consumers are to be protected from air pollution. the citizens are waiting for us at the corner. so let's make sure there's a before and after of dieselgate! that is why we must create an independent european police force to do the job that nobody has been able to do, neither the manufacturers, nor the member states, nor the commission. mrs bieńkowska, i agree - and this has been stressed by mr juncker, even by mr tajani - that we need an agency to monitor the car market. this is the only way to make europe more effective and fully at the service of its citizens.
mr president, it took more than a year of investigation, hearings, and careful consultation of documents to bring this dark matter of dieselgate to light. the conclusions of our inquiry were broadly adopted on 28 february and i welcome that. it shows that with perseverance and good will, in a collective spirit, we always manage to restore the truth beyond appearances, and i thank all those who contributed to this. our conclusions are clear and precise. now we must draw practical conclusions. that is the subject of the resolution adopted today. the european and national institutions have failed, but they now have the opportunity to put things right for the benefit of all, for cleaner air and cities where people can breathe better thanks to cleaner and more controlled cars. the legislation has been misapplied. the commission has therefore to find ways of applying it correctly throughout europe and to strengthen the ex post controls, which remain the best means of combating fraud. what better tool than a specialised european agency to apply the law uniformly, impervious to national interests, with the help of technically qualified experts? other modes of transport in europe, such as air, sea and rail transport, are regulated by agencies. why not road transport? that would be the logical conclusion of our work. the committee of inquiry voted in favour of this last february and jean-claude juncker declared that he was in favour. i hear the arguments, sadly budgetary, that a new agency would be too expensive. i will reply by saying that public health should not be seen as a cost but as an investment, especially when we consider the exorbitant price that europeans pay every year because of air pollution, the thousands of deaths but also the chronic diseases, sometimes of long duration, and the consequences for our health systems. in addition, an agency is not so expensive when it is intelligently set up. for example, it is possible to extend the powers of an existing agency for economies of scale. by building on the work of national authorities but supervising them, such an agency would also save time and money in litigation between two member states. our aim in creating this agency is more europe and, above all, a europe that protects. what we need today is a robust system that ensures compliance with the rules.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission and on behalf of my colleague commissioner bieńkowska, who, as she said, had to leave us, i welcome today’s debate on the type approval proposal. i thank mr dalton, as the rapporteur on this file, and also his shadow rapporteurs. we welcome the opportunity it gives us to reiterate the importance that we attach to this proposal. it is the most important measure to restore confidence in our system and the credibility of the industry. it is very timely to hold this debate just after the debate on the report and recommendations of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector (emis). if there is a clear lesson to learn from the car industry’s emission manipulations it is that our system was not fit for purpose. yes, we knew that emissions were higher on the road than in the laboratories, so already way back in 2012 we started a review of the eu type approval framework for motor vehicles, but the events of september 2015 really opened our eyes. the volkswagen case showed that there is a massive problem and further revelations have underlined that. they have shown that this is not only about volkswagen. there has been a systematic failure of the type approval system right across europe – a system that could not prevent one of the biggest ever industrial scandals in europe. so maintaining the status quo is not even an option; we need real change, we need a 180° shift to our regulatory system. we have to show that europe can make a difference to people’s lives. air quality in many of our cities is unacceptably poor and it causes premature deaths, and citizens have been cheated. it is time for citizens to see that we are all pulling in the same direction and that we are all putting their interests, their health and their environmental concerns first. so the commission very much welcomes the good progress made by parliament. we commend the hard work of the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs. this was a huge effort and we know it has not been an easy process. you are sending a strong and a clear message to our citizens and to our industry. type approval must put safety, environmental protection and the well-being of citizens first. when they buy a car, consumers must be able to trust the promises on emission limits, fuel consumption, safety rules and so on. this is the aim of our proposal and we are very pleased that the internal market committee report supports the main pillars of our proposal, namely reinforcing the independence and quality of the car testing system, introducing a system to control cars on the road, and reinforcing the type approval system with greater european oversight. these pillars are fundamental to ensure that industry will comply with the rules, and that there will be high quality, high transparency and a level playing field between manufacturers. it is not only manufacturers who need to change. everyone involved will have to follow the rules strictly and to apply the requirements in a harmonised manner, whether they be importers, testing bodies and laboratories, or type approval and market surveillance authorities. no exceptions, no gaps. you push us for even stronger actions, for instance mandatory targets for national market surveillance or reinforcing the commission’s powers. these proposals go in the right direction and we are ready to consider them constructively. i believe that we should concentrate our efforts on these main pillars, so that we can make swift and effective progress. other issues such as the provision of repair and maintenance information can be better addressed through parallel strands of work. let me tackle now the main open issue, which is the creation of an eu agency for vehicle market surveillance. i know that you discussed this at length and that you will continue discussing this today. in fact we already assessed the possibility of creating an eu agency as part of our type approval proposal. we discarded the idea at the time, mainly in the interest of speed, efficiency and budgetary resource implications. in the meantime, we have seen how difficult it is to ensure proper enforcement in a system of 28 different national authorities. so far, only a handful of them have taken action against emissions cheating and only one member state seems truly decisive, so effectively the remaining member states are making the case for an agency by not acting. you will have noticed that the white paper on the future of europe refers to a possible enforcement agency. let us take the discussion further in that context. we are eager to listen to your opinions and concrete proposals today. mr president, honourable members, whichever option we finally choose we need to make certain that it delivers a real 180° change. we have a duty to our citizens. they have been badly let down and they need to see that there has been real change. this is not just important for their health and their safety, it is also important for the environment and the future of the planet. by the way, it is important also for the future competitiveness of our car industry.
the report is to be submitted to the council for an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 30 million garbage trucks are on our roads. these are vehicles which do not meet the standards voted for in this house ten years ago and which exceed them ten times, or even fifteen times in some cases. in other words, in these famous episodes of air pollution, it is the health of our citizens that is directly affected. it is true that these overruns are directly due to fraud by manufacturers during type-approval tests. but it is also because of a system of complacency between manufacturers and authorities that a vehicle does not meet the standards on the road and, as it happens, meets them during laboratory tests. with this report, mr dalton, you have the opportunity to put a stop to a failing european certification system by introducing more independent and transparent tests and, above all, by allocating the means of monitoring markets throughout the life of vehicles. for me, there is only one thing left to do: to reassure our fellow citizens and show them that the european parliament can say that there will never be another dieselgate. the solution is simple - the european commission has said so, and many of us have been saying so since this morning - we must create a european market surveillance agency. we need a european policeman against cheating. the citizens are waiting for us at the corner and they are on our side.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, this dossier is emblematic of the added value that the european union can bring to the daily lives of 500 million consumers. the case concerns first of all the conflict of interests between the manufacturers - and therefore private interests - the states and the public interest. that's the first point. secondly, it concerns particulate matter emissions, nox emissions and fraud in relation to these emissions and, therefore, health directly. this dossier also covers co2 emissions, an area in which we have been fighting climate change, and state aid, since the states subsidize low-emission vehicles. finally, this dossier naturally concerns the role of the european union in preventing competition between states and distortion of competition on markets. we have here all the criteria which can actually allow the european legislator to intervene. i would like to pay tribute to the work of mr dalton and all the fictitious rapporteurs. indeed, on the issue of vehicle typeapproval, we have made some progress, in particular - and this is a very important point which you have mentioned - by cutting the umbilical cord between the typeapproval authorities and the manufacturers and by having european transparency, which is also very important. on the other hand, commissioner, i would like you to be even clearer in your support for the amendment of market surveillance. in the past we have had a very serious failure and i say this to all those who say that a european agency would be useless. yet we have a clear and proven failure of the states and the european commission. we therefore need an independent agency to spearhead the objective monitoring and surveillance of markets. we must also compensate consumers who suffer harm in connection with major health problems.
in writing. according to the emis committee, most manufacturers would abuse the rule that allows them to reduce the efficiency of the cleaning systems, in case they risk damaging the engine, thanks to article 5 of community regulation no 715/2007. the report deplores the absence of a supranational european typeapproval body. however, as a french member of parliament, i cannot ignore the fact that a manufacturer in my country, renault, claims not to have infringed european or national rules. french manufacturers are subject to strong competition within the european union, but especially from asian countries or the united states. the report praises the fact that american manufacturers have met pollution standards that are comparable to those in europe. however, the situation in the united states is not comparable, since the use of diesel is an ultra-minority among light vehicles. french vehicle sales are also affected by the euro exchange rate. we therefore reject this text, which is contrary to the interests of france, and we call for the strengthening of the european commission and reproach it for not having used all the means at its disposal against the member states.
mr president, commissioner, exactly two months ago we had the same debate in this house in which you announced good forecasts and good results for greece. we felt that there was no longer any reason to block the council or the eurogroup. since then, nothing has happened. mr dijsselbloem's name is sometimes mentioned in this house, but it is doubtless forgotten that mr schäuble or his accomplices, these gentlemen and the lady from the imf, are mentioned. because in reality we have the impression that, because we do not want to create moral unrest, it is those who denounce this moral unrest who are creating it in greece, producing here the miracle of bringing together the entire greek political class, contrary to what is happening in the country, against this austerity policy first wanted by mr schäuble for reasons, it seems to me, that have nothing to do with greece, nor with the euro zone, nor with the european union, but simply with an electoral calendar in germany. i do not think that the euro area economy can be held hostage by someone who is playing the sorcerer's apprentice or who is setting up a self-fulfilling prophecy strategy. for how can anyone blame mr tsipras for reminding his partners that they have made commitments on the debt issue when, in view of the results that are in line with what was expected of his country, they ask him to double the stakes and to make the situation of pensioners even worse? last friday it seemed to me that everything was in order and that an agreement was possible. but today we see that the prospect of an agreement and a conclusion of the review of the programme at the next eurogroup, this friday, is almost blocked. it's not safe. we need - and we say this again and again - to give greece sources of confidence. this is necessary for greece, but also for the euro area and the european union, because this situation weakens the overall balance. mr schäuble must urgently stop his manoeuvres in the eurogroup, which simply consist in importing german domestic policy debates into the euro area. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". this is the whole point of the discussion we have been having for months now, at least since the commission put the new results for greece on the table. how do you expect investors to want to return to this country when the review of the programme is not completed? this means that the partners do not give the country the credit it needs to start over. all that is needed is a sign that those who signed a memorandum with mr tsipras and his government to redress the situation are aware of the efforts made, the reality of the results and the opportunity for foreign investors to reinvest in the country to restart the economy.
mr president, first, second or third programme, is that the right question? the situation in greece is, in fact, indicative of the result of the austerity policies too often pursued in recent years by the european union. in greece, it is certainly more worrying than the average, but it should alert us to the risks facing the european union as a whole, which is currently unable to revive its economy in a sustainable way. how can the country be allowed to get its economy back on track by imposing insurmountable demands on the debt and the terms of its repayment? i would like to remind you that in our common history, there have been debt cancellations precisely to revive the economy. without going so far, we must now examine the conditions for a partial mutualisation which would allow the countries in difficulty, including greece, to start over on a good footing without having to continually render accounts or take new austerity measures which the people, greeks and others, no longer want.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr liese and in particular mrs willmott, for this report. it took four and a half years to reach this compromise text, not to mention the many trilogues that had to be held. these texts are always due to a scandal, for example the pip breast prosthesis scandal in france, among others, but i believe that there has been significant progress. among the strengths i would mention the system of compensation insurance for patients who suffer damage, which is very important. i note the progress on transparency and identification, including of medical devices, the creation of a public database on this subject, we have written to mr juncker asking for financial means to be made available so that this eudamed database can be operational, as well as the publication of the declaration of interest of all the experts who will participate in it, and finally the removal as far as possible of carcinogens, mutagens and reprotoxic substances. i would like to make a few points: we have not obtained authorization for the centralised marketing. we will therefore have several notified bodies, which means that we will have to carry out unannounced evaluations and checks, as has been said, to ensure that they are competent. the new scandal involving the essur tube sterilisation implant shows that the presence of nickel has a number of side effects which affect women. it is therefore important to ensure that certification bodies have very important clinical studies, also thanks to the expert committee that has to evaluate them. i am therefore quite optimistic about this text and hope that it will be voted on.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, following the scandals of fraudulently manufactured pip breast implants made from non-medical silicone and metal-metal hip implants which resulted in the spread of highly toxic cobalt, it was decided to scrap the rules on medical devices. unfortunately, these two disputed cases are partly the result of a lack of vigilance by a national health agency. but this does not in any way justify the total loss of the prerogatives of the states as a result of the introduction of the two regulations under discussion today. these new regulations will place unrealistic constraints on notified bodies, which are, by their compulsory approval, the cornerstone of the value chain, as they transfer the competences of the national authorities to these same notified bodies, turning them into a real health police. the consequences are twofold: privatisation of the health system when medical devices are placed on the market and, in addition, a considerable increase in certification costs in return for the liability that will be borne by these bodies and thus their insurance premium in anticipation of future lawsuits. while some provisions are useful, such as improved traceability, the final result is likely to paralyse the european medical device sector rather quickly, particularly the french sector, which is currently unable to support a notified body that is essential. in doing so, these regulations are an unprecedented attack on our health sovereignty. unable to supply their customers, due to the lack of compulsory ce marking, french smes are being forced out of hospitals and pharmacies on the recommendation of the french national agency for the safety of medicines itself, in favour of foreign companies, even outside the european union, albeit with products of lower quality. while these foreign companies also need to obtain the ce marking, their profitability and their prevalence in their home market enable them to withstand the test better, even if, in the long run, the potential lack of auditors will make the european market dependent on imports from third countries. in france, the medical device industry employs about 65 000 people in a thousand companies, of which more than 90% are very small enterprises (mses), with a turnover of 20 billion euros. finally, although this discussion was necessary and expected by the players in the sector, this revision entails a very substantial change in the regulatory requirements extending the certification deadlines. on the contrary, the deadlines for applying these regulations are desirable in the very short term, almost as if by force. for all these reasons, we shall oppose these texts.
mr president, commissioner, it has taken us almost five years to revise this legislation, which is over 20 years old, and to close the loopholes which have unfortunately led to scandals such as the global health scandal of pip breast implants. i regret the slow pace of the procedure, but i want to congratulate the rapporteurs and, among others, mrs wilmott and mr liese and the fictitious rapporteurs because they have really done a tremendous job to bring about an ambitious revision of this regulation and to meet two specific objectives, namely to strengthen and guarantee patient safety and to restore patient confidence while encouraging innovation in the field of medical technologies, and therefore job creation. these laws put an end to an era in which an implantable medical device met almost the same regulatory requirements as a simple toaster. today, the strengthening of the supervision of notified bodies, the imposition of unexpected control obligations on manufacturers, the attention paid to the most at-risk category 3 and 2b devices, or the improvement of product traceability, should all help to prevent fraud and restore the credibility of the ce marking. i simply regret that we have not found a uniform solution for the reprocessing of single-use devices, which i am totally opposed to. i would point out, however, that if the member states do allow them, the hospitals will have to meet extremely strict obligations. in conclusion, commissioner, i think we must ensure that these texts are implemented. any delay in the adoption of implementing acts could have serious consequences. we're not done with our sentences yet. i hope that the rapid and effective implementation of these many advances will require considerable resources and i hope that the commission and the member states will be able to put these resources on the table.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fellow rapporteurs, from simple artificial heart dressing to breast or hip prostheses, these medical devices are essential to our health and quality of life on a daily basis. they are a major part of the european health economy - i think it's important to say this - and they play a key role in our increasing life expectancy. this is a reality that must always be taken into account and this debate offers us the opportunity to do so. i remember being a co-rapporteur of a resolution in 2012: after the scandals of 2010 and 2012, it was absolutely necessary to ask the european commission to propose a protection mechanism. this was done after five years of victorious struggle. i therefore thank mr glenis wilmott and mr peter liese, and also the european commissioner, mr andriukaitis, for allowing us to offer a protection system for all europeans.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, allow me to stand in for the high representative, vice-president of the commission, ms mogherini, in this very important debate. first of all let me thank you for this report, as well as for your strong support for our work and in particular for the partnership framework approach. the partnership framework approach and your report are based on the same idea: isolation cannot solve the challenges of our time. we need to engage with our partners, build new channels for cooperation with them. and this is particularly true on the issue of migration. i cannot but subscribe to all relevant recommendations in your report. never forget that this is about human beings, so respect for human beings and human rights must come first. work on both short-term fixes and long-term solutions is important. tackle the root causes of irregular migration and forced displacement and work for political and diplomatic solutions to conflicts. engage not only bilaterally but also at the global, regional and local level. this is the cornerstone of our work with third countries on migration. following our debate in february, let me first of all debrief you on our work on the central mediterranean. all services involved, namely the eeas, commission services and council, are working hand in hand together with the presidency and member states on the implementation of the malta summit declaration. it goes without saying that our overall primary objective remains the stabilisation of libya. the terrible situation of migrants trapped in the hands of militias is only one, albeit important, part of the broader difficulties the country is facing. an effective and sustainable long-term response to the migration challenge in the central mediterranean cannot be found without a lasting solution to libya’s governance and security challenges. at the same time we cannot wait for the crisis in libya to be over: too many people risk their lives every day to cross the mediterranean, too many live in terrible conditions inside the country. work is being intensified on all levels as regards more immediate and medium-term migration-related actions. firstly we are stepping up our support for implementing partners, in particular the international organisation for migration and the unhcr. we aim at improving the situation at disembarkation points and inside detention centres. but our cooperation can achieve much also on assisted voluntary returns; according to iom’s analysis, 80% of migrants present in libya are willing to return back to their countries of origin if they are given a safe and dignified opportunity to do so. secondly we have started to facilitate a common approach between libya, chad and niger to better manage libya’s southern borders. the objective is to disrupt the smugglers’ business and provide assistance to migrants who are stranded, vulnerable or willing to return back home, before they embark on hazardous journeys through the desert. thirdly we continue our support to the libyan coastguard through operation sophia and through our seahorse programme in terms of training, to put libya in a condition to manage its territorial waters. last but not least community stabilisation, providing support to libyans as well as migrants, is also an important element under the eu support package for libya. let me in this context highlight the interconnection between our work on various fronts and in particular between our work in libya, the partnership framework approach and the valletta process. as clearly shown in our third progress report on the partnership framework adopted on 2 march, the approach is the right one and needs to be further consolidated. as part of this partnership we are engaging strongly with countries of transit like niger. in parallel we are working with the countries of origin of irregular migration, aiming also at developing cooperation on return and readmission. this is, however, indispensable to address the root causes of the irregular migration flows reaching the european union, and to discourage further migrants from embarking on dangerous journeys through the desert or at sea at the mercy of smugglers and traffickers. in this context it is paramount to ensure the political engagement of our partners to support our work with their own political strategic choices, and with reforms for the prosperity of their countries. in that regard the european external investment plan will be fundamental not only for the major impact that private investments might have for economic development, job creation and growth; the plan also offers the necessary technical assistance to identify and implement reforms for good governance, security and transparency. i do count on this house to continue working speedily towards the final adoption of the investment plan. let me now come back to the partnership framework and share with you the progress achieved with the five priority countries. niger represents a prominent example of successful cooperation on migration. the authorities are engaging proactively in the fight against human smuggling, in particular in the agadez hub. this is crucial as niger is a transit country of migratory flows towards libya. results are there, with a considerable decline of flows through agadez. we need now to stabilise this positive result by enhancing our support to the local communities which are accepting to abandon the smuggling business and expand niger’s model of the fight against migrant smuggling to other countries of transit in the sahel region. this is key also to addressing the possible deviation of the smuggling routes, an issue that we are closely monitoring, including by putting in place a better system of information sharing. our dialogue with mali is on track. we will soon meet with malian authorities to discuss possible areas of cooperation to stem the business of traffickers and smugglers of migrants. these include enhancing mali’s cooperation with neighbouring countries such as niger, which the malian minister for malians abroad visited recently. furthermore the projects we have approved under the eu trust fund for africa will allow iom to deploy activities in several parts of mali to facilitate the voluntary return of migrants transiting mali to their countries and the cooperation with border posts. senegal remains a trusted partner and we see positive developments. the senegalese side has recently taken further steps in the right direction and we expect some concrete results very soon. ethiopia has also adopted a constructive approach in regional and continental dialogues with the european union on migration as current chair of the khartoum process. its contribution, together with mali, was important to the successful outcome of the valletta senior official meeting last february. finally, dialogue and political cooperation with nigeria has been stepped up significantly, although work is still needed with this country which represents the main origin of the irregular migration flows reaching the mediterranean. this challenge we can only manage together and i am glad that our approach, based on migration compacts, has also become the international approach at the last united nations general assembly. the cooperation and experience acquired with the partnership frameworks is something we intend to bring as an eu input in the follow-up to the general assembly during the six informal consultations that are to be held in new york, geneva and vienna.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, this new report on migration is a continuation of the previous ones, in particular the one for which i was rapporteur, namely the report on human rights and migration in third countries, adopted last october. the rapporteurs should be thanked for this. as rapporteur for the opinion, i am pleased that many of the concerns of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) have been taken into account. we could have gone further, however, in the holistic approach, in an approach based on internal policies whereby member states would set an example in respecting the rights of migrants, whatever their status. the most urgent are legal channels, including economic and labour immigration, regardless of the country of origin. in 2015, 500,000 new visas were issued to ukrainians in the european union. good for them. of these 500 000 visas, 90% were issued in poland, 75% were work visas and 53% were employment visas in the european union. so why, at the same time, are the doors closed to those coming from the south, from syria, from the horn of africa? why is it that people are so obsessed with sending them home, with not letting them go? two weights, two measures. only objective criteria will enable the european union to have a coherent policy based on facts and not on fantasies that feed fear and rejection of the other. member states are moving further away from it every day.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while the flow of migrants to europe is set to explode again with the arrival of spring and summer, while the european court of auditors is denouncing the ineffectiveness of the union's policies on external border control, while even the french senate is denouncing the shortcomings in the functioning of the schengen area and the failure of the so-called hotspot policy, the parliamentary report which you are proposing to us tonight, obviously supported by the right-wing members of parliament, dares to demand that member states extend asylum to all economic and climate migrants, which is sheer folly. this enlargement will increase the appeal of the migratory airways and encourage hundreds and hundreds of illegal migrants to cross the mediterranean to come to us. worse, you ask national parliaments to abolish legal frameworks that you consider repressive, which is like thinking that a migrant who crosses the border without being authorised would no longer be considered a clandestine tomorrow. in what language should we tell you that we no longer want this immigration? the people of europe do not want more immigration. the people of europe want to control their borders and, above all, preserve their identity.
madam president, the arrivals of migrants and refugees are not going to stop, it is a reality. it is therefore necessary to anticipate them and to provide durable and practical solutions. you should know that every day, 34,000 people are forcibly displaced around the world. in this context, the european union has a dual responsibility. its first responsibility is to show solidarity with the developing states, which host the vast majority of refugees and which, despite their difficulties, help those in need of protection. this is the case in lebanon and jordan, where the situation is deteriorating rapidly. the second responsibility of the union is to combat, through its external action, the root causes of migration, such as poverty, violence, lack of democracy and unemployment. i want to make it absolutely clear that i am not opposed in principle to cooperation agreements with third countries. but we only hear about one aspect of the matter, namely security, border protection and aid conditionality. at a time when migration issues have become a real bargaining lever in discussions on development aid, development aid must be firmly anchored to the values of the european union, including respect for human rights.
mr president, in november 2015, 66 countries from the maghreb, sub-saharan africa, the middle east and the european union met at the valletta summit and stated that the problem of migration goes beyond the refugee crisis; it is a long-term, political and human phenomenon which we must tackle without fear of nationalists. it is clear that we have remained in the dark. i'm asking you two questions. what about the 3.6 billion for the trust fund for africa agreed in valletta? what about the €44 billion in the external investment plan which president juncker proposed to us here on 14 september last and which was to be supplemented by the member states by €44 billion? i think that's where our life together is at risk. so it's high time to make decisions and stick to them financially. our partners in the southern mediterranean - the maghreb, sub-saharan africa and the middle east - are impatient. it is a question of our credibility, it is also a question of our identity, the european identity we have.
in writing. in 2015, 66 million people were displaced by conflict and violence. in the face of this distress, the international community, including the union, has a duty to respond comprehensively and effectively. too often, despite the dangers to which they are exposed, ngos provide emergency humanitarian aid. i am thinking of the most vulnerable: women, children and lgbti people, who face an increased risk of violence and abuse on the path to exile. women are subjected to sexual and gender-based violence, even in places that are supposedly safe. reception procedures must meet their specific needs. but before you arrive, how many died on the road? tragedy after tragedy is caused by the lack of safe and legal access routes for asylum seekers. but there are solutions: resettlement, legal economic migration or humanitarian visas. humanitarian visas are only one possibility today. this must become a clear obligation in the visa code. the eu must base its action on human rights and international law, which is non-negotiable. this will give us greater credibility in our agreements with third countries.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting on the eve of the vote on the revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. we crossed headwinds, avoided some deep-water runs, endured flat-spaces for months of immobility, endured some storms, and withstood the sirens that sang we would never make it to a safe harbor. yet we kept our course and are now reaching the dock. the journey could have been more peaceful and we could have brought more fish back into our holds, but we have achieved our objective: the revision of the financial framework. although budgetary programming extended over seven years allows everyone - region, state, research laboratory, etc. - to access european programmes with confidence, and also with visibility and efficiency, this exercise is becoming increasingly difficult. firstly, because in 2013 we adopted an under-sized financial framework for the years 2014-2020, secondly because the duration implies that the last invoices will arrive in 2023, but above all because in the unstable period we are in, it has become impossible to plan seven years in advance and to respond to unforeseen events and profound developments. meps had this clarity, since as early as 2013, they had obtained the possibility of a mid-term review. it was not a whim, as we can see, but simply a realistic vision and analysis of the under-budgeting and the evolution of a world that is moving faster and faster. in 2013, the migration phenomenon, brexit, the bombings, the imperialist aims of vladimir putin and the election of donald trump were not news. the truth is that our framework is now obsolete. to begin to respond to these challenges, a review of the financial framework was needed. of course, what is offered to us will not answer all problems and questions. it is only a small step, but in the right direction, and i would like to thank the commission for it. this step forward is one that will unlock up to €6 billion for europeans, up to €3 billion for flexibility, with an additional €516 million for the flexibility instrument, €80 million for the emergency aid reserve and up to €2.4 billion for the reuse of unallocated appropriations that will be added to the flexibility instrument. budgetary reinforcements are planned - you know them - for the fight against youth unemployment, the reception of refugees, and €2.5 billion is planned for the security of europeans. but contrary to our expectations, this revision does not provide for raising the ceilings on expenditure, nor does it provide for sufficient solutions to avoid a new crisis in payments, and, finally, it does not unfortunately raise the subject of own resources, which are essential if we are to stop the vicious circle of budgetary shortages. but we are satisfied. this text sets out the principle of a mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework, thus demonstrating its usefulness and setting a precedent, a necessary step for the future. we wanted to add a statement with my colleague, mr olbrycht, the co-rapporteur, so that there would be no ambiguity in our interpretation of the statements proposed by the council. in other words, parliament will never relinquish any of its powers or budgetary authority as defined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. of course, the commission will continue to guarantee full respect for everyone's budgetary prerogatives. we are therefore approaching the next budgets with the challenges and priorities in mind. parliament has always been and will always be clear about its interpretation of the financial framework: 'por límite el cielo', i am not very good at spanish but, as cervantes wrote, 'the sky is the limit', that is to say the ceilings and only the ceilings of the financial framework as a whole, that goes without saying. this review is an important step, but we should not be under any illusions. if this is indeed a breath of fiscal air, a moment of respite, it is not the hoped-for solution to all the budgetary difficulties that beset us. we have pointed out, during the review, the gap between the new priorities and the state of the union's actual resources. this is not an endpoint for budgetary issues until 2020. no, this revision is a reinforcement of a young construction, but which in recent years has been severely tested.
mr president, we should be here tonight to be satisfied with a 0.28% increase for the next three years, and then we should be shouting victory in a concert of complacency? let's not get carried away! not only is this increase small, but it is also supported by the throttling of the states. where is the big overhaul we were promised, the big overhaul of the combat budget we need to meet the challenges? the reality is that we are not getting out of the fear and the logic of austerity that underlies everything, prevents everything and continues to offer the only prospect of the people suffering again and again. sad prospect for the peoples and for europe.
mr president, this revision of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 is a victory. it's a win to be tempered, but a win nonetheless. it is a victory for the european parliament and i would like to thank my colleague from the socialist and democratic group, isabelle thomas, and the co-rapporteur, jan olbrycht, for their work. they have been tenacious and patient throughout these negotiations and have been able to ensure that the prerogatives of the european parliament, which is also the guarantor of democracy, are respected. this victory, however, must not obscure the urgent need to see bigger, to aim higher, to think more boldly. after almost three years in the european parliament, i have unfortunately had to repeat that the budget of the european union is insufficient and that it must be fed by own resources, which are themselves drawn from the resources needed to meet the ecological and societal challenges. "not to have the courage of one's opinion is not to have an opinion", wrote the frenchman émile de girardin in his pensées et maximes in 1867. today is the time to stop bumping into the existing and to sustainably drive the world of tomorrow. this requires a more ambitious budget, especially as new policies have to be implemented every year and their funding cannot be obtained by stripping away structural policies such as the cap and cohesion policies.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this last stage, i would of course like to thank commissioner georgieva, who accompanied us at the beginning of the process, and commissioner oettinger, who facilitated its conclusion. i would also like to thank the slovak presidency and the maltese presidency and the representatives of the member states, who played a decisive role in this undertaking, even though - and i forgive them - they gave us a little banana peel at the end of the process. i would also like to thank my colleagues in parliament, those here today, but also those who, in 2013, made the revision project come to life, and those who, with the persistence of the gardener, made it come to life. it is a pity that mr kölmel has left, because i wanted to tell him that i too hope that parliament will show courage. courage, as jean jaurès said, is to seek the truth and speak it. the truth about the union budget is that it does not correspond to the priorities it sets. to tell the truth is to say that we need a strong europe if we are to have a say in the world, and to say that with a budget of less than 1% of gdp, the budget is still a mere drop in the bucket that does not allow us to show its full potential. to tell the truth is also to say that the union is in danger of dying from the inertia and frivolity of governments, and that if we do not find a budgetary structure composed mainly of own resources for a genuinely european budget, we will not succeed. but this will be examined by our own resources rapporteurs, to whom i wish the greatest courage.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. this is why as early as 2012 and 2013, the financial stability board and the international organization of securities commissions (iosco) had indicated that we should legislate in this area on constant value monetary funds (cnav), which played a systemic role in the contribution of parallel finance to the crisis. i am one of those who would have preferred the ban of these notorious cnavs given the systemic risk and what they represent for this shadow banking system. but after two attempts in this parliament, in the previous and the current legislature, and given the deadlock in the council, i preferred a situation in which we could find a compromise and move forward rather than a situation in which we could not adopt any legislation, because in the end the happiest would have been the managers of those famous constant value money funds which we are at least trying to control. i would urge all my colleagues to take this step, even if i share their frustration at not having been able to go all the way, because in the council some member states, which are the home of most of this counterproductive financial activity, have refused any other solution than the one we have arrived at, despite the intelligence deployed by our rapporteurs to find ways, means and a system to regulate these funds.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ten years ago the subprime crisis plunged the world economy into turmoil and exposed the financial sector's abuses. many of us wanted more financial regulation. what happened to the good intentions of the past? to the shelter! a majority of meps preferred to align themselves with the demands of financial lobbies rather than act in the interests of citizens by better regulating risk-bearing money funds. we started with a project to improve the stability of financial systems. we are left with a text which largely preserves the operation of money funds exposed to market risks. let's not have such short memories. let us learn from the past. the risk of a new crisis is real. let's live up to our responsibilities. citizens have suffered enough from the risks taken by the banks and the resulting austerity.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, the reform of the monetary funds was born in pain after four years of delay. we all agree on the need to contain the systemic risk of constant liquidity funds. but the european union is once again putting forward a complex text. i wish asset managers good luck in implementing this reform and complying with the whole range of new rules. as for investors, the long awaited clarification did not take place. the interests of the irish financial industry are protected, but more ambitious decisions would probably have been needed to secure the entire financial system. as i often say, the shock wave of the systemic shock will come from the speculative economy, as in 2008. the next financial cataclysm is all too obvious: the growth of the shadow banking system and the banks' off-balance sheet liabilities and non-performing loans. the protection of the real economy requires a strict separation of banking activities. but that is precisely what the european union does not want to do. finally, the french financial sector did not wait for the european union to secure its monetary funds. that is why we will vote against this reform.
mr president, commissioner, i believe that the european parliament has helped to improve the commission's proposal on a number of points, in particular the protection of professional investors. however, i would have preferred that we had gone a step further and made this famous summary a real tool for reaching out to lay investors by bringing its format closer to that which we will use for retail investment products in the context of prip legislation. i think there was a step forward that we could have made. that said, i welcome the adoption of a european growth prospectus, which will make it possible to broaden the conditions of access to capital markets for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are suffering too much from the restrictive credit policy pursued by banks. finally, we welcome the improved conditions for cooperation and working conditions between the supervisory and control authorities of the country of origin and the country of distribution of the prospectuses.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me once again pay tribute to the courage of the british people, who voted against the prophets of doom who predicted chaos in the event of brexit. yes, british democracy, one of the oldest democracies in the world, has defied the predictions of the globalist technocracy that is rampant in brussels, but also in paris. now we owe it to you and you owe it to us to respect the sovereign decision of the people. there is no need to threaten the british, it is in all our interests that this exit be conducted in a calm and respectful manner. the united kingdom is not leaving europe, it is leaving the european union, a supranational organisation which was built without the people, and even against them, by organising the collective impotence of our nations for the sole benefit of the multinationals. for a long time now, the people have been asking you to put an end to this bureaucratic system, which is an attack on democracy, and its ideological orientations which harm our vital interests. this is particularly the case with the dogma of the free movement of capital, goods and persons. europe, our europe, has existed for thousands of years, and you are the ones who are destroying it. we must therefore rebuild it through useful cooperation, by restoring our nations to their sovereignty, that is, by restoring our peoples to their freedom, starting with the freedom to defend their identity, their culture, this great heritage which we must pass on and enrich. this is the fundamental right of peoples to self-determination and to remain masters of their own destiny.
madam president, no one has anything to gain from the uk leaving the european union. a breakup is always painful, and while unity is strength, disunity is a terrible source of vulnerability. the british people have nothing to gain by being isolated on the international stage and losing all the benefits that membership of the european union brought them: freedom of movement, freedom of residence, the single market, the charter of fundamental rights, and so on. the european union will also lose. it finds itself with a limb amputated, weakened in many of its policies and with millions of citizens facing an uncertain future. there's a long list of them. but while the pain felt by all pro-europeans today is acute, we are still political leaders. so, despite the sadness we may feel individually towards our colleagues, comrades or friends, we must go ahead and turn this political crisis into an opportunity for the re-founding of europe. we will have to fight to ensure that citizens are the first priority in the negotiations on the uk's withdrawal and in the possible partnership that will follow. but above all, we must listen to the anger of the brexit supporters and reform europe in depth so that tomorrow, membership of the european union will once again be a matter of course for its inhabitants. the europe of protection, peace and prosperity, the europe we love, must regain all its splendor. the democratic leap forward will be the condition for the survival of the european project.
madam president, we are gathered here today because the united kingdom has finally started the process of withdrawal from the european union. the least that can be said is that the road has been long, and that the british government has been somewhat unprepared. on behalf of the french delegation of the epp group, i wish michel barnier good courage, who has the experience and charisma to conduct these negotiations with efficiency and pragmatism. on the one hand, there are the technical aspects, of which there are thousands: the resolution we are presenting today, which makes our institution a democratic bloc capable of agreeing on the red lines and which it is important to defend in the negotiations, is a basis for the commission and the member states to work on. but on the other hand, there is the act of communicating, explaining, talking to the citizens, which is a matter of concrete and useful policy. we are elected representatives in contact with the women and men in our constituencies. in the confusion that has prevailed so far, some people have been able to say to me: 'you see, sir, it makes no difference to leave the european union', believing that the united kingdom was already out. populists and extremists also play on the fears and isolated national destinies of the union, but let us face it: isolation leads to decline. the fact that we are no longer part of a common destiny will inevitably weaken this kingdom, which may be divided tomorrow, with scotland eager to be part of the world's leading economic power, the european continent. the united kingdom has chosen to leave the single market, and it will lose economic sovereignty. if theresa may wants to maintain a stable relationship with the european union in the future, she will have to fulfil her country's political and financial commitments. before you leave the table, you have to pay the bill and divorce is expensive, unfortunately. so let's not procrastinate. the citizens can't stand the warm water anymore. let us be frank with our british friends, pragmatic in our negotiations and realistic about the necessary partnership that will shape our relationship of tomorrow.
madam president, mr minister, mr president of the commission, regret, sadness and disappointment still prevail when we think of the break which was chosen by a majority of british people. but our responsibility now is to negotiate on the basis of a constructive but also combative and determined strategy in the interests of the european citizens, also in the view that this break, far from weakening the union, offers it a renaissance. the british prime minister says she is giving up the single market because she refuses the freedoms that come with it. despite these denials, his letter of resignation shows that everything will be done to gain access, including through the window, if it is not possible through the door. whatever mrs may calls this agreement, we will not accept any free trade agreement which undermines our social or environmental standards or which serves as a dessert court of arbitration. we must be firm and we must reject the conservative threats of tax dumping or security. we must be firm, mr negotiator, particularly on budgetary matters, in order to protect a union budget that is already under pressure and already weakened by the devaluation of the pound sterling.
mr president, thank you for allowing me to speak on this point of order. i have not studied the question you have just raised, but i am a little surprised. there has been a recent revision of the rules of procedure and, if i understand correctly, you are now telling us that there is a new revision of the rules of procedure which was adopted at the request of the chairmen of the political groups. the rules of procedure of the assembly do not depend on the assent of the political groups. if the rules of procedure contain a new provision, it can only be adopted once it has been voted on by the plenary assembly itself, including by members who, like myself, do not belong to any political group.
mr president, demagogy, aristotle said, is the perversion of democracy. is it a coincidence that demagogy was born in the cradle of democracy in athens? no, because the freedom of speech offered by democracy leads to freedom of thought. is it a coincidence that there is so much demagogy in european democracies? no, because europe, in addition to promoting the free movement of goods and people, also embodies the free movement of ideas. it all depends on the intentions of those who carry them on social networks, it is not for nothing that we talk about viral dissemination on the internet. the concept of a virus is there. some people take advantage of it to inoculate him. donald trump did not invent this process of alternative facts. we have specialists in this house, such as mrs le pen, mr mélenchon and mr jadot. they use fear as a breeding ground, the internet as a weapon and citizens as targets. their popularity is not based on what they've done, but on what they've done with facts. their mentors are known. from hugo chávez to vladimir putin, there is certainly experience. the great projects of history were nevertheless made in the serenity and discretion of negotiations, such as the treaty of rome, whose 60th anniversary was celebrated. let's take a step back. can you imagine general de gaulle responding on twitter to people criticizing his call from london? can we imagine parodies on the internet of chancellor kohl and president mitterrand holding hands at the ossuary of douaumont? could we have shown the normandy landings on facebook? the web giants have to accept the fact that they are letting the pyromaniacal firefighters play with fire. and the media must be able to afford to pay journalists who take the time to analyze. the two topics are linked if we want to restore calm.i end with a rhetorical question: are populist parties more powerful since the advent of social networks, is this also a coincidence?
mr president, one more point of discussion, which is pointless, ridiculous and even grotesque, on, i quote: 'hate speech, populism and false information on social networks' and 'the union's response'. this debate proves that the majority of this institution, faced with its failures, has nothing better to do than to attack the opposition. what you call 'populism' is the voice of the people who are victims of euro-globalism and who want to express their legitimate anger towards you. what you call "fake news" is mainly the impertinent responses to the official lies of the print and broadcast media groups you control. and if there's false information in there, what's stopping you from disproving it? what you call hate speech is anything that goes against the dogmas you've established. in reality, the hatred is the product of the politically correct. in germany, whose head of state yesterday boasted of respect for human rights, there are more than a thousand political prisoners or prisoners of conscience. in france, and whatever one may think of their ideas, which everyone is naturally entitled to disagree with, an 88-year-old academic, professor faurisson, a father of a large family, mr reynouard, and a well-known polemicist, mr soral, have each just been sentenced to hard prison for the crime of speech, and this under the laws against free speech that exist in my country. that's what should shock you. sweep away these laws instead of preparing for the introduction of new censorship.
mr president, the european union is in a state of disarray. the british people have dismissed her and other european peoples are about to do the same. instead of questioning itself, it seeks to silence its opponents, those it calls by such a beautiful name: the populists. the european parliament today dares to conflate populism with hate speech. the objective is transparent. it's about demonizing patriots to better censor them on social media. the commission has just admitted this through mr ansip: 'we have contacted the social media operators', he said. and other speakers, such as mr proust, have just pointed to the target of future censorship: marine le pen. if you have any honour left, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, attack the real hate speech coming from jihadists and respect democracy. respect the freedom of expression of your political opponents.
mr president, the free communication of thoughts and opinions is one of the most precious of human rights. every citizen can therefore speak and write freely, except to answer for the abuse of this freedom. this is the principle that the french revolutionary in 1789 put forth and that has become a very famous formula. what's he saying? freedom is the law, but freedom of speech is not a right to lie. it is not an absolute principle, although some in this house do not like it and sometimes seem to feel that it is being targeted. without recalling the beautiful legend of the bocca della verità in rome, which threatened to break the hand of the liar and without imagining creating an authority of truth, freedom of expression also requires protection against hate speech, against speech inciting jihadism and terrorism, against racist and insulting speech, against false information that floods social networks, to the point that today they are often called social networks. we must take action against illegal content and remove it. we need to work with the big internet companies, we need to work with the education world to deconstruct misinformation, and we need to work actively with professional journalism to suppress this false information.
mr obermayr, you had a minute, we have to conclude, i'm sorry. there is no question of censure, it is simply that your time for speaking has expired.
a number of our colleagues who have joined us wish to make interventions on demand. i would like to make it clear again that there are no on-demand interventions in this debate.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. as europe faces an unprecedented crisis: 20 million unemployed, growing insecurity, austerity, mass immigration and above all islamic terrorism, the eu can think of nothing better to do than to fight so-called hate speech or populist rhetoric. populism comes from the latin "populus" which means the people, what is wrong with this eu? is it against the defence of the interests of the people? everywhere the "fake news" media and the policies put in place to scare people are no longer working. it has been seen in the united kingdom, the united states, italy and hungary. it is clear that the citizens are no longer deluded and that your answers are not democratic at all! orwell's big brother couldn't have dreamed of a better one! social networks are a great tool (although one must be careful) for re-information and for fighting against your own unique thinking. being against terrorism does not mean being islamophobic, being against marriage for all does not mean being homophobic and fighting mass immigration does not mean being racist! i say stop to good thinking and yes to the truth!
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by miapetra kumpala-natri, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 531/2012 as regards the rules applicable to wholesale roaming markets (com (2016) 0399 - c8-0219/2016 - 2016/0185 (cod)) (a8-0372/2016).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are promising europeans almost free roaming. unfortunately, in economics, nothing is really free. it's all worth it. we're going to give this initiative a chance. however, is there not a risk? on the one hand, the increase in national tariffs to compensate for the losses in homelessness. is it the poor who don't travel to pay for the rich who travel? is it the excluded from globalization, the poor and the precarious, who have to pay for the beneficiaries, who have the chance to be connected in the world? in france, only 40% of the population benefits from globalisation. second risk, the decline in investment in the network while we have to prepare for 5g and optical fibre. finally, the fall in spending on research and development, even though we are already lagging behind the rest of the world.
mr president, the commission proposes to exempt ukrainians from the visa requirement for entry into the union. i am firmly opposed to this proposal, because the commission itself presents it as, i quote: 'a development of the schengen acquis'. i am against schengen, whose obvious failure has just been acknowledged by a report of the french senate. i condemn, on the other hand, the union's willingness to collaborate with the sinister regime of president poroshenko. the un human rights council has revealed that it practices torture against people suspected of separatism. more generally, ukraine is no longer complying with european standards. there's no respect for the law. prosecutor general lutsenko recorded a 25 percent increase in crime in the country. as for corruption, it is better than ever. unfortunately, president poroshenko is setting a bad example by signing contracts with poroshenko, the head of the company, that is, with himself. according to forbes magazine, his personal fortune has increased by $320 million in two years. in these circumstances, it is unacceptable to award such a prize to ukraine. the union must get back on its feet and stop allowing itself to be blinded by its hatred of russia.
mr president, more and more demagogy, more and more excesses. in the end, the european union teaches us nothing. all we can say is that after enlargement to 28 and soon to 34 with turkey and visa liberalisation, the european union is finally a place where everyone is accepted regardless of where they come from. in any case, our group is quite clear. as for turkey, we are against, resolutely against, visa liberalization. we believe that ukraine is not a friend of europe. we cannot accommodate everyone and we cannot pay for everyone. in fact, mr rapporteur, what you want in your report is only to distance ukraine from russia. here's what you want to do. you don't want to integrate him, you want to keep him away from russia. so we are still on the wrong track and i think the european union will suffer from this excess of migrants and visa liberalisation.
mr president, ukraine is experiencing such levels of poverty and corruption that a large part of the population has come to regret the soviet yoke, that is to say. the fact that ukraine was awarded more than €300 million by the european union last november and $1 billion by the imf just this week is a lucky break for the oligarchy, which embezzles 15% of the national budget. the liberalization of visas under the ridiculous pretext of 'deepening contacts between peoples' - this is in the commission document - cannot conceal a new political maneuver. it will be devastating for workers in the union, who will be subjected to increased competition from a labour force that can be exploited illegally, at any price, since the average wage there is 180 euros a month and pensions 64 euros. it will be devastating for european citizens, who are the perfect prey for criminal gangs, whose activities will be facilitated. finally, it will be devastating for ukraine, which will have just finished draining its manpower after having already lost more than ten million inhabitants.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam commissioner, the chaotic situation in venezuela requires a measured response on our part. the end of the oil boom has certainly revealed the inadequacies of the political and economic system built by president chávez. the endless queues for basic necessities are a reminder of the final bankruptcy of other systems based on economic principles that fall under collectivism. this social crisis is compounded by political instability, the main driver of which seems to be the stubbornness of president maduro. however, the european union's interference is not justified. we must beware of supporting opposition movements whose motives and outcome we do not know.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, colleagues, at my home in france and therefore not in russia , on 24 march 2013, during a legal demonstration and therefore not illegal, as in russia we were gassed, repressed, arrested, imprisoned, as was the case with nicolas bernard. here in france, under the accusation of embezzlement - we are not in russia - the main leaders of the opposition to the socialist government, mr fillon and mrs marine le pen, are accused without any form of trial, and media and legal systems are used to destroy candidates. we are not in russia and this is not about minority opponents. mr. preda, forgive me, but you must let me speak. on the other hand, mr president, i just wanted to say in closing... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i understand very well why you interrupt a speaker who has exceeded his speaking time, except when that speaking time is being taken up by a number of speakers to whom you have the duty to impose silence. in my view, interruptions should not be counted as part of a speaker's speaking time. it's very basic.
mr president, it is very possible that the arrest of mr navalny and the banning of the demonstration he was leading are regrettable; we do not share the russian government's view. but what i can say is that in my country, france, in lyon for example, the prefect carenco did not hesitate to ban the demonstrations of national youth, many of whom were arrested and even condemned without anyone being moved. in germany, whose president yesterday praised us for respecting human rights, there are nearly 1 054 prisoners of conscience and 12 000 people who are currently being prosecuted. so, in a nutshell, i'd rather we sweep the front door. i mentioned yesterday the cases of an 88-year-old academic, a father of a large family and a well-known polemicist who were sentenced to hard prison under procedural conditions which do not respect the rights of the defence, but this did not move the majority of this house.
author. mr president, yes, human rights are being violated in belarus. yes, there is repression, especially against those who protest against an unjust measure. yes, it's the only country in europe that has the death penalty. yes, we must support the un special rapporteur. but other rights are being violated, particularly those of migrants. these are mainly chechens, tajiks, georgians or nationals of countries where this parliament is denouncing the situation. these migrants seek to reach the european union and apply for asylum. they are most often sent back to belarus, at the risk of being sent back to their country, where they are known to be at risk, given the country's good relations with russia. worse, the union is currently negotiating a mobility partnership including, of course, a readmission agreement. i therefore regret that our proposals in this area have not been accepted. it is not possible to choose only those violations of human rights which are mutually reinforcing and to turn a blind eye to the risks faced by the political opponents of mr lukashenko's friends. how does the commission intend to enforce the right to asylum in this country? human rights are not variable geometries, and this is too often forgotten within the european institutions.
mr president, in the last two years belarus has indeed taken a step towards respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. these efforts, which are also being rewarded by the european union, must be maintained and stepped up. the union must encourage the leaders to get back on track. the recent events in belarus are not acceptable. the arrests and the violence that followed must be strongly condemned; they have no place in a democracy. the demands and claims of the people must be listened to and heard. parliament must firmly condemn any act which is contrary to the principle of respect for fundamental freedoms. we must call on belarus to talk to its people and to resolve these conflicts in a democratic way. the efforts made by belarus so far must be highlighted and persuaded not to compromise everything. the union will only be able to support belarus if it protects its citizens and their rights. mr lukashenko must listen to us, and if he does not, the union will have to consider sanctions.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i had to be here. first, to accompany our italian friends; secondly, as a member from strasbourg, it is also my duty to be there to make this session of parliament a reality on thursday afternoon, which is difficult when compared to a thursday afternoon in brussels. and also because i love the naples area very much because i've sailed there a lot, and because it's an absolutely splendid area. i would like to see a debate on the question of the diversion of european funds to the mafia and the procedures that have made this possible. i am sure that italy has a responsibility in delegating the management of these funds, but there is a more general problem. i note - i am referring to the commission - that we are in extremely complicated procedures where, fearing any misappropriation of funds, we are no longer able to spend the funds. to illustrate my point, i will mention the g5 sahel, for which we voted 15 billion, which is absolutely necessary for the fight for security and development in this area, but the procedures are such that we do not spend the money for fear of misappropriation of funds. there's a problem with that. either we are faced with protocols, ethical charters, codes of good conduct, principles of transparency, disclosures of conflicts of interest, and so on, open calls for tenders and, despite all this, we see this continuous misappropriation of funds. how did we get to this point? i think you should ask the commission questions. how can procedures be adapted to the real world and the real situation? because it is very easy to make tenders in which there is misappropriation or embezzlement of funds. this should have been anticipated, because it is unacceptable that european funds are used to support organised crime. what you propose is very good indeed. we're fined, we're given money back to help put things back together, but isn't that money given back to be taken away again? in italy we are facing the same situation as we have in some very difficult countries - and i am thinking particularly of the albanian mafia, in kosovo, in bosnia-herzegovina or even in serbia, in all these enlargement countries - where community funds - and you know this - are also being diverted to support movements of organised crime. we need to rethink these procedures. i would like to return to my experience: when i was mayor of strasbourg in 1980, the services were public and we had control of our waste, which avoided any deviation from the procedure since the city was responsible and managed itself, under its own control, all its waste management. the general invitations to tender, the liberalization of competition, have led to a situation where the procedure is being misused by fictitious companies, by shell companies for the benefit of organised crime or, simply, by companies making absolutely unacceptable profits. all this worked very well in strasbourg, i give you an example, when we did it under our own control. secondly, the weakening of the state, the way in which the state has been prevented, the withdrawal of its sovereignty, the inability of the state to actually use the means, often force, against organised crime. there are not only elements of law, there is also the monopoly of force, and we have entered into a circuit so complicated that we cannot get out of it because we have weakened the states. finally, the commission must consider procedures which are linked to reality.
mr president, i should like to make a small clarification in relation to mr pittella's request: we had reached an agreement between several groups that we should be asked for both a request for a resolution and a request for a mission to hungary. i would therefore like our proposals to be put to the vote together, as we have agreed.
mr president, i know that this does not change the vote, but i wanted to tell you that i did not have my card and that i wanted to vote against.
mr president, the new hungarian model of 'illiberal democracy' is the gradual but systematic introduction of counter-powers: the media, the judiciary, education, ngos. the 'stop brussels' consultation is a caricature and the draft law on ngos, modelled on russian law, is not a text of transparency, but of suspicion. as regards the migration issue, one may wonder whether the right of asylum still exists in hungary. the geneva convention is no longer respected: systematic detention, including of minors; construction of a wall along serbia, now electrified; right to shoot on sight for border hunters; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the commission's lack of action since december 2015, as well as mr avramopoulos' silence on his return from hungary, has been a cause for concern. i therefore welcome, mr timmermans, that the commission has finally decided to open an infringement procedure and that a resolution will be put to the vote at the next plenary session. mr orbán, you cannot play with freedoms, especially in a country whose history is that of hungary.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would first like to thank the two vice-presidents of the commission and commissioner marianne thyssen for presenting this ambitious initiative. finally, the social dimension of the social market economy is emphasised, which has been too often forgotten, just as it has often been forgotten that the citizen should be at the heart of our priorities. it is true that there is an urgent need to respond to the need to protect our fellow citizens in a changing world of work. it is also important to support those whose lives make them more vulnerable, and to work towards greater convergence of our social standards in order to combat the dumping that fuels euroscepticism. all this, of course, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. however, the best social policy is to return to employment, because only growth can bring about sustainable social progress. what is the point of talking about growth all the time if we are not to redistribute the benefits? our group is the heir to the christian democracy which gave europe so many founding fathers, a europe which has itself been deeply imbued with it. this is why our group is committed to the social dimension of european policy, but all this can only be done with the goodwill of all and the support of the social partners. each one will bear the responsibility.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the foundation of social rights is centred on the euro area, which is very fragile, with high levels of poverty and an unemployment rate two points higher than that of the non-euro area. it is motivated, in your view, by a competitive social market economy and the need to overcome the crisis, but it is motivated above all by the progress of economic and monetary union, to the detriment of national specificities. in some of your publications you even question the performance of national social systems. you are promoting supposedly benevolent tools, such as the harmonization of social security systems and gender equality through the reconciliation of public and private life, but this does not hide the reality. in france, a country still privileged, it now takes two people from the same household to work to earn the same income as one person did 20 years ago. your so-called conquest of women's rights is in fact only the assertion of an economic and family obligation, not necessarily a choice or a fulfillment. let us therefore let women choose their professional life, according to their education and as they wish. let's not force them.
in writing. social europe has been abandoned by brussels. the social and fiscal dumping has nailed the coffin of the social acquis to the wall. the 'european pillar of social rights' seems to have a laudable objective of putting social issues back at the heart of european policies. in reality, this vague concept is a declaration of principles or good intentions. commissioner thyssen confirmed this in writing: 'the framework is not intended to harmonise the situation in the member states, but rather to express a number of principles. other far from the concerns of the citizens, the commission offers us the pincer and a social sex mask. we do not believe in the unification of social systems in europe. the differences between countries are too dramatic: the minimum wage (gross) in bulgaria is 235 euros against 1 480 euros in france (source eurostat, february 2017). we refuse to level the playing field. in the name of 'budgetary sustainability', brussels is seeking to challenge the social acquis in each state. we call on the commission to focus on improving its own performance.
in writing. for too long, social europe has been seen as the "arlesian" of the european project. today the commission is proposing a promising social pillar which should become the foundation of our common market. we cannot put our companies and our employees in competition without setting fair rules, without guaranteeing prospects for improving living conditions for all. europe is currently perceived by the most vulnerable workers as the instrument of lower wages and working conditions. it's time to redefine a minimum set of rights that preserves our welfare states. these welfare states, born of the post-war period, are the european union's distinctive feature in the world and the basis for the peace of our societies. the rise of tensions in europe and the rise of populism are symptoms of the erosion of our social protection and the sense of injustice that arises among those who lose their jobs because of unfair competition and social dumping. this social pillar must therefore become the promise of a europe that really protects its citizens and pulls everyone upwards.
madam president, i would like to emphasize an event that took place yesterday in turkey - one of many. in the city of diyarbakir, six churches, including one that is over 1,700 years old, have been seized under the pretext of urban redevelopment. the seizure is part of a policy whereby christians are systematically persecuted or displaced in the near and middle east. mr. erdoğan, this is islamic totalitarianism; mr. erdoğan, it is the support for terrorism by the group "islamic state"; mr erdoğan is your privileged partner here in the european parliament. what are you going to do with this economic agreement you're going to get us out of? what are you going to do about visa liberalisation? commissioner, rather than attacking you and your friends, mrs le pen, you should save your lessons for your friend mr erdoğan.
madam president, indeed, getting 51% in a referendum on constitutional reform during a state of emergency, with muzzled media, journalists, professors, magistrates and even mps in prison - not to mention electoral fraud - is not an electoral success, to say the least. this will not be enough - at least this is my view - to change a constitution peacefully and give almost full powers to a president who would see himself as president for life. turkey, which occupies a strategic position in the middle east, must remain a partner of the european union, but not in defiance of our values. the european union must stand up for the turkish people and not cut ties with turkey, but, as parliament has asked, suspend negotiations with turkey until mr erdoğan has regained his composure. the european parliament has assumed its responsibilities, and the commission should take its responsibilities.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by lambert van nistelrooij and constanze krehl, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the structural reform support programme for 2017-2020 (com(2015) 0701 c8-0373/2015 2015/0263 ((cod)) (a80374/2016).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries on the structural reform support programme. fisheries are covered through the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). this structural reform support programme will make it possible to use part of the technical assistance provided for in the emff. the committee on fisheries is concerned about the possible use of this funding for structural reforms not linked to fisheries. there is nothing to prevent a member state from reallocating part of the technical assistance from the emff to other themes. the emff is a fund dedicated to fisheries and it must remain so. the contribution of the emff to the structural reform support programme should therefore be directed towards the implementation of reforms linked to the implementation of the common fisheries policy. it'll be useful. the member states are facing major difficulties in implementing the landing obligation introduced by the 2013 reform of the common fisheries policy. they will therefore be able to use the structural reform support programme to implement measures in this area.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the issue of heritage is essential in our societies today, which are destabilised. the word "patrimony" comes from the latin patrimonium, which means "patrimony of the father". in times of crisis, it is linked to this need for a carnal connection with our ancestors, with this constitutive history of peoples and nations. that is why, a priori, i very much welcomed the intention of this parliament to make 2018 the year of cultural heritage. i must admit, however, that i am somewhat disappointed with the outcome of the trilogue negotiations. in my view, the initial €8 million or the €15 million requested by our rapporteur will not change anything if the objectives for this year remain the same. the current structure suggests more a large marketing operation for the european union than actions that are fully useful for the safeguarding of cultural property in europe. i didn't see anything about protecting religious buildings, for example. in france, more than 10,000 churches are threatened with destruction. in conclusion, i would say that perhaps the best way to celebrate this year would be to start by recognizing and valuing the diversity of national cultures... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, with regard to the edf discharge we propose to grant, allow me to make a few opening remarks. the edf is one of the largest budgets for official development assistance in the world, that is indisputable. but given the immensity of the challenges facing africa, it will soon prove - i fear - insufficient. these challenges, you know, are poverty, health emergencies, climate emergencies, population growth. as for demographics, let me draw your attention to a few figures: by 2100, the population of the african continent will be close to 4.5 billion on a planet of 11 billion people, that is, one in three of the earth's inhabitants will be african. by 2100, nigeria's population will approach 900 million, roughly equivalent to all the people living on the african continent today. in the face of this reality, it is hard to say that we will be overwhelmed very quickly. as regards the discharge for the edf, we are coming to the end of a long procedure and i would of course like to thank all my colleagues, the european court of auditors and the european commission for their help. all the discussions we have had have made it possible to identify certain difficulties and bottlenecks which are unfortunately not new, which we repeat every year and for which the european parliament is asking the commission to make further efforts. we ask it in particular to reduce the still too high error levels and to tackle the most frequent errors, to take more account of key information to limit the error rate and, of course, to strengthen ex ante controls. however, we also congratulate the commission on the many improvements we have seen, particularly in the reduction of old pre-financing, commitments still to be settled and contracts that have expired. we also ask the commission to provide the european parliament with more information on certain expenditure, in particular those which are subject to reservations expressed by the commission itself, and in particular for the african peace facility, for which we now expect concrete, immediate and effective responses. we are also making proposals to improve the performance and efficiency of the edf. i will not go into detail, but it is about typologies, causes, blockages, and also about providing for the suspension of a project when it is classified as red. then we have the problem of outsourcing a number of tasks, particularly through trust funds and international organisations. finally, the resolution requested for discharge encourages a fair balance, which is essential, between effective management and control and sufficient flexibility to enable the achievement of development objectives.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank commissioner oettinger, mr borg and mr lehne for their comments. the council's presence is all the more interesting in the case of the edf, since you know that it is outside the eu budget and is the result of the member states' contribution. many issues were raised: the question of error rates - i will not go into it again - the margin for improvement for the edf is large - as are those of performance and efficiency. as regards performance and efficiency, these are difficult issues for the edf, as you know that objectives can be weakened by crises, both climatic and political, and wars. but we must also take into account that we are at a time when the peoples of europe are tending to retreat to the continental frontiers, at a time when there is also a sense of despair in europe. in this context, we must provide evidence that aid to third countries, to acp countries, reaches its destination, that it can achieve performance and, above all, that it is controlled. that is why we have taken this audit very seriously, because i believe it is the very guarantee of the sustainability of this absolutely necessary development aid policy.
the committee on regional development has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, what overfishing are the overseas countries guilty of? in the indian ocean, where i come from, the reunionese fish 0.16% of the total catch, or no more than 2 500 tonnes of the 1 600 000 tonnes caught in our waters by the international and european fleets. that is the injustice and that is what our amendment is trying to correct! what we are asking for is reasonable because it is conditional - as you know - on strict compliance with the principles of sustainability laid down by the cfp. the report of the committee on regional development made the same proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the outermost regions of the union are in crisis and face great poverty. throughout the world, the union buys fishing rights and in some of these regions, it is european resources that are sold to third countries. article 349 of the treaty considers the outermost regions to be exceptions because of their geographical remoteness, over-cost and high poverty areas. today, this article has not been applied to fishing, which is why the fleet renewal exception is justified. we are talking about small-scale fishing and small, old and unsuitable vessels. today, chlorodecone, for example in the west indies, prevents fishermen from living off their work in the coastal strip or forces them to take excessive risks. all the environmental and ecological precautions have been taken in the amendment which many of us in the house are proposing. under no circumstances is there any intention to increase capacity. we also respect the maximum sustainable yield. this involves replacing old boats with new ones. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to show european solidarity and not to give in to misinformation.
mr president, mr hoyer, in 2012, with philippe maystadt, we asked ourselves the question: how can we make transfers between the north and the south, when these transfers no longer exist, or were poorly done at the time? we thought that the european central bank could play a role - it does - but above all the eib. the question therefore arises of a share of the eib's financing. wouldn't it be better to go directly to the central bank and not to the market? currently, the central bank is buying debt, it would be smarter for it to invest in projects. secondly, is the european investment bank suited to risk, i.e. to investment in the south? thirdly, can it particularly scale up projects from a to z, when there is no longer a market and when a spatial planning policy has to be made? should not an investment agency be set up within the eib, particularly between the north and the south?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all, i will of course address the president of the eurogroup and tell him that i regret, as do many of my colleagues, the remarks he has recently made about the countries of the south, because the social distress experienced by many of our fellow citizens deserves better than caricatures and it seemed to me to be an insult to all those who work in those countries. let us take greece, for example, where this social distress is felt far more strongly than anywhere else. almost half of the young people under 25 are unemployed, almost half of a generation is sacrificed, thousands of people are suffering and the health system is in trouble. we all have to make an effort to understand. of course, understanding does not mean apologising and, as the commissioner has rightly said, we must not be complacent. if greece is in this situation today, it must be remembered that it is largely because of some of its leaders, such as mr tsipras, who, because of his lack of will to make reforms, at the beginning of his takeover, led us into this populist impasse. today, we finally see that there is a commitment to reform. the situation is improving slowly. we must achieve a lasting improvement and we hope, of course, that the second tranche of aid can be released before the summer. the difficulties we are also facing with the imf may be an opportunity to put to rest the question of europe's independence in matters of macroeconomic surveillance and lending as a last resort. we cannot continue to give in to the imf's whims. to this end, i strongly believe that the european stability mechanism must be transformed into a genuine european monetary fund. i think that for greece, for the euro area, for the rest of europe, this is a challenge for the future.
mr president, mr president of the eurogroup, thank you for your words of encouragement. i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament, and i am particularly pleased that the council has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament. we are counting on you to maintain a reasonable balance between those who want more and more and those who talk about excessive concessions. there is a kind of negotiating strategy here which leads to putting greece in the position of the prisoner's dilemma from which you must help us to escape. from this point of view, time is against us. we still have a chance to get out of this trap, this prisoner's dilemma: the eurogroup of 22 may. your responsibility in coming here, finally, before this european parliament is to come to that conclusion, because what is at work today is devastating, we know that very well. not for the euro zone but first for the greek economy which we are trying to get back on track. when you see that 14 gdp points were lost between 2009 and 2016, that the primary balance moved by 17 points over the same period and that nothing has yet been done on the substantial debt relief for greece, you see where the problem is. finally, i would like to say that it will come as no surprise to anyone that if this strategy is pursued, the unsustainable greek debt will continue to rise. mr president of the eurogroup, thank you for being with us today, but we count on your full commitment to the eurogroup meeting on 22 may to conclude this review.
madam president, greece is bankrupt and for a long time. the eurogroup granted a third aid package of €86 billion to the country in 2015. in return, he demanded even more austerity, even though the poverty is already intolerable. the state has had to organize the distribution of soup for those who have nothing and infant mortality is rising sharply. the eurogroup also called for further privatisation to feed a fund to recapitalise the banks. it's like a dream. the truth is that the union is largely responsible for the greek bankruptcy. it should never have brought greece into the eurozone, because the euro is far too strong a currency for it. the only solution to save greece is to cancel part of its debt and let it take back its national currency to revive its economy and especially its tourism. but the union will never admit this, because it has neither the lucidity nor the heart to do so.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few moments. i'm adjourning the court for a moment. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam thyssen, ladies and gentlemen, the european union wants to establish a european framework for certifications for lifelong learning. the objective seems to be quite commendable, since it is about ensuring a better match between the skills available and those lacking in the labour market. furthermore, the idea of taking account of the three levels of knowledge seems to us to be relevant. knowledge, skills and competences can be acquired formally and informally. unfortunately, the motion for a resolution devotes an entire paragraph - paragraph 7 - to the inclusion of migrants and we are firmly opposed to this policy, given the 25 million unemployed in europe, 4 million of whom are young people. on the other hand, we are concerned that these equivalencies will level down and thus devalue our training and qualifications. moreover, this question of equivalence raises the wider question of mobility. this greater equivalence of skills is in fact used as a pretext for developing the mobility of workers, thus promoting social dumping, which is a source of more precariousness. finally, the european union has already tried in the past to standardize training without real success and this new system does not seem destined to be more successful. for all these reasons, madam president, madam thyssen, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against this text and table amendments so that this framework does not become mandatory. member states should remain free to recognise formal or informal qualifications according to their own criteria and needs. you are wrong: new regulations are needed to preserve fair competition and not to encourage even more unfair competition between east and west, or even new competition between european migrants and the unemployed.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleague, mrs borzan, and all the fictitious rapporteurs for the fruitful exchanges on this subject which has been close to my heart for a very long time. worldwide, some studies indicate that one third of all food is wasted every year. these thousands of tonnes could feed 200 million people across europe. food waste is not only ethical, but also environmental, social and economic nonsense. we need to improve consumer information, including understanding of the dates on packaging, and to restore value to our food. research and innovation also have a role to play, both in reducing food waste and in food security. it is also necessary to encourage the donation of unsold products by reducing or even eliminating vat and by establishing agreements between economic operators and charitable associations to recover these unsold products. but to encourage donations, we must also ensure that these food aid organisations have the means to collect them, otherwise it would be a waste of money. i have proposed an amendment on the paragraph on unsuitable fruit and vegetables. some of the waste is actually the result of the imposition of standards by distributors on producers to meet consumer expectations. but i remain convinced that there is a need to seriously analyse the consequences of these standards both for food waste and for farmers' earnings. however, promoting ugly fruit and vegetables is, in my view, more about the short-term effect than the long-term solution. the supply of unpalatable fruit and vegetables is random; but to make a chain work, you need a sustainable supply. furthermore, this paragraph calls for the encouragement and development of these markets, but what about the farmers who currently supply the fruit and vegetable distribution chains? be careful not to create unfair competition. the solution, i believe, is to better educate and inform consumers, and to analyse the consequences of their demands and behaviour. i am, however, convinced of the importance of this report and of the need to give it broad support in order to send a strong message.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, in my country, france, 20 kilos of food waste are wasted per capita every year. apart from the financial cost, which is between eur 110 and 150 per person, this is not acceptable in a country where four million people receive food aid. i am of course in favour of this text, which stresses the need for a clear definition of food waste so that it can be quantified and reduced as far as possible. similarly, it is more than urgent to ensure that citizens better understand the difference between the words 'to consume until' and 'preferably before', since misunderstandings can lead to absurd waste. secondly, it is commendable that this report considers variable pricing based on deadline as an effective tool. indeed, financial incentives are always preferable to a punitive approach. i also support the idea that supermarkets, but also local authorities, must play a key role in reducing waste. the latter are best placed to promote short-distance and local products, especially to young people. at the same time, it is essential to ensure that all foodstuffs approaching their expiry date are donated to charity, which is clearly not yet a given. finally, the report does not place enough emphasis on the opportunities offered by new technologies. for example, some apps allow customers to buy at a reduced price the unsold items from restaurants or shops. these are, of course, future prospects which need to be exploited.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his work on a subject which is, i would say, a real scandal. why would you do that? because, from a social point of view, on the one hand, 10% of the population in europe does not even have access to a quality meal and more than 23% are in precarious circumstances and, on the other hand - it has been said - 88 million tonnes of food are wasted and a third of the food produced for human consumption is lost. this is therefore not sustainable, either from a social or environmental point of view. there's a lot of fuss about it at cop21 and you find out that agriculture accounts for a quarter of all water consumption, an area as large as china and about 10 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, and not all of it is used. so yes, i welcome this report and i think we need to have binding targets, like for energy. it'll be through sobriety. we need to teach our children that food is not just any commodity. we must also be more efficient, which will require better technology, but also better information, because the difference between the words 'preferably consumed before' and the expiry dates is very little known to consumers. i therefore think that a clarification is necessary. we also need a coherent cap policy. how can we, on the one hand, have a common agricultural policy that boosts productivity and, on the other hand, want to eliminate food waste? it is therefore up to us in europe to act, and i think this is a real european problem which must be tackled in the member states to reduce this food waste.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by tiziana beghin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the evaluation of the external aspects of the functioning and organisation of customs as a tool for trade facilitation and the fight against fraud (a8-0162/2017)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. mr president, this text is in addition to the many proposals that the european parliament has been making for a long time to improve cooperation between member states and the vigilance of all actors in customs matters. the fight against unfair competition is a priority and our customs services, which do a remarkable job, must have the means to achieve this ambition. without jeopardising new forms of trade, such as e-commerce, or international trade, the european union must bring coherence within its own internal market if it is to continue to develop coherence in international trade through the wto or trade agreements. the fight against fraud is one of these objectives, as is the reduction of administrative errors which may occur due to the complexity of certain procedures. all these parameters must be taken into account and i hope that the european commission and, above all, the member states will take these proposals into account in order to better coordinate the difficult but very important work of our customs services.
the agenda calls for the report by sabine verheyen on the european action plan 2016-2020 for e-government (a8-0178/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, i would like to draw your attention to a request from the united nations special equality agency, un women. even today, on the calendar of our institutions, events and official announcements around 8 march are entitled 'international women's day' or 'women's day'. this imprecision encourages the most vague interpretations that we see thriving with each new "women's day". it is important to remember that this day is not a celebration of absolute and eternal femininity, much less an opportunity for the large retailers to sell off household appliances or cosmetics. on the contrary, it must make it possible to combat the very real obstacles to women's autonomy and security. it is a time of awareness and mobilisation, which is essential for our anti-discrimination commitments. and we know that language is a key issue in the fight for gender equality. this is why we must be specific and talk about 'international women's rights day' in the same way we celebrate 'human rights day'. that is why i have endorsed this request by un women and ask that the terms of our institutions' calendars be clarified.
madam president, in the name of our own resolutions, in the name of international law, in the name of the geneva convention, the application of which the european union recognises, we cannot remain silent about the hunger strike that the palestinian political prisoners have had to start. the strike, which began on 17 april, is aimed at obtaining conditions of detention in accordance with humanitarian law and to put an end to the arbitrariness of administrative detention. continuing to ignore these humanitarian demands can lead to even more tensions in the palestinian population which can, in turn, lead to the worst. we therefore have a responsibility to act. i propose that our parliament establish a committee of inquiry into the situation of palestinian prisoners. on the other hand, our silence in the face of imprisonment and colonization makes us complicit in the violation of international law. the european union has an effective means of pressure, however, with the suspension of the association agreement with israel. we now propose to act.
this item has been closed.
the court adjourned at 10.45 p.m.
madam president, commissioner, the question of refugees is a matter of obligation to us, because it concerns lives, hopes and destinies. as you said in your conclusion, this is both an obligation and a moral duty. this moral duty and obligation obliges us to be fair, which simply means, from a legal point of view as well, that we must respect our commitments. all states must abide by it and it is not acceptable that some simply decide to no longer participate in the decisions they themselves have constructed and taken. there are two absolute urgencies: to deal with bottlenecks and to reduce decision-making delays. this is extremely important, not only for italy and greece, but for our european policies. secondly, in the face of this situation, we also have a moral duty towards the vulnerable. priority must be given to children. in europe, we cannot leave these children to be the victims of smugglers, traffickers and human trafficking. i have heard from reports that some states have flatly refused to relocate these unaccompanied minors. this refugee issue is a question of who we are. we have to live up to it.
madam president, in the new european language, we refuse to call a cat a cat. the union is modestly calling for relocations. in reality, it has decided on a settlement policy: 50 million migrants by 2060, according to the admission of commissioner avramopoulos on 8 june 2015. the aim is twofold: to bring in a low-cost labour force to enable companies to increase their profits and to break down national identities to turn citizens into docile consumers. the spearhead of this crazy policy is the juncker plan of september 2015, which requires the eu states to relocate 160,000 migrants who have arrived in greece and italy. this is obviously only the beginning and the states have understood this well; that is why many are resisting, as in hungary and poland. i encourage them to continue their resistance, because every nation has the right to defend its identity against the flood of migration.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, on the subject of globalisation and trade links with beijing, i got back from there only a few hours ago, and if i look tired it is because of the long flight from beijing. today we are discussing the reflection paper on harnessing or shaping globalisation. we are not passive in this regard, but rather an active operator in shaping or harnessing globalisation. this is the second of five planned reflection papers to steer the broad debate on the future of the eu further, following publication of the white paper on 1 march. it takes an honest look at what globalisation has brought to the eu. the fact is that, even if the eu has greatly benefited from globalisation, this means little to our citizens if the benefits are not shared fairly and more evenly. the benefits of globalisation are numerous. people travel, work, learn and live in different countries. they interact with each other on the web, sharing their ideas, cultures and experiences. students have online access to courses run by leading universities across the world. countries can produce more for less by specialising in what they do best and exploiting economies of scale. international competition and scientific cooperation have accelerated innovation. european exports have grown as customers worldwide demand the high—quality goods and services we supply. eighty percent of our exporters are small and medium—sized companies so the beneficiaries of global value chains are those european smes and their workers. actually, eur 1 billion of exports supports 14 000 jobs in the eu. imports are equally important as 80% of them consist of raw materials, capital goods and components necessary for the eu economy to function. globalisation has also helped lift hundreds of millions of people out of poverty and has enabled poorer countries to catch up. but globalisation also brings challenges. the benefits of globalisation are not shared evenly between regions and people. many europeans are concerned that globalisation is leading to inequality, job losses and social injustice or to a lowering of environmental health and privacy standards. for instance, countries with lower wages, environmental standards or taxes have increasingly competed with europe in low-skill and low-value-added segments of industry, leading to factory closures, job losses or downward pressure on our workers’ pay and conditions. some foreign companies and governments have engaged in unfair trade practices, such as dumping, tax evasion or subsidisation, that can lead to overcapacity and unfair advantages. these strategies deprive eu governments of tax revenues and contribute to unfairness. many citizens consider that globalisation and uncontrolled migration directly threaten their identity and way of life. citizens are anxious about not being able to control their own future, let alone the future of their children. these concerns must be recognised and addressed. however, the solution lies neither in isolationism, which has led to disastrous outcomes in the past, nor in laissez-faire politics. the evidence presented in the reflection paper shows clearly that globalisation can be beneficial where it is properly harnessed. the eu must ensure a better distribution of the benefits of globalisation by working together with member states and regions, as well as with international partners and other stakeholders. together we should seize the opportunity to shape globalisation, in line with our own values and interests, in order to respond to its opportunities and challenges. the question is how to do so, and it is vital to have an open and wide-ranging debate about that. the reflection paper offers some ideas in this respect. on the external front, the paper focuses on the need to shape a truly sustainable global order, based on shared values and a common agenda. the eu has always stood for a strong and effective multilateral global rulebook, and it should continue to develop this. for example, the eu could push for new rules and higher standards to create a level playing field by addressing harmful and unfair behaviour such as tax evasion, government subsidies or social dumping. effective trade-defence instruments and better enforcement of domestic and international rules could also help the eu to act decisively against countries or companies that engage in unfair practices. the eu’s progressive trade and investment agreements should continue not only to open markets in a reciprocal way but also to enhance global governance on issues including human rights, working conditions, food safety and environmental protection. on the domestic front, the paper insists on the need to protect and empower citizens through robust social policies and to provide the necessary education and training support throughout their lives. this will equip people for the future and will redistribute wealth more fairly. the paper also underlines the importance of ensuring that europe remains a competitive and innovative economy that will allow it to maintain its leading role in the world. this requires a vision for the future, in order to modernise our economy by embracing digitalisation, technological and social innovations, decarbonisation and the circular economy. it also requires smart specialisation, smart digital, industrial, tax or innovation policies and an improvement in the business environment. the eu cannot achieve all of this by itself. it is a shared responsibility, not only of the eu and the member states but also of regions and municipalities throughout europe. the main word we have to assess carefully is ‘resilience’. what are the policies needed in order to strength the resilience of our people – our citizens – and also our member states?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens are very concerned about globalisation and this is what is fuelling populism of all kinds in europe. this was also the case recently in france, during the campaign leading up to the presidential elections, where the extremes won 40% of the votes in the first round. i therefore commend the commission for its efforts to educate the public on europe's place in the world and on the practical responses to be implemented. the european union must live with globalisation, but it must also manage it, and we must not turn in on ourselves. however, the european union must actively defend itself to avoid suffering the harmful consequences of globalisation, which is sometimes uncontrolled. in addition, as you said, mr commissioner, fairness in the sharing of the benefits is essential. the modernisation of the union, of our economy and of the instruments of trade defence must therefore be accelerated urgently so that the case of steel, for example, is not isolated. we need to be more ambitious on reciprocal access to public procurement and support our industry rather than buying elsewhere what is produced in europe. our companies must be able to compete on an international level, our jobs depend on it. by 2050, no single european country will be among the ten largest economies. the european union therefore sees this as a major reason for its existence. how can we negotiate a trade agreement when we have a paltry economic weight against countries like china, india or the united states? this is where european expertise in this area is essential. i would therefore like to see us being more ambitious, because your reflection paper is a good thing, but it does not go far enough. i would have liked a concrete action plan on such essential issues as controlling foreign investment in strategic areas - that is what guarantees jobs - because employment is the only social response for our citizens. globalisation will only be successful if the european union is not afraid of the challenges it faces.
for the greens/efa group mr commissioner, mr president, you have just discovered that globalisation generates losers. well, good for you for being so clear-headed. you just found out that globalization was twice the size of the planet, that there was twice as much predation on resources, twice as much pollution. good for you for your foresight! you have just discovered, at your expense, thanks to the court of justice of the european union, that you cannot make a trade policy against the citizens who had mobilized through petitions against tafta and against ceta. you have just learned at your expense, thanks to the court of justice, that you cannot make a commercial policy against national parliaments. but what you propose is always the same: either globalization, that is to say, continuing - doing a little better, communicating a little better - to put territories, employees and the choices of society in competition and, thus, to build the extreme right, or isolationism and the extreme right which, incidentally, in britain today, want only free trade. there's a third way. it is to subordinate trade policies to climate policies such as the paris agreement, health issues, social rights and democracy. so then europe will protect the... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, you are being absolutely cynical. you have deliberately thrown the peoples of europe into the most dizzying, most dangerous globalisation with your policy of absolute free trade and the string of treaties you have imposed, with your policy of submerging migration which aims at the collapse of the identity of our nations and of european civilization, with your submission to diplomatic and strategic interests which are not those of nations or continents, from the atlantic to the urals. so when you hear about the ravages of globalisation, first make your mea culpa.
mr president, the commission has turned a blind eye to the harmful effects of globalisation for more than 20 years. she was one of the active craftsmen, executing it with great zeal, and now she admits that there may be problems. that's good, but it's not enough. if i read the reflection paper published last week, i see nothing but a reaffirmation of the inevitability of globalisation, its mainly beneficial character analysed in purely accounting terms. the future actions envisaged, apart from greater control of national policies, are mainly the continuation of current policies. as long as you remain in the world trade organisation system, in the system of a general free trade of the uncontrolled free movement of people, goods and capital, you will not be able to protect europeans from the harmful effects of globalisation, starting with those resulting from unfair competition for low-wage and slave-like jobs outside the european union.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken out against protectionism. however, do you accept that, in accordance with age-old practice, customs duties - which have never completely stopped trade - can, for example, compensate for the advantage that an exporter would derive from the low wages he earns at home?
mr president, mr vice-president, controlling globalisation means first and foremost establishing fair and fair competition. all economic actors must respect the same rules. we do not want any more of this naive europe which opens its markets without any counterpart. the commission is finally beginning to talk, albeit timidly, about reciprocity. it is high time that it made this a pillar of its trade policy, as we have been asking for many years. our unity must be our strength and we must demonstrate it by acting in concert. we must also fight against all forms of dumping, whether social, environmental or fiscal, and therefore i hope that the discussions on modernising trade defence instruments will soon be concluded and will allow them to be strengthened. finally, i would like to recall that it is with this view of controlling globalisation that i and my colleagues in the epp group have called for the commission to legislate on foreign investment. we cannot allow foreign investors to take over strategic sectors in europe any longer. the commission must follow up this approach as quickly as possible.
mr president, after so many years of blindness and naivete, the european commission is finally recognising that liberal globalisation can also have negative effects and is helping to create a great deal of inequality between those who are winning a lot and those who are suffering from it. finally, for the first time, it emphasises the need for reciprocity in public procurement and investment, as well as in trade defence instruments. i think that we must now move from words to deeds. yes, it is possible to have progressive trade agreements, but for that we need more rules, more environmental standards, more social standards and more democratic oversight. yes, it is possible to protect european industries but to do so, we must have the courage to introduce a 'buy european act', as all the big nations do to protect their companies. finally, if we are to truly regulate globalisation, we must tackle the root of the problem, which is tax optimisation and tax evasion. to do this, we need to include tax conditionality in our trade agreements to create a fairer world. so it is time to act.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, our collective inability to put an end to the syrian tragedy is not only a moral tragedy vis-à-vis hundreds of thousands of victims, it is also a diplomatic failure which seriously undermines any prospect of stability in europe's neighbourhood. therefore, no diplomatic effort should be spared to help find a solution. the strategy you are presenting is in many ways still terribly out of step with a reality whose horror seems to know no bounds. at least it has the merit of recalling some principles of a solution. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. of course, europe is far from the only one to blame for this failure. others have even more weighty responsibilities. the regime, which has been playing the worst-case scenario from the beginning, but which still has support and a reality, not only in moscow and tehran. jihadist groups, who thrive on chaos and spread terror on a scale never seen before. irresponsible regional powers for whom syria is nothing more than a training ground for their own ambitions. and the great powers who don't seem to realize how much their so-called strategic visions are actually sordid little short-term calculations that are fueling the crisis and have turned it from a civil war into a lasting regional conflagration. unfortunately, europe is not yet a key player in the settlement of this conflict. we should perhaps have a more realistic approach to the balance of power, perhaps more modest ambitions, but at any rate a constant willingness to exert all possible influence on those who have a share of syria's fate in their hands. our humanitarian, financial and political levers, which you mentioned, must be focused on achievable objectives. there can be no other more pressing priorities on your agenda.
mr president, the westerners have no strategy. the european policy on syria is suicidal. your position, that neither bashar al-assad nor daesh is tenable, madam high commissioner. the west is pursuing a pro-islamist strategy, which is to play the sunni islamist card to contain russia and arab nationalism. you're more concerned with systematically targeting russia than fighting islamic terrorism, which you encourage. therefore, madam high commissioner, the best advice i can give you today is this: do nothing more in syria. today, in my opinion, the only state capable of restoring peace and showing that it has a real military, political and operational capacity is syria. it is the country which is now at the origin of the solution which we must find to bring peace to the middle east.
mr president, madam high representative, a little over six months ago i visited a syrian refugee camp in turkey. i was able to measure the work that was being done by both the un and, above all, by the ngos, which were allowing these syrian refugees to live in almost acceptable conditions. but the syrians we were able to talk to had only one desire: to return to their country. and i do believe that humanitarian aid is a good thing, but that today we need to go much further. we must try to find a political solution because we have rarely seen conflicts resolved by war. i'm a firm believer in the political solution. it is complicated, it is true, because in this sector, there are the russians, the americans, iran and turkey with the kurdish question as well. it is complicated but i believe you are on the right track and that we must do everything possible to achieve this political solution.
madam president, liberate, protect and rebuild: these three objectives should be our objectives in the question of the christians of the east, which we are addressing today. to free the christians of the east from the gangrene which threatens them directly. we cannot do everything, but we can demand that they finally have freedom of religion, that the crime of blasphemy be abolished in the muslim states with which we have diplomatic relations and that the mention of religion be removed from identity documents. protect, because without lasting peace for the peoples of the near and middle east, we know that we may one day be the next victims. we should send international observers or facilitate their sending. finally, we must rebuild, because these peoples and communities have no desire to migrate to us. they do not want to leave their country, but rather to stay there or to return when they are forced to leave.
madam president, madam high representative, at the beginning of the 20th century, a quarter of the population of the middle east was christian. today, it is 3%. we can't say we didn't know any more. of course, iraqi and coalition forces are making progress and achieving successes in liberating iraqi territories captured by the islamic state group. as we speak, daesh now holds only 10% of the city of mosul, but these military successes should not be allowed to obscure reality. christians in karacoche have certainly celebrated easter 2017 in their city, symbolically. yet most of the people in the region are unwilling or unable to return to their homes. in iraq, where i visited last year, christians have been victims of genocidal attacks and continue to leave their country. so, if we are to welcome suffering christians, we are also obligated to help them, especially in the nineveh plain, to rebuild their city. the iraqi state is more concerned with its strategic motives in the context of the sunni-shia conflict than with the fate of the christians. in the face of barbarism, europe has the opportunity to speak with one voice and to challenge consciences before it is too late.
madam president, madam high representative, as far as christians in the east are concerned, the european union must go beyond speeches of good intentions and polite generalities on human rights. we cannot allow daesh to reshape the middle east and eradicate christian minorities. when muslims are attacked around the world, muslim countries respond. when jews are attacked, israel responds. europe, which has christian roots - whether we like it or not - must also make its voice heard. what will it say when christians are forced to leave the areas where they have traditionally been based? what are we going to do to make it possible for them to stay or come back? the european union can rely on religious authorities and local governments when they are open, but we must go further. the issue is not just respect for human rights, but also tolerance, balance and security for the middle east and, from the middle east, for the whole world. so we must act now. madam high representative, there are ways, but beyond speeches or certain initiatives on human rights, what are you really going to do in the judicial, diplomatic, coercive or even military fields to allow people to stay or to return home?
madam president, massacres, murders, persecutions, extortions, humiliations, rapes, kidnappings, monasteries and churches destroyed, plundered, evictions, exodus... i have to say that i am not happy with the way in which the european parliament has been treated. the history of the christians of the east is tragic and their daily life a real ordeal. on april 16th, christians in the west and christians in the east celebrated easter. unfortunately, the echo of the eastern bells responding to the sound of our church bells is weakening and if the western chanceries persist in confining themselves to mere protestations of usage, soon this echo will die out. the recent attacks on the copts in egypt remind us of this. christians in the east are the target of islamist groups who want to purge the middle east of their presence. the eastern christian communities, among the oldest in the world, are now in abeyance, even though they were established several centuries ago, long before the arab-muslim conquests. at the beginning of the 20th century, nearly one in four people in the middle east was christian. today, christian communities account for 3 to 4 per cent of the population of the middle east. they are now only 11 million, a mere drop in the bucket in a population of 320 million muslims. under the pretext of exporting democracy by bombing iraq to libya, our governments have allowed the emergence of jihadist groups. it is urgent that the western countries adopt a realistic international policy. it is not doing the christians of the east any service to demonize the syrian and russian governments while negotiating with turkey and prostituting themselves with the sponsors of international jihadism, the gulf petro-monarchies.
in writing. the christians of the east are not only the guarantors of the legacy of the early christians, but also of the future of the middle east. it is their presence that allows for a peaceful coexistence between sunnis and shiites. this presence is undermined by islamist militias, including but not limited to the self-proclaimed islamic state and the former al-nusra front. eu member states, by arming some of these groups, have contributed to the gradual disappearance of eastern christians from their homeland. and the european union, by giving legitimacy and credibility to the syrian islamist opposition in the unrealistic hope of getting bashar al-assad to go, also bears a heavy responsibility. i call on you to be consistent: the european union cannot, without saying a word, praise the development of multiculturalism and diversity for itself in the morning and encourage their disappearance where they have already existed for many centuries, in the afternoon. i therefore welcome the change, albeit belated, in mrs mogherini's position on the political future that is deemed acceptable for syria. in breaking with the demand until the end of the term for the departure of bashar al-assad, it half-heartedly admits that supporting an islamist opposition was a mistake. it's still a case of condemning this one.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, dear colleagues, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you for taking this timely initiative to discuss the dadaab refugee camp situation. you know the facts. in may 2016 the kenyan government announced its decision to close down the camp in the near future, citing security concerns and the need to end the protracted refugee situation. on 13 november the government announced that the closure would be delayed by six months on humanitarian grounds. according to the announcement, priority was to be given to relocating non-somali refugees to other camps – and this process has started – and to reintegrating kenyans living in the camp. to date over 23 000 refugees have been returned from dadaab to somalia. this year, however, on 9 february, the kenyan high court declared the government’s decision to close the camp null and void and described the repatriation of refugees as unconstitutional and discriminatory. yet the kenyan government has not officially changed its proposed closure date, 31 may 2017. that is 16 days away. the government has recognised that the voluntary repatriation process must be implemented in accordance with the tripartite agreement between kenya, somalia and the unchr. when we consider the situation in dadaab, we must also bear in mind the existing context in the whole of africa, especially in somalia. despite some positive political developments during the past year, a renewed drought is bringing the country to its knees. famine is looming. 6.7 million people, half of the total population, are in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. 683 000 people have been internally displaced because of the drought. as a result, humanitarian partners are now preparing for a possible influx of somali refugees to neighbouring countries. we must also be aware that the eu adheres to the principle that returns must be voluntary, dignified and sustainable. given the current context, that is a real challenge, a very huge challenge, and there may be further instability ahead for a country and a region already on the brink. we must collectively commend the host communities of dadaab, the people of kenya and their government for offering sanctuary to people fleeing violence, conflict and hunger. that is the message which i personally conveyed to the kenyan government and authorities when i visited dadaab last year. the government of kenya is a driver of regional initiatives and has shown willingness to find a collective solution to this issue, in line with international standards and principles. that point was made in the mogadishu declaration of 22 february 2017, jointly endorsed by the region’s presidents, and also at the igad summit, held in nairobi on 25 march this year, on sustainable solutions for somalian refugees. the eu has already welcomed the nairobi declaration. i would like to reiterate the importance of rapid implementation of the commitments underlying it. investment in development has to be increased and better coordinated, but that is not enough. policies need to be changed, especially for job access and for living outside the camps, as well as creating conditions in somalia allowing people to go home. i am glad to know that the spirit of the nairobi declaration is reflected in the resolution of this parliament. dear colleagues, another positive milestone was the london somalia conference on 11 may 2017, just two weeks ago. the agreement on a security pact and the new partnership for somalia was an important step forward. the european union has announced an additional eur 200 million for the period up to 2020. the eu trust fund is also providing eur 50 million in somalia to support the voluntary return of somalian refugees. of course, as the european union we remain engaged in providing humanitarian assistance in the dadaab camp and somalia, in parallel with development support to foster conditions conducive to return including security and access to basic services in somalia. the commission itself has supported humanitarian assistance to refugees in kenya with nearly eur 130 million since 1996 and eur 12.7 million this year alone. at the same time the eu has intensified programmes aimed at strengthening state building and stabilising somalia. in addition, in response to the security threats coming from terrorists in somalia, we are supporting various projects to counter violent extremists with an overall budget of eur 18 million. as i said, the eu acknowledges the generosity that kenya and other countries in the region have shown to somalian refugees. we hope that the kenyan government will continue to provide protection and asylum to refugees until they can voluntarily return home. we all need to collectively support the country doing this and to do so in a way that benefits both the refugees and the host communities in dadaab. we also need to make every effort to help consolidate peace in somalia. that is the only way to resolve the protracted refugee crisis in the region. i am grateful, as the commissioner for humanitarian aid, that parliament is continuing to support the common efforts to bring about a sustainable and lasting solution to the regional refugee crisis. i welcome the resolution tabled, which seeks to further support these measures. thank you so much for your attention to this statement. i am looking forward to our in-depth discussions that will help us to see together how to evaluate the situation in the dadaab camp.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the population of dadaab is now approaching 266 000 people: 95% are from somalia and 60% are minors. this population has been growing steadily for three decades now. this is not a sustainable situation for the kenyan government, for the neighbouring countries and even less so for all the people who live there. the closure of the camp is a sovereign decision. yes, i am sure, it is motivated by a concern to protect the population from the terrorist threats of al-shabab. however, we cannot abandon the somali refugees to their fate, which will not solve the current situation and will only further destabilise the region and strengthen the terrorist groups that are promoting radicalisation. i would like to welcome the action of the union, which has allocated €286 million for the period 2014-2020 through the european development fund and the european trust fund for africa. today, as the union, we must assume our role as mediator and, above all, we must motivate an urgent regional response with three priorities: first, the return and reintegration of refugees in the spirit of the tripartite agreement signed between the united nations high commissioner for refugees, kenya and somalia. secondly, the introduction of measures to stabilise the situation in somalia, always with an approach that, going beyond the emergency response, aims at the sustainable economic and human development of the population. finally, the strengthening of political dialogue between all the countries of the region, the subregional organisations and the african union. security, the fight against terrorism and radicalisation are challenges we must address together, as partners. we must provide concrete and rapid responses that are commensurate with the dangers facing the region: famine, drought and war. it is crucial that our action is directed towards finding solutions to the main destabilising causes and thus ensuring the economic, political and human resilience of populations and states.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the dadaab camp, set up in 1991 at the beginning of the civil war in somalia, is the largest refugee camp in the world. it now hosts more than half of the 486,000 refugees in kenya. they are overwhelmingly somali and to a lesser extent south sudanese. the country is paying for its presence in somalia in the fight against the shabab and is suffering reprisals, as in september 2013 with the 172 dead in the westgate shopping mall in nairobi and, more recently, the 148 dead at the university of garissa in 2015. fear and rejection are rising among the kenyan population. as elsewhere, refugees seem to be becoming an increasingly important electoral issue. there is a recurrent blackmail to close the camps and forced returns are increasing despite the dangerous and deteriorating situation in somalia and despite the fact that 86% of somalis refuse to do so. we talk about tackling the root causes of migration, but this requires first of all solidarity, while the proposed responses are increasingly military and security-related. worse, unhcr has only raised 15 percent of the $215 million it needs to care for refugees in kenya, as drought continues to worsen the health situation. we are heading for an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe. it's an emergency. the international community bears a heavy responsibility and european policies are not up to the drama that is playing out here. humanitarian aid is totally inadequate.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is world day against homophobia and at the same time chechnya is hunting down homosexuals. being gay in those countries means risking death or exile. it is unacceptable to remain silent in the face of this situation, to those who are undermining the values of human rights. we are the spokesmen for the victims of persecution. we call for the immediate release of the prisoners, for effective protection for all those who have denounced these heinous acts and for a serious investigation by international human rights organisations. europe must show courage in the face of what is happening in chechnya, a member state of mr putin's russian federation. next year, the same federation is to host the football world cup. while some will play football, others will be slaughtered. so tonight i call for a boycott of this world cup as long as fundamental rights are not respected in russia and its satellite states.
mr president, in 2013, - you recalled, commissioner - we welcomed the adoption by the council of the lgbti guidelines. thanks to them, we thought we had the tools to fight against homophobia, and yet, four years later, we have to admit, lgbti people in europe continue to be victims of discrimination, violence and humiliation. the situation outside the eu is also bad, as a homophobic law was passed in russia four years ago and the already deteriorating climate has worsened for lgbti people in that country. this law is the negation of the other, of his difference, and it is this climate of hatred that led to the arrest of about 100 people in april in chechnya and their detention in absolutely monstrous conditions. we must act now. people's lives are at stake. all member states must offer sanctuary to these people who are not safe in russia and european embassies must issue them visas so that they can come and seek asylum in the european union. the russian authorities must also shed light on the events of april and try to respect their human rights commitments.
in writing. we have all taken stock of the horrendous situation in chechnya where lgbt people are victims of torture, violence, inhuman and cruel treatment. under international pressure, mr putin has supported an investigation by the russian prosecutor general, but let us not be too quick to congratulate him. the prosecution has not received any complaints from victims, and for good reason! the safety of lgbt people, who are in an extremely vulnerable situation, and who cannot testify for fear of revealing their identity, should be guaranteed. they are afraid of the state, but also of their families, because the chechen authorities have not backed down from anything; even calling on the locals to kill their own homosexual relatives to clear their name. i commend the courage of local ngos who set up an emergency telephone line and organized evacuations to other russian provinces and abroad. it's our turn to live up to it. the union must put pressure on vladimir putin and ramzan kadyrov to bring an end to this situation, which is a gross violation of human rights. the governments must issue emergency visas to those fleeing chechnya.
in writing. on 4 may 2017, the european parliament's committee on international trade (inta) supported the european commission's proposal to provide €100 million to moldova. this is in addition to the €561 million already paid for the period 2007-2013 which, however, did not have the desired effect: a bank fraud revealed in 2014 involved several moldovan officials, including former prime minister vlad filat, who allegedly received €1 billion from three banks (savings bank, unibank and banca sociala). clearly, the responsible commission departments were not able to prevent this fraud. while these funds could be useful elsewhere in europe, we are concerned that european funds are being channelled through the international monetary fund (imf) and the world bank, which are also setting the agenda. in the interests of europe's independence, we call on the commission to reject any interference by us-based global organisations.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, my colleague mr karim's report contains the following comments: some parliaments have pointed out that in some of the commission's legislative proposals the justification for subsidiarity and proportionality is incomplete or even non-existent. this is the same as in the 20th, 19th and 18th reports. in this one, only one difference: no more worry, no more concern, but a simple observation. since 2010, absolutely nothing has changed. despite the calls from the national parliaments, the commission, with the assent of this parliament, continues to treat this principle with indifference and contempt, even though it was recognized as fundamental by the european council in its 1992 edinburgh declaration. this type of report therefore has no interest other than to provide purely fictitious guarantees of improvement of this principle. it is also clear that this parliament has little interest in respect for the competences of the member states and, therefore, of the peoples of europe and democracy. i therefore call on national parliaments to make full use of the means made available to them by protocol no 2, to invest more in cosac and to use all appropriate political means to enforce this principle of subsidiarity. finally, national citizens must ask their parliamentarians about this fundamental issue. they must not forget that the european union belongs to the member states and national parliaments and is therefore their property.
mr president, the 2014 annual report on subsidiarity and proportionality is a model of good language. for example, in point 1, it welcomes the 'continuing concern to respect these two principles' when in fact they are constantly violated. this sad reality is reflected in paragraph 8, which admits with regret that in 32% of cases the commission's analysis of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality is inadequate. other passages indicate that the yellow card procedure, which allows national parliaments to protest against a commission initiative, is almost entirely ineffective. the report does not propose any real solution to improve respect for the will of national parliaments. the green card mechanism, which he suggests should be created, will not solve anything because it preserves the commission's full discretion. only the granting of a veto power to each member state would be capable of respecting national sovereignty, but the report does not really envisage this, because the european union is a hundred leagues from the europe of nations, which i wish to see.
in writing. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are at the heart of the european construction. article 5 (2) teu and protocol no 2 on the application of these principles provide for a number of control mechanisms. the initial report proposed the introduction of a new red card mechanism for national parliaments. it was defended by my colleague marie-christine boutonnet during the debates in the juri committee. a green card would allow national parliaments to propose the rejection or amendment of a legislative text. i had defended the green card in my report to the envi committee on proportionality and subsidiarity. this green card would allow constructive participation by national parliaments. unfortunately, my report was rejected by most of the members of the envi committee on partisan grounds. i regret that attitude, especially on such a serious institutional issue. the situation has not changed, as the report states that 32% of impact assessments reveal insufficient application of the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, commissioner, others have said before me in this debate that 'fintech' is introducing a promising revolution. they are revolutionizing the world of science, financial services and, in particular, banking services, changing all aspects of which, whether means of payment, the allocation of credits or the management of savings. this revolution from the united states, which still accounts for 80% of invested capital, represents a considerable growth potential for europe and in many cases introduces progress appreciated by consumers, investors but also by companies, governments and even central banks. this is evidenced by the increased use of crowdfunding, which allows diversifying access to capital, the digitalisation of public services, which can help to better collect taxes and prevent tax fraud, and the use of blockchain technologies, which ensures the integrity of transaction history. but, like all technological advances, it requires a framework, and this framework is necessary to accompany innovation by avoiding drift. it is already worth thinking about around three principles. first, the preservation of financial stability in the face of cyberattacks, the news of which need not be reminded, and the lack of information made available to regulators by fintechs about their activities that could limit the prevention of systemic risks. secondly, the protection of consumers exposed to fraudulent sales, as in the case of online transaction fraud, linked to the development of connected platforms, to theft, if not theft of personal data. finally, the incentive to create jobs, because while the fintech ecosystem relies on the growth of young people who recruit, the automation of financial services could also disrupt myriad trades. three suggestions. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, there is no such thing as a happy divorce, but the process can be made less painful if everyone behaves fairly. the government of theresa may understood this: her representative in the council abstained on decisions to apply after 2019. and now, one by one, he is vetoing two decisions which are fundamental for the union, and for the union alone. the revision of the multiannual financial framework is being postponed and, most recently, the british minister opposed the creation of a european operational headquarters. this creation, which has been envisaged for many years, is a first step in the implementation of a defence europe. why would we want to weaken the union when we are leaving it? our common interest is to have a strong europe, a privileged partner of a strong united kingdom in all areas. if this is repeated, the 27 will have to get used to working together, not only on the brexit negotiations, but also on all the issues that will no longer concern the united kingdom. this is not desirable for either party.
madam president, the british people have indeed decided to leave the european union, albeit in a different way, since scotland and northern ireland did not vote in favour, which will certainly complicate the negotiations. we deeply regret that. i would like to remind you of the destructive role that ukip played in this operation and i would like to remind you of our duty to fight all extremists who actually want to destroy this organisation which has been born out of the desire for peace in europe. now the eu and the uk have to settle accounts. neither british nor european citizens should be victims of this brexit. mr president, it is just as important to preserve the european institutions as it is to preserve the rights of citizens, particularly those relating to freedom of movement.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the g7 summit (2017/2574 ((rsp)).
i shall open the debate by starting with the speakers from the groups, but because of the timetable and the delay we have had, i will not accept a blue card in this debate and i ask you to excuse me.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, this upcoming g7 summit is intended to lay the foundations for renewed trust between citizens and governments. i would argue that we also need to build trust between partners, especially when we see that more and more of them are choosing the path of isolation. the difficulties we face are the result of our collective inability to solve the problems. all this is a source of democratic distrust and trust cannot be restored by incantations. it will only come back with concrete results and commitments. the challenges we face have changed in scale, while our modes of governance have remained very limited in terms of territory. first, i expect our leaders to ensure that all parties, including the us, meet their commitments under the paris agreement and adequately fund the fight against climate change. i then expect them to collectively prepare for the risks of the 21st century, whether responding to pandemics or cyberattacks, as news reminds us that cybersecurity is the achilles' heel of the digital transition. i still expect them to take strong and coordinated measures to combat tax fraud and evasion, symbols of this globalisation we spoke of yesterday morning, which are deepening the inequalities that our fellow citizens can no longer tolerate and are fuelling this crisis of confidence. i am finally expecting our leaders to put aside the small accounting measures and finally take the measure of the technological revolution that is overwhelming us, with its benefits and risks. without global thinking, there will be no effective strategy for ai or genetic engineering. together, we must rebuild the foundations of our common home.
the european union has a work programme for this meeting in taormina: defending the interests of the europeans. as such, the commission must defend the general interest of the union. but given what is happening, particularly in washington, it is clear that this mandate requires very strong elements. first of all, in defence of the paris agreement: reducing inequalities, fighting populism, means also fighting climate change and supporting the ecological transition on the basis of what was successfully achieved in the paris agreements. however, there is now a bad wind blowing in washington, which is seeking to challenge these agreements on the grounds that the same would not be required of a partner like china. it is up to the european union to say loud and clear that this agreement is in everyone's interest and that it must be implemented today. another bad wind is blowing in washington, which would like to see banking deregulation organized, even though the great crisis we are experiencing - from which we have not yet fully emerged - was born out of the madness of the american banking sector, and which would like all the safeguards, such as speculation on own account, consumer protection or the impossibility for market operators to act in their own interest before acting in the interest of their client, to be challenged by the new american administration. we also expect the european union to speak out strongly on these issues.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, the publication of the transparency international report has re-ignited the debate on the powers and control of the european central bank. the financial crisis, and subsequently the eurozone crisis, have considerably freed the european central bank from its original sphere of competence, to the point where it can intervene, directly or indirectly, in the economic and social policies of the states, sometimes by practicing odious blackmail and even beginning to implement it: greece is an emblematic case and it is not the only one. with the complicity of the majority of this parliament, it has now acquired quasi-legislative power and control of the entire financial sector thanks to its new supervisory tasks. as for control, it is non-existent. it is not the ridiculous power of the european parliament, or rather of a small number of its members, to ask questions or to have access to certain documents that can replace genuine control. the european central bank's total independence, its statutes enshrined in the treaties and its irrevocable directors, except by the court of justice, effectively exempts it from any responsibility for the sanctioning of such actions. the monster has escaped its creators. like in mary shelley's novel, the only solution is to kill the monster.
mr president, some people have wanted to open a debate here, which we regularly have with the annual report on the central bank or in the hearings with mr draghi. but we must speak the truth, because despite the geographical uncertainties facing the community across the channel and across the atlantic, the monetary policy that is being pursued is the appropriate policy, whatever the economic challenges we are facing. the euro area is therefore showing greater resistance than could have been anticipated. its growth, it was said, is expected to reach 1.7% this year and 1.8% next year. this good sequence is not the result of chance, but owes much - as the commission has stressed several times this week in its economic forecasts - to the support of an exceptional monetary policy. yes, the recovery remains too weak and the divergences within the zone remain too strong. but no, the central bank does not deserve to bear the burden of this responsibility. on the contrary, the financing conditions would never have been so favourable if they had not been pursued courageously, with independence, within the framework of a mandate which it has been able to interpret in the interests of the europeans. on the supervisory side, adjustments may be necessary in the context of the review of the european supervisory authorities. however, they should in no way call into question the single supervisory mechanism, the ssm, the fundamental instrument of the banking union which makes possible the direct supervision of around 130 banking groups, including, as the court has just recalled in the case of the landeskreditbank baden-württemberg, which holds a total of more than eur 21000 billion in assets, and which is undoubtedly a step towards the application of a coherent set of prudential rules in all euro area countries. the need for supervision is all the more critical now that the central bank will have to play a leading role in addressing the systemic issues arising from the uk's withdrawal from the european union, in particular the supervision of uk ccps and the future of the clearing of euro-denominated contracts. beyond the risk of post-brexit regulatory easing, the european central bank will finally have to tackle the thorny issue of non-performing loans, npls. in this respect, the publication last march of its guidelines on the treatment of such bad loans is a step forward which will improve the daily dialogue between banks and their supervisors. however, further action is needed to solve this problem, with priority being given to the establishment of a genuine european framework which would allow dedicated asset management companies to collect these non-productive credits.
the rapporteur. mr president, the french situation requires that we be available for comments, since we are in the process of forming a government with a high european density. i come to the report and i would like to welcome this agreement because it is a very important step between the three institutions and will allow the regulation to be applied in a concrete way at the beginning of 2018. this proposal was eagerly awaited by european citizens, who will now be able to travel with the services they subscribe to in their own country. the regulation will apply to services provided for remuneration; the principle of copyright is therefore sanctified and emphasised by this text, but we are introducing a new freedom which is very important, namely the freedom to move temporarily and to benefit temporarily from the services available in our place of residence, in our country of origin. the definition and means of verification of the member state of residence is a provision which is absolutely essential for the operation of this system. the text is sufficiently clear: service providers will have to verify the country of residence of subscribers and the checks will be carried out in accordance with european union rules, namely that they will not violate the rules on the protection of individual freedoms and data privacy. in this respect too, the text is very balanced. similarly, a system of verification waiver is also provided for in the case of an agreement between service providers and rightholders, provided that all rightholders of the content used by the service provider are effectively included in the agreement and that there is no fraud on the state of residence. in order to prevent abuse, the service provider will be able, if he wishes, to check in a closed list of possibilities, in particular by means of the ip address, whether there is no fraud in this agreement, in order to maintain the balance between the two aspects, copyright on the one hand, and freedom of movement for temporary travel on the other. i know the need for our digital single market to be able to reconcile the exercise of intellectual property rights with the free provision of commercial services. this regulation has thus succeeded in making a bet which many people find difficult for ideological reasons, but which, with a little common sense and the will not to impoverish european creation, can be applied without any difficulty. today i hope that we can all complete this text so that negotiations can begin between the three institutions, which will allow for rapid implementation. in this respect, i thank the commissioner for taking a step towards the various requests we had made in this regard and i hope that we will soon be able to implement this regulation, probably in 2018, as i said.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, portability allows a person subscribed to an online service to continue using it when he is temporarily away in another member state of the union. so the idea itself is interesting. however, there are a number of observations which should be noted with caution. firstly, the proposed text is a regulation and not a directive; it will therefore be particularly binding on the states. secondly, it may eventually call into question the right to geo-blocking which is a component of the sovereignty of states. in addition, it suffers from a serious internal contradiction in that it does not specify the maximum duration of stay in another state giving right to portability. the risk is that portability will become the norm rather than the exception. finally, the text risks encouraging global offers which will jeopardise the territoriality of copyright and reduce the diversity of offers. once again, the union will thus encourage the concentration of supply in favour of multinationals. for all these reasons, i shall vote against this text.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur and all the fictitious rapporteurs for the work they have done. it is a real service to our fellow citizens. next summer may be a little early, but soon, when these citizens go on holiday in the european union, they will be able to continue to enjoy their favourite music, series and films, because that is what it is all about. it is understandable that it is quite natural, when you subscribe to a service, when you buy it, to be able to continue to benefit from it. moreover, this service of portability of audiovisual services throughout europe is part of the continuity of the abolition of roaming charges: once we have established connectivity throughout europe, it makes sense to also allow access to these services throughout the union. i also welcome this text because it reinforces and maintains the need for fair remuneration for the work of actors, authors, directors, the investment of producers and all those who contribute to audiovisual creation and who can, in this way, maintain their ability to make a living from their work and to receive a legitimate remuneration. i therefore find this text very balanced and, i repeat, very beneficial for all european citizens.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, when talking about a cross-border portability regulation, we are talking also about people visiting today the european parliament. when talking about the low portability of digital content, we are talking approximately about 100 million european citizens a year. our people will get access to their legally-bought digital content, but when talking about low portability of digital content, we are talking also about our authors. authors have to be fairly remunerated. we respect the principle of territoriality, but just one and a half years ago there were quite different understandings of what this principle of territoriality really means and what this absolute exclusivity means. for some people it was about absolute exclusivity when they even knew that 68% of those film viewers are using free downloads. according to my understanding, it was very relative understanding about absolute exclusivity. for me, absolute exclusivity means 0% or 100%. i am happy that we were able to find this common language with creators, and i am sure creators also believe – and they are right to believe – that they will be much better remunerated just because of this cross-border portability regulation. i agree with those people who said that we are just in the beginning of the process. we have to create a digital single market in the european union, and i hope our cooperation will be also fruitful when we deal in a detailed manner with abolishing of unjustified geo-blocking in the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would first of all like to thank our colleagues for all their more or less satisfactory assessments. the credit for this goes to all those who have worked on this case and, in the first place, to the european commission. from the outset, the current commission has made a very strong case for the need to create a digital market. this was a good thing, but many of the ideas behind it persisted, both in this house and probably in other european institutions. what i like about this text and the positions you have gradually taken, commissioner, is the idea that a dangerous prejudice needs to be brought to light. yes or no, should the digital market crush those who create the content of this market? in other words, is the great european digital single market directed against creators, who should lay down and abandon any form of right or legal control? commissioner ansip, mr president, you have committed yourself and shown by this text that you have taken the opposite option. no, the digital market is not opposed to territoriality or geo-blocking, contrary to what is said from time to time, including here, nor naturally the fair remuneration of copyright. indeed, this remuneration of copyright is the absolute backbone of one of the european values, not the least. in concrete terms, around €530 billion per year comes from creative activity. if this backbone were to be abandoned, by geoblocking or by removing the territorial dimension, it would mean that we would open our doors wide to the main anglo-saxon and american groups which, in some cases, are already using in their commercial activity content which they have not bought, which is in principle prohibited in any form of trade, and i am glad that your colleague, mrs vestager, is vigilant in order to sanction these facts. on the other hand, these same groups - and i draw your attention to future texts - are, thanks to our weakness, able to pay their taxes where they have tax facilities and not where their consumers are. i would like to see a very demanding debate on the forthcoming texts. there is no shortage of people who say that the whitewashing of the digital single market is a strategy. i believe i can count on your good faith - you have just demonstrated this - but we will naturally be very vigilant in the future because it is one of the very great european values to defend the single market for authors through their territoriality and their fair remuneration. i would like to congratulate myself once again on this text and thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the president and the vice-president of the commission, for the excellent and intelligent cooperation we have had.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, one month after the implementation of the regulation on systematic border checks, we are back in plenary to discuss the difficulties encountered, unsurprisingly: it was foreseeable, but perhaps a little too soon. it was inevitable that these systematic checks would have an impact on traffic, far from making the borders more fluid. we did say that. the first line is airports, where customs staff have not been increased and queues have consequently become longer, causing airlines to react. the same applies to land borders, especially the most exposed ones, with particular difficulties between states, whether or not they are members of the schengen area. it must be said that implementing the new regulation at the time of the easter holidays requires a certain sense of humour, which tourists, especially swiss, german and austrian, have paid for by visiting the adriatic coast, passing through slovenia and croatia. and the same malfunctions must have been found in romania and bulgaria. what are the solutions? to return to targeted controls, in defiance of the stated safety objective itself. under pressure from the council, once again, systems were adopted and put in place hastily without their reliability being tested, even by an impact study. and the same mistakes are being made for the pnr and the sis, to the detriment of the european taxpayer and the credibility of the european union. european citizens and their security have a good back. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". i think there must have been a slight problem of interpretation and you do not know me well, my dear colleague. what i said, i said at the time of the adoption of the text. therefore, i have not changed my mind. i think security is important, but i also see the failures of the systems we implement one after the other. i happen to be all of these devices for the gue/ngl group. we are seeing that the pnr is not in place and that the sis is not working, and that the system will have to be revised again. therefore, i am not contradicting myself. i am always on the same page: i am warning and saying that the systems put in place are not functional and do not meet the security needs of the citizens. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs macovei, you may be surprised, but i agree with you. i said 'on the backs of the european taxpayer' because i am afraid that what is being proposed to us today is to increase funds that already exist and that our governments are not using. we need more transparency about exactly how national governments use domestic security funds. it is not by increasing the envelopes that we are going to solve the problems, quite the contrary.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative package on road transport, which will be announced in two weeks' time, is coming at a crucial moment. this is a sector which is facing three major challenges today. first, road contributes to 20% of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions. it must be reduced, and fast, if we are to meet the commitments made at cop21 to save the planet, the climate and humanity. to this end, the commission must urgently propose, among other things, more ambitious co2 emission standards for all road vehicles. the second challenge is digitisation. it should make it possible to facilitate the work of employees and cross-border mobility, but also to improve controls to ensure compliance with the law. but all this cannot wait until 2034, the date proposed by the commission for completing the equipping of the european fleet with the intelligent tachograph. because the third challenge must be solved before it's too late. the road has become a social jungle because of the cheating organized by transport companies that use and abuse social dumping thanks to the low wages of workers from eastern countries. it is time to affirm the principle of 'equal work, equal pay' and to create a european road agency, a real police force whose mission will be to ensure compliance with european legislation. this unfair competition is wreaking havoc on employment, damaging the working conditions of employees, destroying lives, pitting european employees against each other and fuelling the anger of each other. this is the poison that is killing the european project. the challenge of this mobility package is the survival of the european project. it is the last stop before the triumph of the eurosceptic parties. we have an obligation to deliver, here and now.
mr president, today we are finally looking at the situation of 2 million workers and more than 500 000 road transport companies in europe, which highlights the problems of social dumping and the fight against unfair competition. the liberalization of the internal market in this sector has contributed to the deterioration of working conditions, the massive circumvention of european legislation and the proliferation of abusive practices, such as letterbox companies. we all know that, because of the roaming nature and the fundamentally cross-border nature of the road sector, the solutions can only be european. in this context, the mobility package must be the direct application of the social pillar. it is not possible to improve the living conditions of citizens while making an exception for road transport by increasing the flexibility of rest periods. i do not understand how the president of the commission can show his full support for the principle of equal work, equal pay at the same place of work when at sectoral level it is proposed to exclude more than 2 million people from the directive on posted workers, which is supposed to guarantee the application of this principle. we must be consistent in our words and actions. beyond the road sector, it is important that all members understand that what is at stake is not just that issue, but the survival of europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the european union's primary task is to set up free trade agreements. but in every treaty you propose to us, we find that the economic, social and health rules, particularly those on pigmeat, beef and pdos, are not respected. why would you do that? because south korea refuses to sign the conventions of the international labour organization. even though korea is a vital partner of europe, we european nations are discriminated against in these agreements. they still benefit those who come here to import into europe. why would you do that? simply because korea is doing clever protectionism, which we have never been able to do in europe. finally, commissioner, i will simply say that if your agreements worked as well as they do, europe would not be the region with the lowest growth in the world. unfortunately, in france we have seen an increase of one million unemployed in ten years and i think that these free trade agreements are increasingly weakening our european economies, because we are unable to do as the countries with which we share economic treaties do: we are unable to impose the rules they impose on us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago - and this has been said - norway unilaterally decided to increase its duties on certain european agricultural products such as cheese and lamb and beef, which is contrary to the spirit of our agreement with that country. we in parliament had asked the commission to enter into negotiations with our norwegian partner in order to find a mutually satisfactory solution. it is clear that norway has maintained its customs duties. four years after these measures were introduced, i ask the commission to inform us precisely, for each member state, of their consequences for european farmers. moreover, since the commission has not yet succeeded in getting norway to reverse its decision, it must at least make a firm commitment to protect our producers from this harmful situation and ensure that the losses suffered by our farmers are fully compensated. the dispute must be resolved through dialogue, but agriculture must not, once again, be sacrificed on the altar of european trade policy.
on behalf of the enf group. ladies and gentlemen, we must of course be concerned about the human rights situation and i think we are doing useful work. i still have some questions. the violation of state security and treason are cases we have seen here as well, as well as the use of politics and even the notion of state security, whether in the united states or in france. this notion has been used to destabilize politicians. secondly, we act in the name of our values. but our values are being called into question precisely because, with this double standard, it is very easy to blame others. what are we doing home? then, as if by chance, we're the only ones. china, india and other big countries don't have to intervene in everything. as for zambia, like many african states, it faces insoluble contradictions. it must manage its rural exodus, its modernisation and its democratisation, which is very difficult, especially since it is in a situation of international competition which prevents the establishment of a proper economic fabric and is under the supervision of the imf. zambia is therefore one of those states that is being swung by the markets and under the watch of the west. the best thing we can do for this country is to let the bishops' conference and the african union work together to find solutions and to support these solutions, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
author. mr president, ethiopia is a large country with a rich history and a diverse population. it is a key country in the region, with many friends, including in this chamber. but to respect a friend is to know how to tell him things; today, with the arrest of dr merera gudina, who returned from europe to testify here about the situation of the oromo, we cannot remain silent. this is all the more so when we are told that our vote could damage eu-ethiopia relations, particularly on migration. it's called blackmail. the situation has been deteriorating for several months, especially since the implementation of the state of emergency. we are talking about 26,000 arrests, hundreds of deaths - more than 600, according to an official report - torture in prisons. we cannot remain silent. the ethiopian authorities must be asked to shed light on what they call allegations, to accept an international investigation and to release political prisoners arrested in the name of fighting terrorism, which has a good backing.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in ethiopia is fragile. it is one of the fastest growing economies in africa, but it remains extremely poor. its security situation is deteriorating, particularly as regards relations between the majority ethnic group and other ethnic groups. in this context, it is important to ensure that fundamental rights are effectively guaranteed. we have a duty to be vigilant about human rights, but let us also try to look first at home. africa has its own multilateral institutions. does she need our lessons on opposition rights? african countries have their own path to democracy. let us strengthen the power of the african union, which i hope will be able to face up to this complexity. we are not mandated by the united nations to organize this human rights gendarme.
mr president, the state of emergency cannot in any case mean the imprisonment of political opponents. violence and terror will not solve the problems. whatever the strategic situation of the states, the european union cannot tolerate the flouting of democratic systems. when dr merera gudina came here to testify before this parliament about the situation in his country, he was only doing his duty and cannot be condemned for it, quite the contrary. in the european parliament, we must constantly remind ourselves that a democratic country must be characterised by respect for democratically established law, including the right to express opposition, and by the existence of an independent judiciary. everywhere, especially with partner states, we must demand that democracy and freedom of expression are guaranteed, as are all human rights.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i remember a meeting on sudan where there was the special adviser to our president, the ambassador and the church in need. we were against the partition of sudan because we imagined the consequences of that partition. the international community, namely the west, supported this partition for energy and economic reasons. since then, inter-ethnic oppositions have taken hold with the benevolent support of regional powers, such as uganda, and western countries, which have already sponsored secession, such as the united states, provoking civil war. sudan is a case study of what the west is doing to africa. in fact, this is what we are seeing in the democratic republic of congo as well. we have played on ethnic partitions to get territorial partitions and serve our interests behind it all. the only way forward is to let african communities redesign their way of organising themselves into viable and sovereign states.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues who are here. i am here because i am from strasbourg and i want to support the holding of the session in strasbourg and the work on thursday afternoons. the session could even be extended until friday, making strasbourg the sole seat of parliamentary work. the question put by the slovak and hungarian governments on the complaint of consumers in those countries is legitimate, but it seems to me to be wrongly put. the tests carried out by these governments show no breaches of the health protection and information of consumers as provided for by european legislation. so we are not dealing with fraud or even outright deception. this is the use of a brand's prestige and quality standards, recognised over the years in western europe, to sell a product of lower quality, to match the price to local living standards and to preserve the margins of the parent company. beyond this marketing lie, we need to think more deeply about the food question. multinationals are not ideological, they adapt their production conditions in a pragmatic way to the local economy and market. the commission is pursuing a globalist logic of standardization, sanitization and standardization which substitutes brands for the soil, weakens our food and gradually causes our countries to lose their culinary identity. this policy obviously benefits the large multinational agro-food companies. the only long-term solution to this problem is to relocate production closer to consumers, to give our citizens back the tastes and flavours of their own territory and to leave the states the right to be more rigorous on quality standards, on designations of origin and on the protection of their culinary identity. we must break free trade, which is accelerating the race to junk food by opening our markets to tastelessly picked fruit and vegetables, transported thousands of miles in refrigerated containers. the monopoly of central purchasing bodies and of general invitations to tender must also be abolished. we are facing this situation. i myself have introduced large-scale distribution and i am unhappy with the policy that is being pursued, which ultimately leads to standardisation and uniformity and which bypasses local production in tendering procedures because it is not competitive. our peoples have the right to food sovereignty and to respect for their culinary identity, which are much more important issues than the brand quarrel.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the share of road transport continues to increase, but so do the nuisances: pollution, climate change, road safety, social dumping. we must provide concrete responses to these scourges. firstly, we must stop degrading the working conditions and safety of employees by means of a liberalization that does not say its name. we see the consequences of the downward pressure on costs: disregarded driving times, rest periods in inappropriate places, transport companies that wear and abuse social dumping thanks to the low wages of workers from eastern countries. there are even cases of human trafficking here in belgium, with the jost case. it is urgent that this situation be brought to an end. it is urgent that action be taken. at the commission, it is all very well to put a social pillar on paper, but what we want is a social pillar in reality. we must put an end to the fierce and unfair competition between companies and, you are right, madam commissioner, let us put an end to the 'mailbox' companies. let us affirm the principle of equal work, equal pay. let's go further, let's be ambitious. let us create a european road agency to ensure that european legislation is respected. road transport contributes 20% of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. you are going in the right direction with the eurovignette proposal by basing the charges on distance and no longer on time. i commend you on that. but go ahead, don't be afraid, be ambitious! you're going to win! it should not be voluntary, it should be mandatory, because we do not play with the future of our children. we're not playing with the planet, or the health of the citizens. finally, digitalisation really needs to improve enforcement, but it cannot wait until 2034. it's imperative that the tachographs be on the table by tomorrow. the package is about the survival of the european project. we have an obligation to deliver here and now.
madam president, mr vice-president, madam commissioner, yes, some of the proposals are in the right direction, in particular to guarantee the return of drivers to their homes, to combat letterbox companies or to maintain the rules on secondment for cabotage operations. but others send a negative and contradictory message to your stated commitment to combat the continuing deterioration of working conditions in this sector. to exclude the international transport of the directive on posted workers, which guarantees precisely the fundamental principle of equal work, equal pay in the same place, is to play the game of unhealthy competition and social dumping, which today crystallize the rejection of the european project. more flexibility in rest and driving times and in-cabin rest also undermines workers' social rights. finally, you have chosen - and i regret it - to go against the position of this parliament, which on 18 may adopted a resolution calling for the rejection of any form of liberalization of cabotage, including the abolition of the limit on the number of cabotage operations. as i have said on several occasions, beyond the sectoral issue, it is our capacity to implement social europe that is at stake in this text.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, after tunisia, today we have ukraine. europe continues to play the good samaritan and to grant commercial preferences as if they were awarding points at school. this reduction in customs duties on agri-food products is conditional on ukraine's respect for human rights, its fight against corruption and other key principles. the level of corruption in ukraine has reached new heights. in reality, ukraine is a threat to europe. and who will pay the price for these ideological, false and unjust decisions? i think the farmers will be the turkeys of the stuffing and the growers will once again be mistaken for apples. as for the european parliament, which allowed tunisia to export its olive oil to the european union without customs duties, an impact study was due to be published in the year. a year later, there's no record of that study. perhaps the impact on italian and french producers is too disastrous to be admitted... i shall see you next year to make the same observation with regard to ukrainian cereals.
mr president, commissioner, do not go too fast. a judgment of the european court of justice on 16 may has already given you a very serious warning that the european union does not have exclusive competence in trade matters. we must learn to share, and the union has a shared role here with the states. on a matter as serious as ukraine, i would like to say one thing to you, madam president: it is france that is speaking to you, rural france, the france of farmers. we had a very difficult year in france in 2016, where most farms lost more than 30% of their turnover. the year 2017 will be just as difficult, commissioner, because climate problems persist and prices continue to fall. but while french and european farmers suffer, you make your treaties, you continue your free trade agreements. after canada, meat and cereals, after mexico, mercosur, you have also started a dialogue with australia. today, ukraine is a real competitor to european agriculture. it is very bad news that this treaty is coming at a time when european agriculture is in crisis and when we should, on the contrary, help our own farmers before helping others.
in writing. this text concerns a set of trade concessions for ukraine in the framework of the 'deep free trade area' which has been provisionally applied since 1 may 2016 as a result of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine. the report highlights the asymmetrical nature of the concessions made by the european union, which is reducing customs duties more rapidly than ukraine. the commission has also examined the impact of the measures on the union industry, in particular the impact of the measures on the union industry's sales and market share. these concessions consist of tariff-free quotas for certain agricultural products: wheat, barley, oats, natural honey, processed tomatoes, grape juice and maize. some industrial products are also partially exempted. these concessions threaten the economic equilibrium of certain sectors. in the case of maize in particular, this additional quota of 650 000 tonnes per year could cause prices to fall, since the european union is already in deficit with ukraine on its maize imports. it should be noted that the eu-ukraine association agreement is a symbol of a denial of democracy. the agreement was rejected by the dutch people in a referendum in april 2016, but was nevertheless adopted by the lower house of the dutch parliament on 30 may.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the staff and the director of the agency for their work and research, which undoubtedly feeds our parliamentary work, and for the expertise they have developed. i would like to stress, as my colleagues have done, the importance of their role in promoting fundamental rights and freedoms throughout the european union. two points quickly. firstly, on the agency's multiannual framework, as has been emphasised by my colleagues and as has been mentioned by the commissioner, i also deeply regret the absence of the two themes of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the agency's multiannual framework, whereas these themes are clearly relevant to fundamental rights and there is clearly, even today, much to be done in terms of respect for rights in this area. i regret this all the more as the programme demonstrates the agency's ability to adapt, in general, to the new realities of our european society. and our agreement today, madam commissioner, mr council representative, is essentially conditional on one thing: that the regulation establishing the agency be amended quickly so that it finally has competence in all areas relating to fundamental rights, that is to say, police and judicial cooperation. finally, secondly, our union is based on values. the latter are the subject of systemic threats to the rule of law and i would like to see the agency granted greater independence, and given a power of self-help and investigation, to be truly not only independent but also impartial and strong, and thus to live up to our european ambitions and values.
madam president, respect for human rights is essential. france knows this, since it proclaimed them as early as 1789, but was it necessary to create a specific agency to advise states on human rights? i don't think he is. the eu fundamental rights agency is a bureaucratic monster that costs us €22 million a year for almost zero results. instead of questioning itself, it has tried to take over two new areas: police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. fortunately, the council opposed this. the worst thing is that the agency has developed a communitarian conception of human rights which is at odds with the french republican conception. in its 2017 report, the agency acknowledges this in paragraph 2.4, recommending that states promote inclusion, including by organising the expression of religious communitarianism in public spaces. this is contrary to the french tradition of assimilation and that is why i am firmly opposed to this agency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe of nations and freedoms group welcomes the positive, but still too timid, approach of our colleague mr bütikofer on the question of controlling foreign investment in the digital field. we must assert our right to digital sovereignty and protect the key european companies in the value chain of this strategic industry. brussels had to wait for germany to be hit with the purchase of the kuka robot flagship to wake up. so let us take the plunge and protect ourselves against the appetites of the competing american and asian powers who have profited for so many years from the blindness of brussels' free trade. but habits are hard to break. the report by mr boni, on the other hand, fully supports ppp 5g. however, in the private part of this partnership, there are companies that have nothing european about them. that is why we will refuse to publish this text because we believe it is important today to protect ourselves against foreign competition.
mr president, the fight against illegal immigration is urgent. the schengen system, unfortunately, promotes this by replacing controls at national borders with controls at the union's external borders, which are known to be particularly porous. if we cannot abolish schengen for the time being, we must at least try to reduce its harmfulness. this is what the present proposal does: it has the merit of replacing the old model visa, which was easily falsifiable, with a new one which will be more secure. i shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal. i regret, however, that a model visa which encouraged fraud was maintained for 22 years. many foreigners took advantage of this to enter the union illegally. you are moving now - better late than never - but i am convinced that you would not have changed anything if the national front and its allies had not entered the european parliament in force three years ago.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for its work on this important security measure. over the past few years, an increasing number of forgeries of visa stickers has been registered in several member states. the sticker currently in use is – and the specialist has confirmed this – no longer secure. since forged stickers are in circulation, there is urgent need for action to produce new, unforgeable visa stickers. according to our estimates, the cost of introducing the new visa sticker will not be higher than that of the old ones. this agreement is an important step in the fight against document fraud in europe. once the measure is adopted, the commission will closely follow up on its implementation by all the schengen countries and those who express an interest in participating.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission thanks the parliament and the rapporteur for her report on the protection of vulnerable adults. within the european judicial area we must ensure the legal safety of all the citizens, including those who suffer from a disability or an unspecified deficiency due to disease or to age. the commission has in the past clearly expressed the view that member states should ratify the hague convention on the international protection of adults, which came into force on 1 january 2009. recently, we have repeatedly consulted member states on their experience with the application of this convention or, for those who did not accede to it, on the reasons preventing them from doing so. these consultations showed that a very small number of cases have been registered by the centre authorities appointed under the convention. it seems that this limited number of cases identified measured against the costs that the operation of the convention may entail explains to a large extent what is preventing most member states from ratifying it. however, our last consultation showed that a number of member states are reflecting on the possibility of acceding to the convention and several ratifications could still take place this year. in the light of this, we will examine whether an additional proposal in this area would bring added value, and in particular whether a european instrument on cooperation could be useful to facilitate concrete implementation of the convention and improve the international cooperation in the field. in your 2008 resolution you asked the commission to present a proposal ‘as soon as sufficient experience on the operation of the convention has been acquired’. this is not yet the case. i would like also to point out that there is no clause in the convention allowing eu ratification. the commission has granted financial support in the framework of the civil justice programme to initiatives aiming at improving the knowledge of vulnerable persons’ rights, for instance through the notaries of europe's portal. the commission is ready to co-finance other appropriate actions if relevant projects are proposed by interested member states and stakeholders under the current financial framework. moreover, as a flanking measure to help both the member states which are already contracting parties to the convention and those which are still considering it, the commission has translated into all eu languages the explanatory report to the 2000 hague convention on the international protection of adults. preparations are also ongoing for a joint international conference with the hague conference in order to further promote the ratification of the convention and disseminate best practices. the conference should take place in january 2018 and i hope that it will show the benefits that a coherent legal framework has to offer in this field. i am looking forward to the participation of the rapporteur and other interested members of this parliament in this event. in my opinion, vulnerable adults should also be able to benefit from the currently ongoing digital progress: they should not be left behind by the younger and more dynamic members of the society. this concerns not only those incapable of being masters of their affairs, but also those left aside by the digital revolution, those vulnerable in the face of technological changes. these changes are rapid and can have a lot of benefits for everybody. i am glad that the parliament is concerned about the fate of all citizens.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased to present to you today my own-initiative report on the protection of vulnerable adults. in accordance with rule 46 of parliament's rules of procedure, it contains recommendations to the commission. this is a subject which has been of particular interest to me, as it deals with the problems and difficulties that european citizens may encounter or are encountering in the implementation of their rights. we must bear in mind that vulnerability may affect all of us, directly or indirectly, at some point. vulnerability can be physical or psychological. it may be the result of a life accident or be due to degenerative diseases related to old age. i strongly believe that, given the current difficulties facing the european union and its institutions, it is essential that the union should get closer to its citizens and deal with issues that directly concern them. protecting the most deprived among us seems to me a vital mission. in the committee on legal affairs, we agreed to define vulnerable adults as natural persons who have reached the age of 18 and are temporarily or permanently unable to manage their own person and/or property. this definition is the same as that of the hague convention of 13 january 2000. each eu member state has its own legal framework with different standards for the protection of vulnerable adults. however, the free movement of persons entails the creation of crossborder legal links, such as having a place of residence or assets abroad, working abroad, marrying a foreigner or marrying abroad, starting a family or divorcing in a member state other than the one of which one is a national, or simply retiring in another member state. the assets of vulnerable persons may be distributed across several member states, without there being a uniform legal framework within the union to protect their rights. the disparity of national laws too often delays decision-making concerning the privacy and personal life or health of vulnerable adults. this in fact creates obstacles to their freedom of movement and makes it impossible to protect their persons and property. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the disabled are respected. the aim is not to harmonise existing protection measures in each member state, the establishment of which is a matter for the member states alone, but to put in place a set of legal rules to facilitate the information, recognition and enforcement of decisions concerning vulnerable adults in cross-border situations and to strengthen cooperation between member states in this field. the main objectives of this proposal for a recommendation are to promote the recognition of protection measures taken by the authorities of one member state in the other member states without the need to have recourse to an exequatur judgment. these are procedures that are time-consuming, costly and random; implement national files or registers listing administrative and judicial decisions on protection measures and, where they exist, ineligibility orders; to set up single union forms to promote information on administrative and judicial decisions concerning vulnerable adults; ensure that the sharing of information on the protection status of vulnerable adults between member states is carried out in compliance with the principle of confidentiality and the rules on the protection of personal data. in conclusion, i would remind you that at present, in international law, the legal instrument of reference for intra- and extra-community crossborder disputes concerning vulnerable adults is the hague convention of 13 january 2000. it entered into force on 1 january 2009. to date, some 15 states have signed it and only seven have ratified it in 8 years, namely germany, austria, estonia, the united kingdom, but only for scotland, finland, the czech republic and france. this is clearly insufficient to ensure its implementation. we hope that the commission will follow our recommendations. this would greatly facilitate the lives of vulnerable adults affected by cross-border situations. this would make life easier for those around them and for the professionals who are involved in these situations. thank you for them.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the european population is ageing and vulnerable adults are therefore increasing in number. it is therefore a legitimate concern. the bergeron report is unfortunately not up to the task. the european parliament should have identified the legal solutions already implemented by some member states of the union and merely recommended that other states follow suit. this would have been a tribute to france, which has just ten years ago put in place an effective system of future protection mandates. the bergeron report was sacrificed to the federalist cult of uniformity. instead of respecting the freedom of each state, it deplores the fact that there are differences between national laws, without wanting to understand that this legal diversity is a cultural richness. the commission is proposing to draw up a regulation which will impose a standardised form of penalty, similar to the european form of the sickness and invalidity mandate which it is calling for. in the name of the principle of subsidiarity and, more profoundly, out of respect for national sovereignty, i shall therefore oppose this report.
member of the commission. – mr president, i can repeat what i said at the beginning, namely that the commission is fully committed to the international protection of adults and will keep parliament informed on any developments in the field. there were many questions regarding the ratification of the hague convention, so let me just briefly inform you about where we are on this. we have been consulting with the member states on a continuous basis, but we did a screening at the end of 2016 and the findings were that nine member states have ratified and acceded to the convention; seven have signed; portugal, latvia and ireland are about to ratify the convention before the end of 2017; slovakia is about to start preparation for the international procedure for signature and ratification; and belgium has recently signed the convention and will soon begin the ratification process. in italy the bill prepared by the government for the ratification of the convention is now under examination by the relevant committee in the parliament and the same situation applies in greece. in sweden the report of the inquiry appointed by the government to consider the ratification is under way. several member states are still studying the convention and completing their internal reforms of the legislation concerning vulnerable adults before considering ratification of the convention. let me name them: romania, the united kingdom (for england and wales), poland, luxembourg, bulgaria, cyprus, hungary, malta and denmark. we have received only a few negative replies. croatia and the netherlands have explicitly stated that they do not intend to ratify the convention because, as i have already mentioned, of the budgetary costs which it may entail, and spain has said that, from a legal point of view, accession is not deemed necessary because spain has legally solved the international protection of adults in a balanced manner. so far slovakia has not studied in detail whether to join the convention. i felt i should inform you about this state of affairs in the member states because i think it is very relevant to the discussion. as for the role of the commission, i can solemnly declare that this is a continuing political priority, which is not only expressed in the continuing funding of the projects, but also through mainstreaming, which i will do whatever the commission proposes regarding new legislative proposals and other activities. this is not only in the area of justice and fundamental rights, but i also intensively try to mainstream the interests of vulnerable adults in the area of transport, consumer protection policy, the energy package, the digital single market strategy and, last but not least, the relatively fresh work—life balance package, where we want to enable families to better combine their duties at home, including caring for disabled, handicapped or elderly members of their families, with their work. i am very much in favour of better social services in europe and i do not intend that care for vulnerable adults should be institutionalised or dehumanised. these are my political priorities and i would like to thank parliament for your continued support.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i thank my colleagues who have understood the purpose of this own-initiative report, which is indeed to protect the weakest among us and to enable them to exercise their rights on an equal footing with all european citizens. this feeling of protecting the other can have a philosophical or religious origin, and in my opinion it is more important than the notion of national sovereignty. that is why, mr lebreton, i believe that national sovereignty must be eclipsed by the vulnerability of our neighbours. the hague convention text - which is very good and very balanced, i have always said - is seventeen years old, mrs jourová. for 17 years now, vulnerable people who have a residence abroad - which i have dealt with as a commissioner - have had to wait four years, or even five, if they become heirs, to be able to inherit. sometimes they died before they could inherit. they cannot divorce, they cannot be institutionalized, they cannot be treated because medical interventions require the consent of a guardian, and if their protection measure is french and they reside in spain, they are obliged to take up a protection measure in spain again. i think that those who oppose this report have not understood its purpose. the report is not intended to amend national legislation but to make life easier for the weakest. these are purely administrative measures to recognise the status of a vulnerable person.
the agenda calls for votes. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
mr gericke, this is not a point of order. we appreciate your respect for the parents and, by the way, we may not be parents either.
this closes the voting period.
mr. bütikofer, i'm not authorized to punish mr. hannan. however, if you do make a written remark, we will of course take it into account and consider it.
madam president, we'd better sweep our front door. europe, particularly through this agency, is trying to protect the rights of migrants, to blame what i believe we should now call the indigenous population, and even to reject any legitimate difference on nationality, whereas it is quite legitimate that, for example, the french should have priority in their country as foreigners do in theirs. this europe is incapable of protecting fundamental rights. we were not able to protect the two most emblematic political refugees who had exposed us espionage to us, mr julian assange and mr edward snowden. mr edward snowden, to the shame of the european union and all its member countries, finally found refuge only in moscow. mr. julian assange has had to live in literally prison conditions in a south american embassy because he was being prosecuted under a particularly grotesque accusation from swedish women complainants. i think this is a disrespect to the agency and our discourse on human rights.
madam president, this procedural device allows me to double my speaking time. i would therefore go on to say, as mrs tomašić has very well suggested, that the real victims of this kind of policy are the original occupiers. i am personally, perhaps unfortunately, a european. i'm a family man, so i'm straight. i'm more of a french patriot. i can see that i am the object of this whole barrage of people who are constantly trying to make me feel guilty, to impose an unwanted foreign presence on me, who want to demonize any legitimate attempt at national reaction. that is why i consider that all these operations and this discourse are a real attempt to decerebrate, to make people feel guilty, a psychological weapon in the hands of globalism and against the european peoples.
madam president, i voted against this report. for a long time, development policy has been about taking money from the poor in rich countries and giving it to the rich in poor countries. the current report does indeed have some positive aspects, but it fails in two respects. the first is that the only original idea it contains is above all not to link the granting of development to the control required of the countries receiving their migration flows. i think it's a mistake. we could well ask these countries to cooperate, since the very purpose of development aid is to try to prevent their nationals from being tempted to flee the misery they face in their home countries. the second aspect that is overlooked is that there will be no development without protectionism. it is protectionism that allows economies to take off, that allows the protection of subsistence agriculture and that also allows the transition from the artisanal to the industrial stage. the history of all developed countries, including china and japan, which have consistently achieved the abolition of unequal treaties, demonstrates this.
madam president, we have just adopted a resolution which rightly denounces anti-semitism throughout the world. the difficulty is that in this resolution, for the first time, a possible link can be made between anti-semitism and criticism of the colonial policies implemented by the israeli government. there is a real danger here because, quite simply, criticism of colonial policies and occupation has nothing to do with anti-semitism. this is a matter of human dignity, of the palestinian people who are deprived of their rights, of their land and of their basic rights to water and education. to link criticism of the israeli government's colonial and military practices to the suffering of anti-semitism is to insult all those who are trying to defend a peaceful and dignified solution in the middle east so that the state of palestine can live in peace alongside a pacified state of israel.
i apologize, but unless i'm mistaken, i was also on that report. can the session department check?
sorry, sir, no, you were not registered. we don't have your name, so we'll move on to the explanation of vote on the following. i'm sorry about that, sir.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.50 p.m.)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the reality of water problems is challenging our development model today. worse, some of our environmental commitments to biofuels will increase restrictions on access to water and lead us to a difficult trade-off between food and energy self-sufficiency. to be clear, europe is not immune to water scarcity. the southern shores of the mediterranean are caught between population explosion, rapid urbanization and global warming. almost three quarters of the population of the arab-muslim world, especially the mediterranean, live on less than 1 000 m3 of water a year, the threshold for water scarcity. it is therefore clear that food self-sufficiency is threatened, since agriculture absorbs between 60 and 80% of water resources. for europe, this situation is a harbinger of unprecedented waves of migration. at a time when some countries are investing heavily in future technologies for water management, europe cannot afford to lag behind global innovation. within the limits of our financial capacity, projects supported by prima must focus on technical solutions that meet the challenge of a sustainable and sufficient water supply. i will therefore support the european union's participation in prima, relying on rigorous monitoring of the projects funded.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the last summit in valletta reinforces our concerns, as four of the five scenarios presented are predicting deep cuts for the period after 2020. in addition to this budgetary concern, there is concern about what we are hearing from member states such as germany, for example, which is simply the possibility of the categories of regions being called into question, which is very serious. the reality is that regional policy has come under attack and is now destined to be distorted. it is already distorted by the surveillance and punishment measures of macroeconomic conditionality; the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle that is not found in the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we do not want that, and neither do the less developed regions. what we want is a great regional policy rooted in solidarity, effective and true to its vocation as set out in the treaties. more than ever, the european union needs a strong policy of solidarity. that is the meaning of the westphal report and that is what we must work together to achieve.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank my colleague mr affronte. the mediterranean is a sea enclosed by densely populated shores, which is subject to all the human pressures. its biodiversity is threatened, in particular by land and marine pollution which endangers the food chain and thus the fishery resource. as far as overfishing is concerned, there are of course third countries, but there is also the union. from this point of view, i believe it is time to introduce quotas for all species which scientific advice considers to be endangered. today, only bluefin tuna and swordfish benefit from quotas. there is a contradiction between the core of the 2013 common fisheries policy, which focuses on maximum sustainable yield, and the fact that no conclusions are drawn from it for the placing of species under quotas in the mediterranean. we should stress that the disappearance of fish stocks is putting the mediterranean fisheries sector at risk from a socioeconomic point of view and, as the resolution states, the preservation of fishermen's jobs must also be taken into account, whereas, i would remind you, convention 188 on fishermen has not yet been transposed by the member states. beyond declarations of intent, we must find a constant balance between the socioeconomic and environmental aspects, without opposing them, as the rapporteur has done, and i thank him for that.
in writing. the old age pension has become the main source of income for 25% of eu citizens. this number will double by 2060 as a result of the ageing population. this is therefore a key issue, particularly in the fight against poverty and social exclusion among our elderly. while the organisation of pension systems is the exclusive competence of the member states, the eu has a supporting competence (article 153 tfeu). unfortunately, we see a gap between men and women: in the eu, in 2012, the gap was 38% for those over 65. the causes are the high rate of low paid women, working hours and part-time work, often related to motherhood. we must continue to fight against this discrimination and guarantee equal pay for equal work and equal seniority. the introduction of the pension points credit is a possible approach. on the other hand, we oppose the minimum public pension (which is limited to the european minimum wage) and the increase in the minimum number of years of contribution. finally, we are against the individualisation of pension rights which undermines the unity of the family home.
mr president, on 5 june egypt and several arab countries accused qatar of supporting terrorism. in the days that followed, several african states, including senegal, severed diplomatic relations with qatar. the charges against qatar are very serious. they come from too many countries to be taken lightly. the european union is shining through its silence. it was germany that intervened on his behalf, as it has too often done, to explain that we must, i quote: 'end terrorism, as part of the anti-jihadist coalition of which qatar is a member'. we need to stop talking like that. it is not enough to observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims of the london bombing, as we did today in strasbourg. it is also important to make qatar aware of its responsibilities. qatar has been mocking us for too long. he even went so far as to ask this parliament to waive the immunity of a member of the european parliament whose only crime was to have criticised him. it's time to act.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, behind energy efficiency i fear that once again we are giving brussels and the european commission new powers. it is clear that there is a need for harmonisation of labelling and a european databank for citizens. i've been a staunch supporter of energy efficiency since 1980, when i was the head of, among other things, energy efficiency here. but with this proposal for a regulation, everything is being done to strip the states of their prerogatives by moving from the directive to the regulation, by giving a blank check to the commission and giving it very wide areas to adopt delegated acts, in particular to set the thresholds for energy performance categories. this logic of irresponsibility and bureaucratization of our states with national plans to be adopted and mandatory reports is not good for europe. we should be more pragmatic, more decentralised and more subsidiary in our approach, rather than deciding everything from brussels. finally, the project is wrong in its approach, not taking into account the valley. the consumer must also be informed of the energy performance of the process and the place of manufacture and transport. it is the ecological and even social impact that should be the subject of information to the consumer. producing locally also means limiting imports. this is also energy efficiency. otherwise we risk doing what we have been doing for decades with our environmental regulations: exporting our pollution and giving ourselves a good conscience in europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dario tamburrano, for his excellent work. what we shall be voting on tomorrow and after the trilogue is, roughly speaking, the position of the committee on industry, research and energy. i thank the rapporteur because a few months ago, before renewing the purchase of a washing machine, for example, many people were lost in the labels, without really understanding or knowing the difference in terms of energy consumption. the system had become unreadable, even counterproductive. it was necessary to simplify it. this directive therefore puts the consumer in his place. there is also good news: the label 2.0. it will enable the consumer to compare and make informed choices. this makes each consumer a tester. this database will therefore limit fraud. the socialists and democrats would have liked to go further and impose, for example, sanctions, investigations and refunds in cases of misrepresentation of labels. let's just be optimistic, it will come eventually.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, the announced withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement makes action more justified than ever in the international organisations of which the united states is still a member. it should be noted that the vast majority of european states are also parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, or to the international civil aviation organisation (icao) for the air sector, or to the international maritime organisation (imo) for the maritime sector. so it is not the european union's signing, ratifying and implementing the paris agreement that will bring the us back into the heart of pragmatic, effective and global climate action. finally, the european union is not at all contradictory in wanting to reduce emissions on the one hand, while defending free trade models that only exacerbate these emissions on the other. in the field of the environment, the short circuits, the relocation of businesses and economic patriotism that we have been advocating for years are not the problem but the solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have a great responsibility to define the european union's climate policy for the next thirty years. the climate emergency requires and calls us to take action in line with the expectations and awareness of our citizens, to face the challenge of our century: the future of our planet. the text under discussion today aims to translate into european law the climate commitments made by the union and the member states under the paris agreement. it is therefore a matter of moving from talk to action. with donald trump's decision to leave the paris agreement, it is more crucial than ever that the european union sticks to its commitments to combat global warming. the report, which raises the ambition of the european commission's proposal by including long-term objectives by 2050, limiting certain flexibilities and strengthening the control of efforts and the revision clause to revise upwards the binding targets, will send this strong political signal for the european union to take the lead in implementing the paris agreement. i therefore call on members to vote in favour of the report as a whole, as adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. we cannot celebrate the ratification of the paris agreement in plenary and then, once the texts are on the table, try to downplay the level of ambition of the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr commissioner, is europe sick of its currency? we're at his bedside today. the euro - you said it - was a great success. the euro has certainly protected us, but today our monetary area is torn by too many macroeconomic differences, and these differences are deepening inequalities and fuelling euroscepticism. the euro is therefore at a crossroads. i congratulate the commission because its proposals are ambitious and provide a useful basis for reflection on how to strengthen economic and monetary union. the euro is no longer a taboo: everything must be on the table. the keys to our success are three in number: trust, responsibility and solidarity. trust, first of all, is a prerequisite; yet that trust has been undermined by too many failed promises. many countries are on the road to reform, and i hope france will be too, but everyone's efforts are essential to rebuild trust and thus complete the banking union, including a european deposit guarantee - you mentioned it - which is still sorely lacking. the corollary of this trust is responsibility. responsible public financial management, in accordance with the rules of, for example, a convergence code, would pave the way for the creation of a common budgetary capacity and a strengthening of euro area governance. solidarity: if we want to share the same currency, we must put in place mechanisms of solidarity. it is not, of course, a question of creating a transfer union, but of being able to join hands in the event of a hard blow. i would therefore call for the creation of a european monetary fund. however, i believe we cannot wait until 2025 to implement these reforms, we must start now. the political stars are aligned, it's now or never.
madam president, mr vice-president, mr commissioner, i thank you for this diagnosis. this is a useful line of thought for defending the common good of the euro. for political and economic reasons, we must preserve it. you will shed light on its weaknesses: this is useful to highlight the need to complete economic and monetary union, as has already been done in the report by the four presidents, in the report by the five presidents and in many resolutions of this parliament, the last of which on a budget for the euro area. this analysis can be completed, since it is also necessary to point out the design flaws of the economic and monetary union in its current state and in its evolution, which lead to the existence of rules that are too complex, too opaque, sometimes totally inadequate and which induce a bias contrary to the investment necessary for the functioning of the euro area itself. in the diagnosis, it may seem to us that a sense of urgency is relatively lacking, because we are in a moment when the strategic interest of the euro area needs to be reaffirmed, including in the context of brexit. i would like to dwell more on the solutions you propose, many of which are in line with what we support and what we are campaigning for, starting, as commissioner moscovici has indicated, with an arrangement that allows for a more democratic functioning of the euro area itself. among the four guiding principles you propose, i suggest that you add that of contributing to sustainable development and the implementation of the objectives of the paris conference. i know we shouldn't be overloading the boat, but still, we can't split our resources. you propose macroeconomic stabilisation mechanisms, which we welcome, and this is an indispensable path. we also propose moving towards a convergence code which avoids an overly punitive logic and favours an incentive system through a euro area budget of its own, of which the european stability mechanism should be the embryo.
madam president, commissioner, eighteen years after the euro was introduced, the optimum currency area you promised us is not working. many countries, including france, are victims of this fixed exchange rate system, which causes a euro-divergence, with economic growth rates, unemployment rates, interest rates, sovereign debts and external debts posing a serious problem. this situation forces the states to pursue recessive policies of internal devaluation, aptly called structural reforms, aimed at restoring their economic competitiveness. in the wake of mr sarkozy and mr hollande, president macron will continue and increase this purge which, as we have seen in spain and greece, hits hard at the most vulnerable. but that's not enough for you. to solve the structural defects of this currency, you propose in this report on economic and monetary union to strip the nations of their last economic and budgetary powers by transferring them to berlin via its brussels branch. so, after having removed our national borders with schengen, our currency with the euro, our banks with the banking union, you are now attacking our public finances. mr macron, we will fight you politically to solve the problems of the euro area in the framework of intergovernmental cooperation and consultation.
madam president, commissioner, as you said, the euro is a symbol of the european union. we have just celebrated the 30th anniversary of erasmus, another symbol of this, and i am convinced that the euro has helped to make our students convinced europeans. we cannot, however, look at this single currency with happiness. we must instead make a critical analysis to strengthen this currency, which has become, in some ways, the dna of the european union. hence the commission's necessary work on economic and monetary union with the idea of creating a strong and democratic euro area. a euro area budget would be the engine of new economic development based on future investments, in particular those linked to the ecological transition, and thus allowing the creation of jobs so much needed by europe's youth. this area should, of course, be a space of solidarity to reduce social and fiscal inequalities.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the oral question to the commission on glyphosate and the authorisation procedures by angelique delahaye, miriam dalli, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, kateřina konečná, bart staes, piernicola pedicini and jean-françois jalkh, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000046/2017 - b8-0316/2017) (2017/2695rsp))
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you said, commissioner, we must take decisions on the basis of sound scientific analysis and not on the basis of positions. the subject is technical, but it has become, as you said, political. we must protect the health of our citizens in general, but particularly that of the users. we have a system in place for the authorization of substances, and although some people may not like it, just because the results are not to our liking, we do not have to attack it or go around the corner to change it, when we feel like it. on the other hand, we must have confidence in our system to assure citizens that the decisions that are being taken are in their best interests. today's debate is obviously welcome, since the doubts have been building up for a year, as you have pointed out, commissioner, and these doubts remain for various reasons: firstly, the different approaches of our agencies, some based on risk, others based on danger, all of which create confusion, which is unfortunately being carefully nurtured. i have confidence in our system, commissioner, and then, as you have pointed out, parliament took a consensual position on this in a resolution last year. but given the mistrust of our fellow europeans and given that there is and is a doubt, we must clarify things. i would therefore like you to go a little further in the answers you have begun to give us on the clarifications given and the measures taken by the commission and the measures it is taking to make its decisions more transparent, in order to restore the confidence lost by some. you've been called in by investigators. i would like to know how the commission has taken this request into account. and do you know what the european food safety authority (efsa) and the european chemicals agency (echa) have done, or have done with this information? you pointed out the fact that many agencies around the world, highlight the fact that this substance does not present - there is no cancer risk with this substance. unfortunately, we need to go further and i hope that we have, for the professionals, economically viable and environmentally viable alternatives. i would also like you to go further on this point, on the measurement and financing of research.
i am aware of the work you do in the commission and i would like to thank you publicly for it. that said, it is true that on the question of glyphosate, the position taken by the commission on the renewal of its use for ten years does not seem to be appropriate for the situation at the moment, as it is true - you have mentioned it in your remarks - that we are at the heart of a strong controversy, even though many studies - you have also said it - show that glyphosate is not potentially carcinogenic. others, however, claim otherwise. it is true that at this time when we have to make a choice, you as the commission, but also we here in parliament, have a duty to be exacting as to the quality and veracity of scientific approaches. you're not a scientist, and neither are we here, and we have to rely on real research. but at the moment, not relying on the precautionary principle does not seem to me to be appropriate as a responsible and political position. you also said that, you referred to the 'monsanto papers' and we both know the revelations that are made there. at the time when the us courts and the california courts are dealing with this situation, it appears, to our knowledge, that monsanto has known since 1999 that this molecule is potentially carcinogenic. today, it is in this context that the debate has been revived, here, through this oral question. in any case, i cannot take responsibility for it and i will not participate in what may or could potentially be a criminal act, as it is true that if it were to be proved that glyphosate is potentially carcinogenic, we should collectively bear a great deal of responsibility. i therefore ask you to apply this principle of absolute precaution now and then to take into account, as you have expressly said, all scientific expertise on this subject and not just that produced by the european commission agencies, and finally to allow access to all their studies in the interests of absolute transparency. finally, i ask you to prepare, now, other possible molecules for our farmers in the event that glyphosate proves to be potentially carcinogenic because, once again, if we do nothing, they will be the first victims of a system in which they are hostages.
"blue card" reply to takis hadjigeorgiou. i think it is very clear from what i said earlier that the question is not whether we are for or against, but whether or not this product poses a danger to human health. i am waiting for the scientists to give us clear and certain answers so that i can assume my elected role.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, to talk about glyphosate is of course to talk about the weight of monsanto, but also about the opacity regarding the disclosure of the studies carried out on this product and its impact on the environment and therefore on humans. the european chemicals agency refused to classify this product as carcinogenic, which of course allows it to remain on the market. the vast majority of farmers want to continue using glyphosate because it is the only product that effectively meets their needs. the precautionary principle might, of course, require us to ban it, but that would not solve everything. the problem is what to replace it with. today, there are no substitutes. the debate is therefore no longer about the dangers of glyphosate. the real question is what alternative solution is the commission working on. can it be transparent about the funds allocated to research and development of substitute products? finally, i think that farmers should be heard in these consultations, because they are the main users of glyphosate, often because they have no other choice. their voices must be heard and taken into account in the debate on glyphosate and in the search for a viable alternative.
mr president, commissioner, i am worried about you. for months, monsanto has been pursuing smear campaigns against the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), a united nations agency. this firm is threatening independent researchers to silence them. this campaign is reminiscent of the scandalous, even criminal, practices of philip morris in recent decades to explain that tobacco was harmless. it's the same firm that defended the tobacco industry that now defends monsanto. since then, these industrialists have been banned from the world health organization (who) and the international life sciences institute (ilsi), which is now the armed wing of the glyphosate defense. iarc scientists have classified glyphosate as a "probable carcinogen". the commission relies on the iarc to ban a number of chemicals. why doesn't she do it for glyphosate? commissioner, i ask you to put in place a moratorium until the light is fully on and possibly take action against monsanto if it is found that the company has cheated.
mr president, commissioner, the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate for a further ten years reveals the limits of european regulation, which is struggling to find an alternative to this herbicide. the monsanto papers have warned us about the reliability of private research and have shown us the influence of very large groups on policy makers. this balance of forces places private interests above the general interest. the bayer-monsanto merger, planned for the end of the year, is an additional threat to a private group of global scope to have more influence on political decision-making and to impose its vision of agriculture on farmers, as well as on european countries. can the commission therefore state its position on the bayer-monsanto merger? the second problem is that of research, carried out in particular in european universities and other public structures, to find a sufficient substitute for glyphosate. does the commission intend to encourage, through the european union's research programmes, an impact study on other available molecules and technologies? the european institutions are there for the very reason that they exist.
mr president, commissioner, i know your honesty, i know your expertise, i know your willingness, because we are working together, to protect the health of europeans. this is a matter of urgency. it is urgent that you take a protective initiative in the coming months, before next autumn, to first of all counter the growing concern of europeans about the recent revelations about this endocrine disruptor damaging to their good health and life expectancy. there is also urgency about the concerns that are developing due to the lack of transparency. the opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa) was allegedly based on studies sponsored by the agrochemical industry. the identity of the 73 national experts who participated in this evaluation remains unknown. i hope that before the member states take their decision in the autumn, the new french minister, nicolas hulot, will be in line with what he said on 20 april in the framework of the nicolas hulot foundation: yes, we must take responsibility and protect the health of europeans by banning this renewal of glyphosate, given the growing concern it raises.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this is our fourth debate on the democratic republic of congo (drc) in less than a year. at the end of last year, we had a wind of hope, but the episcopal conference itself has just thrown in the towel and joseph kabila is still clinging to power. his recent statements are worrying. "we need perfect elections", he told us, adding that he had not promised anything. we are left speechless. human rights violations are getting worse, including murder, as you said last march to un experts. why then is it surprising that the number of displaced persons and refugees is increasing? we all know that multinational companies in the congo are partly responsible for financing the armed groups operating there. so, in addition to the un support and the much needed humanitarian aid, action must be taken, in particular by using the legislation on blood minerals, even if it is reduced to the appropriate portion by the council. it is a tool the union must use to turn speeches into action.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our resolutions rightly highlight the human and humanitarian toll of the conflict in the democratic republic of congo. however, i fear that they are wrong about the causes of this situation which has been going on since 1998 and which has already killed between six and eight million people across the great lakes region of africa. indeed, who prepared the so-called "rebel operation" in uganda? not joseph kabila, not even laurent-désiré kabila, who was brought in, but the western powers. who is responsible for the execution of laurent-désiré kabila? not joseph kabila, the western powers. who keeps the country in disorder so they can plunder the country's resources? not joseph kabila, the western powers. who let paul kagame occupy the east of the country to export the stolen minerals in the drc to rwanda? not joseph kabila, the western powers. who is proposing to add destabilization to the democratic formalism? still the western powers, not joseph kabila. colleagues, while a smooth transition has been negotiated through the bishops, some of you are more intransigent than the congolese opposition, while president kabila follows the constitution, through the new year's eve agreements still in force. you are more extreme than the congolese in forgetting the purpose of these agreements, namely stability, security for all congolese. on december 31st, there will be a transition. i hope it will be for peace.
madam president, commissioner, we see that yemen is today the epicentre of most of the tensions and rivalries in the middle east. the humanitarian, food and health situation is dramatic. the new tensions in the region, as well as the embargo imposed on qatar by some of its neighbours, are not helping. these measures weaken the gulf coalition that has been formed around yemen and they increase the country's fragility. you were talking a moment ago about the need to be coordinated. how can help be coordinated when those who have to help are themselves divided? how can there be help when we see that an embargo, which always weighs heavily on the most vulnerable, also tends to weaken economic resources? it is urgent to reduce tension in this region, because it is friendly with all countries. europe has a vital role to play. so, commissioner, what measures and initiatives do you intend to take in the coming days to reduce this tension which is a direct threat to yemen, to the stability of the region, but also to the security and stability of our own region?
for the gue/ngl group madam president, freedom of expression is in trouble. the situation is worsening in two thirds of the countries listed by reporters without borders (rsf), including so-called democratic countries. europe was the geographical area which experienced the greatest deterioration in its overall index. globally, about 100 journalists lost their lives in 2016, and nearly 350 of them are imprisoned, one third in turkey alone, another third in china, iran and egypt, which is particularly symbolic of this deterioration. some 50 journalists are also being held hostage, mainly in the middle east, the most dangerous region in the world. we can also talk about the internet shutdowns before elections or during social movements and here, it is the african continent that seems to have the advantage of regression or repression of bloggers. the adoption of the eu's guidelines in 2014 was therefore good news, provided that it served a purpose. but on this and other subjects, we really feel that european leaders are talking more than ever and that this is hardly translated into the reality of policies. if i had to take a few examples, i would mention turkey, egypt or tanzania. it is good to say that civil society is also consulted, but it is even better when the implementation affects all the eu's partners, whatever they may be.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the arrival of a new president in the republic of serbia. however, we would draw the attention of the european parliament to the fact that today serbia is subjected by the european union to the brezhnev doctrine. a foreign policy doctrine, which unfortunately has three aims. firstly, to make membership of the european union conditional on membership of nato: i recall the massacres perpetrated by nato in 1999 in yugoslavia. secondly, to make serbia's accession conditional on the renunciation of its minorities - i am thinking in particular of the serb republic of bosnia and kosovo - and to make accession also conditional on the severance of the close ties between serbia and russia. that is why i think we must realise that serbia has no interest in wanting to join the european union, which is a trap against the interests of the serbian people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is very similar in its wording to last year's report, which was presented by the same rapporteur. it is not entirely negative. it recognises that serbia has a european vocation. however, what is the price to pay for this dimension? serbia must deny its history when it is asked to treat kosovo as an equal partner when this entity, islamized and run by organized crime, was snatched from it by nato bombing, in defiance of international law. serbia must come under the domination of mr soros's 'open society' which influences this parliament, and deal with the consequences of the insane migration policy that this gentleman has prepared and that the german government has taken over. serbia must give up its natural role as a bridge between russia and europe and follow a european union on the brink of collapse, a union which is - excuse my ridiculousness - applauding the entry of montenegro. in fact, what we are asking serbia to do is to renounce its identity and sovereignty.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, between 1999 and 2004, 150 churches and monasteries in kosovo were looted, destroyed or burned. clearly, the present kosovar society rejects the history of the territory on which it stands. it would have been better known as a way of expressing its attachment to european history. think of the signal you're sending by reaching out to those who want to make our history disappear. unesco, the former home of the united nations, was right to reject kosovo's membership. it is well aware that it is unthinkable to entrust today the control of the four world heritage sites of the serbian orthodox church to those who plundered them yesterday. let us follow his example, let us renounce this integration. in addition to being a danger to european culture, the stubbornness to integrate kosovo is at the risk of our security. in the same article, the rapporteur exposes drug trafficking, human trafficking and the illegal trade and possession of weapons, and welcomes the commission's proposal to liberalize the visa regime. it's more than indulgence, it's complacency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the next european council will be moving towards more immigration, or should we say, migration flooding. the newly elected french president seems to want to impose one of his most harmful vices, namely the common european right of asylum. it is very likely that the purpose of the directive is to replace national legislation. the right of asylum has been the exclusive prerogative of states since their inception. asylum should be granted or not on a case-by-case basis. we totally reject such a drift which would further increase the pressure on our countries to migrate and, moreover, deprive them of any decision-making power.
mr president, the message we must send to the heads of state or government before the next european council is that the time for clarity has come. major political events, from brexit to the us withdrawal from the paris agreement, to donald trump's unconscious decision, offer us a unique opportunity to be clear about who we are and what we stand for. europe is changing and its future is being built every day, in our work and on priorities: a social and just europe, with the revision of the directive on the posting of workers, which did not wait for the recent willingness of france to have meps take up the matter; the strengthening of the economic and monetary area; a europe of defence; a trade policy that serves fair trade and protects our economic interests and jobs. european leaders must have the courage to stand firm and above all the will to unite. firmness with turkey, for example, which must finally understand that no membership of our union is possible. unity, then, to show mr trump's united states or mr putin's russia that europe is back to build a bloc that protects its citizens and is strong on the international stage. unity, finally, so that the 27 member states are united in the brexit negotiations alongside the commission and michel barnier. mrs may, who has been clearly weakened by the recent elections in the united kingdom, will have to understand that we cannot win on all counts and that belonging to our community of destiny or leaving it is not and will never be a simple game.
in writing. the us withdrawal from the paris agreement is a reminder of the primacy of national sovereignty and a campaign commitment by the white house candidate. we regret this, however, because sustainable development must unite across party lines. the consequences of this decision, which would not take effect until 2020, i.e. in the wake of the next us presidential election, are to be nuanced, especially in view of the weight of the united states of 14% in global emissions. by contrast, china accounts for 29% of the total, but is subject to less stringent obligations under the agreement. for the europeans, the american withdrawal opens a breach. china, which has overtaken europeans, including germany, in the photovoltaic sector since 2015, cannot be the sole innovator in renewable energy. the european union must take action to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. beyond the industrial project, it is a question of delivering on the promises made to europeans about the energy transition: those of a new economic model, a source of growth and jobs.
madam president, president trump's decision to withdraw the united states from the paris agreement has caused a global outcry. even the chairman of goldman sachs, who was not known to be so concerned about the planet, went there from his little conviction. i, for one, will not dramatize this decision. firstly, because the paris agreement is not legally binding, whatever one may say, and there is nothing to force its signatories to implement it. it is above all a political commitment. second, the us withdrawal will not be effective until 2020, and many sub-federal authorities in the us - states, major cities - have stated that they want to pursue policies in line with the agreements. and finally, because americans have business sense: if it proves profitable to invest in the green economy and the economic sectors that go with it, they will do so. my concern is rather with the prospect of a european surcharge which, under the pretext of compensating for the supposed effects of this withdrawal, would be imposed on our economy. i note that mr pittella has become a supporter of tariffs to ward off unfair competition when it comes to the united states. i hope it will be the same in other circumstances.
madam president, no one can now say that they knew nothing about climate change: the recurrence of natural disasters, increasingly violent, affecting deprived territories and therefore poor populations, impoverishing them a little more, the rising waters, which threaten the coasts and islands, and finally drought, which is responsible for famine in east africa, are unfortunately a reality and may eventually lead to the exodus of thousands, even millions of people, not to mention our biodiversity, which is also at risk. president trump has pulled the united states out of the paris agreement. it is an irresponsible decision that "guards" its own country, preventing americans from entering modernity. the protection of our environment and the technological revolution it brings are what modernity is all about. our companies have understood this issue well, and they are investing in rapid access to the most efficient technologies. they're defending their jobs and they have our support. the paris agreement was a global success. europe has set itself a clear and visionary path to defend the climate. some in this house think our legislation is going too far, but no, we are simply ambitious and responsible for future generations.
madam president, what a fine unanimity in this parliament against donald trump. indeed, the decision of the american president is irresponsible and criminal. but, frankly, if the climate and environmental speeches were to save the planet, it would be known. the credibility of climate diplomacy, the credibility of leadership, is the credibility of climate action that is being asked. too often, the european commission and the council, as well as the right wing of this parliament, by listening too much to the lobbies of nuclear, oil, gas, intensive agriculture, forestry and transport, do not see all the smes, researchers, start-ups, communities and citizens who want to do more for the climate and who are building the world of tomorrow today. if there is a good project for europe, it is to reconcile ourselves with the future, with the climate. it is about creating jobs. and there we will reconcile europeans with europe and reconcile europe with the rest of the world. then act, act, act!
madam president, in this extremely air-conditioned chamber full of members who have flown in from all over europe, this latest condemnation of the president of the united states seems to me as hypocritical as the condemnation of the saudis for qatar's support for the jihadist movement. his decision is the decision of a democratically elected head of state who has never hidden his climate-skepticism and who has only one goal, to protect american jobs. you better take a lesson from them, you who can't fight unemployment or terrorism, but you claim to be doing something about the climate. it is urgent, however, to be concerned about the jobs of our workers, whose jobs are threatened, those who have not yet been thrown out of work by the consequences of your policies and whose companies will now suffer a further decline in competitiveness in the face of their formidable american competitors. mr. trump is very wrong indeed, not to pretend to want to respect an agreement, not legally binding, but on the contrary to officially affirm what he believes is good for his fellow citizens. but it's so hard for you to admit it, so different from the way you think and act.
madam president, commissioner, the european union has two answers to give president trump. firstly, at the cop23 in bonn from 7 to 16 november, let us take this leadership to enable the world, behind the union's concrete proposals, to combat this wait-and-see attitude or this ridiculous decision by the us president. and of course, we know that today in america, the negative reactions to mr. trump are significant: many companies and cities, but also thirty out of fifty states condemn his attitude. therefore, commissioner, let us contact these states, these american companies and these cities to establish cooperation with the union in the coming months at cop23.
mr president, mr prime minister of malta, you think you have answered the accusations of corruption against your entourage by calling early elections in your country. but a re-election doesn't remove suspicion. only a serious investigation by the prosecuting authority can do that. do you hereby pledge to guarantee genuine independent police investigations? similarly, hiding behind eu membership to refute the fact that malta can be a tax haven is not a serious response. what then is a country that loses €2 billion in tax revenues to other member states every year, according to the 'malta files'? as long as the member states are not included in the european blacklist of tax havens, no, mr muscat, being part of the european union will not be enough to rule out the qualification as a tax haven. it is time for our governments to realize the damage these tax practices are doing. the french minister for the economy, bruno le maire, also did not seem to have taken any action, since he considered it perfectly legal that renault and psa were evading €119 million in taxes by setting up subsidiaries in malta. no, what some call tax optimisation is in fact tax evasion through misuse of transfer pricing and is therefore fraudulent.
mr president, the european union is trying to present itself as the europe of values. it is only the europe of businessmen. we already had jean-claude juncker, the great architect of tax evasion, at the head of the commission, and now we have malta, a tax haven, at the head of the european council. it is quite interesting to note that, to enhance its image, the european parliament has set up a committee of inquiry into the panama papers scandal, on which i have the honour of sitting. an investigation by an international network of journalists has just revealed that malta, a small country of less than 500 000 inhabitants, is depriving its eu partners of €2 billion in tax revenue a year. the union is doing nothing in the face of this scandal! i accuse it of deliberately allowing multinationals, banks and politicians to benefit from this tax evasion. i call on europeans, and especially the french, to open their eyes to the true nature of the union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. madam president, we have of course supported the initiative of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), and it is clear that this initiative is generally a success. this is a perfect success in small and medium-sized enterprises for the european investment fund (eif). it is also a quantitative success, but we have some remarks and, as my colleague has just said, some disappointments on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (tran). transport was considered, for the infrastructure part, as an essential element, with a minimum percentage. secondly, it was considered that these projects should have a qualitative european added value. it is clear that there is no quality or quantity in transport, and that this is all the more frustrating because it has been the subject of a leakage, as i have just said, of funds from a mechanism which is working perfectly well and which is already exhausted by its success, namely the mechanism for interconnection in europe. i don't want to believe that they'll go so far as to puncture him a second time. i want to conclude by saying that the european investment bank (eib) is not a bank. the eib is first and foremost an institution of the union, and as such, additionality, the guarantee of the first losses and support for european policies must be reconsidered; this will be the subject of the efsi 2 regulation, which we hope will be the case.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, as commissioner moscovici has just said, there may be disagreements between us, differences of assessment, but i think that at this stage everyone agrees first of all to recognize the merits of a major investment plan in a european union which continues to suffer from a chronic deficit of public and private investment. i remind you that we are 15% below the level of 2008. it is true that we would like to enrich efsi. there is of course the intensification of the thematic diversity (i am thinking in particular of the ecological transition issues) and there is the regional dimension of the projects financed: i still believe it is abnormal that greece still has only limited access to this fund. on behalf of the committee on international trade (inta), of which i was rapporteur for opinion, i would like to stress two points. the first concerns small and mediumsized enterprises. it is true that the sme financing component of the fund has worked well, but we would also like to see a mission to help small and medium-sized enterprises to internationalise. the second point concerns tax conditionality, and i thank the rapporteurs for their sensitivity. a number of project promoters have been linked to tax havens, which in my view is contrary to the union's external tax doctrine. it would be appropriate to remedy that.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, when we launched this project in 2012 as an investment agency, we were concerned with solving the problem of the north-south disparity through money creation. not by recession and unemployment, but by injecting real money into profitable projects. allow the south to create more wealth so that it doesn't have to rebuild its accounts through recession and unemployment. so i will still have to be told how 21 billion has become 315 billion and how the problem of growth in activity and employment in france, spain and italy has been solved, which is absolutely essential today, and how much of a positive result there has been. we need to set up an investment agency, we need to invest real currency. so the 1.4 billion dollars that we used to buy treasury bonds should have been invested in the real economy instead.
madam president, the european fund for strategic investments, which we launched in 2016, was intended to mobilise up to eur 315 billion of investment in europe by mid-2018. it is clear that, despite significant numerical results, efsi has not demonstrated its additionality. the nature of the projects supported raises questions about the choices made and the impact of the opportunity that a number of national authorities have been able to seize. why does europe need to invest more to restore confidence by supporting the sectors of the future? the needs are many: infrastructure, including broadband, a 'carbon-free' economy, support for smes, support for research, the fight against youth unemployment, etc. so let us go further and support these future projects with public investment. at the very least, we should ask the eib to make an effort on the rates and conditions of lending so that projects with the efsi label are more distinct, and in any case more clearly distinguished from the eib's conventional actions.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on foreign investment in strategic sectors (eu actions) (2017/2730 ((rsp)).
madam president, europe has become a vast investment supermarket, where our companies, strategic and otherwise, are self-service for predatory foreign interests. at the request of certain member states, the commission is preparing measures to control such investments, possibly blocking them on the grounds of economic security or damage to economic prosperity. unfortunately, it is not certain that the treaties allow it to do so, since they fortunately leave it to the states to define and defend their essential interests. moreover, even if these concepts could be defined at european level, should the commission be entrusted with the supervision of these investments, since it is incapable, particularly in relation to china, of guaranteeing reciprocity, of denouncing unfair competition from oversubsidized companies or even of taking strong trade protection measures quickly? i have no more confidence, it must be said and acknowledged, in my country, where mr macron is demanding new powers, but when he was minister for the economy, he never used the possibilities of the montebourg decree. he let general electric take over alstom and the finnish nokia, alcatel-lucent.
madam president, madam minister, mr commissioner, foreign investment is contributing to our growth and we must continue to attract it. but, on the other hand, in some third countries, our entrepreneurs regularly encounter obstacles that prevent them from developing. this is why it is crucial that reciprocity finally becomes the focus of the european union's investment policy. we must get our foreign partners to open up their markets to us on an equal footing. finally, we must above all respond to a worrying situation: some foreign investors may, by accessing the european market, take control of strategic sectors, notably security or energy. europe must quickly develop effective tools to control this type of investment. fair and honest trade is only possible if everyone respects fair rules. we therefore call on the commission to act and to come forward with a proposal quickly.
madam president, this debate is absolutely fundamental, and we are obliged, as has just been done, to start with concrete examples. in concrete terms, chinese investment in europe has increased fivefold in four years, and at the same time the chinese authorities are imposing increasingly strict conditions to prevent european operators from establishing themselves on their market. yes, of course there is a problem of reciprocity and major risks for europe, because our strategic sectors, such as robotics, defence, high technology and the airport sector, are targeted. the risk is that technology transfers to a foreign country will, in the long run, obviously threaten our european interests. some member states have made arrangements. i am thinking in particular of france, but i am of the opinion that the whole of the european union would be well advised to do so, especially since the other industrialised countries are fighting back in the field of foreign investment, as indeed in the field of access to public contracts. look at what canada is doing, what japan is doing, what the united states is doing, what australia is doing. in short, we cannot just sit back and say that all investors are welcome, without ever defending our companies and our member states. i would remind you, however, that the obama administration had arbitrarily decided, without any possibility of legal recourse, to reject all foreign investment projects that were deemed contrary to us interests. i believe that europe must act and be inspired by these policies of firmness both in public procurement and in foreign investment. i therefore call on the commission to act.
madam president, can our companies' investments be strategic? of course i did. can foreign investment in europe be strategic? of course i did. is there a threat to our industrial know-how today due to the acquisition of strategic european companies? of course i did. does the lack of reciprocity in investment create a distortion of competition? of course i did. do some member states, such as france, protect themselves against investments they consider hostile? of course i did. is there a risk that we will not have the same level of protection if there is no coordination between member states? of course i did. you see, commissioner, i do not need to ask you whether the commission needs to take up the matter of coordinating and protecting our companies against hostile foreign investments. of course we have to, and time is running out because we are no longer in the anticipation phase, we are already suffering the consequences.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on child poverty (2017/2731 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on the digital economy with the report by nicola danti, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the european agenda for the collaborative economy (2017/2003 (ini)) (a8-0195/2017) and the report by henna virkkunen and philippe juvin, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on online platforms and the digital single market (2016/2276 (ini)) (a8-0204/2017).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, much has been said so far in this debate about platforms and the digital economy. i agree with all the points that have been made. the question of platforms is both simple and complicated. platforms are the key to the modern economy. they have considerable advantages for consumers, who can compare, who can buy and who have a freedom that they did not have before. they are an extraordinary opportunity for education and access to knowledge. we remember when we were students, when we didn't have these platforms and we had to spend hours in the library. all that is over. our entire society is evolving because of platforms. they are a positive and wonderful tool. at the same time, the question we are asking both the european parliament and the european commission is whether these platforms should be subject to a number of common rules in all eu countries. the first is the question of the homogenisation of european rules. it is clear that if we want a digital single market, we will need to have common rules and definitions in all eu countries. we have to talk about the same thing everywhere. if we do not make this effort to harmonise european law, including on definitions, we are either subject to a fragmentation of the law and therefore to a weakening of the platforms and the european economy, or we are subject to the good will of the judge who, through case law, will change the law, which we do not want. the second point, which is a key point, is the question of the responsibility of the platforms. you know that today, platforms are held accountable by rules that were enacted more than 15 years ago. the world has changed in 15 years. at that time, there were two types of host: active and inactive. clearly, this distinction no longer reflects reality. there are now many platforms that are not just storing data but are selecting it, recommending it, referencing it, monetizing it. our old rules are no longer appropriate, we need to change the rules of platform responsibility. the third point is the question of the protection of the users of these online platforms. it is essential to win the trust of these users, i.e. transparency, a level playing field and a high level of data protection. we remember the case of the blacklisting by a large web hosting company of a british company, which could no longer be seen on the market because this large web hosting company, which is a platform, had decided to promote its own company, which had the same economic activity. there must be transparency and the rules must be fair and shared. the fourth point concerns the question of the taxation of platforms. it is something fundamental. to move quickly on a complex subject, we want things to be simple and parliament will, i hope, support this proposal tomorrow by voting on our report. the platforms have to pay taxes in europe, where they have their customers or their users. then, of course, there is the question of vat. vat is a very smart old tax, except that it is totally unsuited to the digital economy, and especially the platform economy. we need to invent a new tax system that will give a boost to this new economy. finally, there is the question of b2b relations. it is clear that every effort must be made to prevent platforms that dominate very often concentrated markets from imposing unfair practices on new entrants. we want to avoid that. the market cannot regulate everything and we are waiting for the commission to make proposals. as you understand, ladies and gentlemen, the real question we are asking ourselves, together with henna virkkunen, is whether we want a digital single market, whether we want genuine european digital sovereignty, whether we want to see european champions emerge, whether we simply want to participate in the evolution of a new economy through new definitions and new rules for platforms.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the collaborative economy and the use of digital platforms are a real revolution for many economic sectors that are already highly destabilised. a balanced and non-partisan analysis should have taken stock of the opportunities offered by this new economic model, but above all should have paid particular attention to the immense risks it poses to millions of people. the concerns of the rapporteurs are facade-deep. the only thing they fear is the fragmentation of the single market, which they believe is threatened by uncoordinated legal responses by member states to try to regulate the sector. the collaborative economy is primarily the result of organised economic deregulation, a contraction in the real economy and wages, the explosion of unemployment and tax fraud. monetising private property is not a choice, but often becomes an economic necessity. the solutions proposed will therefore have no other use than political. they thus tend to guarantee only one thing: compliance with the european commission's timetable on the digital single market. the real issues at stake are forgotten: digital independence and network security, stability of the real economy and the labour market, protection of consumers and businesses, and the fight against fiscal dumping.
madam president, there is enormous potential in the collaborative economy, and europe has the potential to become a leader in this field. this new digital economy enables many retired people, young people, the unemployed, students and precarious employees to find employment and supplement their income. our entrepreneurs are inventing new services every day and we need to encourage the development of these start-ups. however, the question of the law applicable to such platforms needs to be clarified. the adjective 'collaborative' cannot be a marketing slogan which hides, in reality, a massive circumvention of social rules, unfair competition for our artisans and smes, deception of consumers and tax avoidance. a fair framework is therefore needed and we look forward to the concrete measures that the commission will propose in this regard.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, in 1911 there was a strike by coachmen in paris. they went on strike because they saw motor taxis coming to the market. they thought the world was going to fall apart, because it was going to ruin everyone. well, no, you won't. today, there is an automobile industry in europe. the coachmen were wrong. when i heard earlier from mrs troszczynski, the national front mp, who has left - she came 60 seconds today and she has already left, but i will still answer her - she explained to us that the google or facebook platforms are barbarism - that is the name used by another of her colleagues - and that it can no longer work that way, she did not understand anything. sorry, but platforms are the key to the modern economy. but our role today is to make sure that there are rules. commissioner, i must say that i do not entirely agree with you. it is true that you are right when you say that there is no legal vacuum, there are laws, fortunately, but it seems to me that a number of these laws today do not work. today, if you type dar al-islam on google, on the first page, you have the daesh newspaper that tells you how to kill someone, how to make a bomb, etc. in october, i wrote to google to remove this page - sorry, it's not censorship - and the page still exists. therefore, i think there is a problem and we must find solutions. i do not know what these solutions are, but as henna virkkunen said, we must at least assess the effectiveness of our current legislation. most of them are unfit. we do not necessarily want to legislate, but we do want rules. it may be self-regulation, but it will require something clever. i also share the concerns of both. mr kelly was right earlier when he said: 'no over-regulation'. we must not go from a system with inadequate legislation to one which would create gas factories. he's right, you know. we do not need to over-regulate, but we do need to find solutions, sometimes legislative ones, to fundamental issues. if we do not do this, we will not have a european digital single market, we will have missed a step in europe, we will not have european champions. this is simply the subject of this report.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr moscovici has left, and i hope you will take note, because what i am about to say is important. the commission criticises the netherlands, belgium and france for having too favourable tax regimes for their ports, since these three countries exempt them from corporation tax. until then - i am addressing the commission - you are doing your job: applying european legislation, that is! but you sent questionnaires to the member states to establish for each of them the state of play regarding the ports' corporation taxation. that's where the trouble starts. why not just keep the results secret? we are parliament. why such a lack of transparency? this silence is not without consequences, because it arouses suspicion. why the netherlands first, then belgium, then france and not the others? above all, why not opt for a more political approach by bringing all the member states concerned around the table to think together about what port taxation should be? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
madam president, commissioner, ports - as you know, all this has been said on all these benches - are not businesses like any other. actually, they're not companies. the french ports authorities, because of their strategic location, support public service missions by fulfilling crucial royal missions. in this house, everyone agrees: land use planning, maritime police, the fight against terrorism, guaranteeing access for transport operators, particularly by dredging. all these activities of the public authorities cannot be carried out by companies. that is why the co-signatories, including myself, together with the french, the belgian and the dutch, tabled an oral question on port taxation on 13 march. we are waiting for a response from you today which is in line with our views, and unfortunately that is not the case. we believe that the corporate tax exemptions enjoyed by european ports are legitimate and desirable. the commission's working methods and substance are in need of revision. commissioner, why not publish the results of the questionnaires sent to the french, belgian and dutch tax authorities? why only three out of 28 member states, without any further justification? tomorrow it's spain, then italy? my answer is that of the four largest ports, three, which alone account for 72% of the market share, are covered by the survey. only one state got away with it. which one? germany, with the port of hamburg. president juncker announced at the beginning of his mandate that the commission would be more political and more pragmatic. i note that the commission has just taken a highly political decision based on a techno-structure at the service of germany. you've conducted a charge investigation, and i'm asking you to review your copy. i have just referred the matter to the president of the french republic and the ministers concerned, one of whom is a co-signer of this oral question.
madam president, commissioner, i would first like to welcome the recent progress on state aid for ports and airports. i would remind you, for example, that one euro invested in an airport means 20 euros of benefits for the territory. the public investment aid is therefore not in vain. we are talking tonight about ports, which are essential tools for trade between europe and the world. after questioning member states on the taxation regimes of port systems in july 2013, the commission initiated, without any real transparency, proceedings against france, belgium and the netherlands. the commission considers that the exemption from corporation tax would constitute state aid. it must be understood, as my colleague renaud muselier and others have just said, that ports are not businesses like any other, because they also carry out royal public service missions. following our question with oral answer, supported by many french, belgian and dutch members of parliament, we are meeting not to give or receive lessons, but to propose solutions. in the interests of realism, we therefore propose that the commission suspend its proceedings and bring together the port states and their stakeholders in the sector, so that listening, understanding the issues and, above all, the search for sustainable solutions are finally at the forefront.
author. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, manufacturing today represents only 13% of gdp in europe, half the figure in 1980. this means that we are experiencing a profound crisis of competitiveness. many jobs have been threatened, and they are still threatened, because we failed to anticipate the industrial revolution. for a long time, we forgot about our industry. as a result, we now have to look at it from the side, because our companies have suffered the full effects of international competition and the loss of their competitiveness. the rejuvenation of european industry is a priority, as our industry contributes significantly to research and development. without industry, there is no innovation and there is no growth. some formerly industrial regions of europe have become their first technology hubs and are becoming regions where start-ups are coexisting with universities. this new breath is the hope of a redevelopment of employment and a new attractiveness for investors. but we need a truly integrated industrial policy. we need to bring up european champions who export abroad. european competition policy must not be allowed to impede the creation of these champions. we cannot treat industrial policy with a narrow vision. it is therefore essential that we give meaning to each of the tools we use. i shall not go into detail, but my colleague, mrs toia, has already spoken about it. finally, our industry needs visibility and stability, fiscal and legal, in order to be able to make long-term investments. we must also train our younger generations in the professions of tomorrow, especially in the digital field. this will be the sine qua non of the future of european industry.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is good to see you again, i was worried, i almost called for a kidnapping alert because you are absent. since your 2014 hearing, you have announced that you want to increase the weight of industry to 20% of european gdp, you want to become a leader again in a number of segments, etc. you have indeed skillfully surfed on the legacy of your predecessors, and i am thinking particularly of galileo, but what have you undertaken yourself? the account is not there. it is therefore high time that you put a roadmap on the table to achieve the goal we have collectively set ourselves. this cannot be limited to the organisation of high-level meetings or other face-offs, it does not advance the cause. nor can this road map be simply the addition of sectoral policies which you regularly boast about, but whose levers often escape you. we need a real strategy to give european industry a future. we socialists reject it on three counts. first, a sustainable industry. it is not enough to gargle with cop21. we can maintain industrial activity, including heavy industry, on european territory, provided that we make sustainability the first element of competitiveness. the carbon levy, unfortunately, is a non-investment incentive. we also need to accelerate policies such as the circular economy. you've spoken about it, we expect action. secondly, fair competition at international level. this concerns both international trade, what some call smart protectionism or at least the end of european naivety (i am thinking in particular of the chinese example), the right to competition and the re-evaluation of the relevant market, taking into account the reality of globalisation and greater flexibility as regards the emergence of european champions. finally, we need an industry that is knowledgeable and respectful of social dialogue. there can be no european industry without well-trained workers, adequately protected against the hazards of an increasingly financialised economy and able to play their full role, as experts in their own tools, in the sound management and strategic decisions of their enterprises.
madam president, the member states of the union have been deindustrialising for more than 20 years. for the euro area countries, with the exception of germany, where the euro is strong and maintained, deindustrialisation is even faster. the european doctrine of the knowledge economy has contributed since the early 2000s to the loss of competitiveness of our industries vis-à-vis emerging countries. the union has failed to innovate, being left behind by asian countries and the united states for lack of sufficient investment. nor has it been able to protect itself from competition from regions lacking our social standards. these are the real reasons for the gradual relocation, sometimes even when the factories are doing well. it is no coincidence that the share of european industry in world gdp has declined from 30.4% in 2008 to 23.8% today. the european commission's declarations of intent in the face of this reality seem to be marked by hypocrisy and incompetence. the postponement to 2030 of the target of increasing the share of industry in the union's gdp to 20% by 2020 is proof of this. the commission is trying to calm the anger caused by the many factory closures and the dismantling of entire parts of our industry, when it is largely responsible for the total lack of control and globalisation, by tirelessly reiterating the idea of free competition while our competitors develop protective systems. the alstom and caterpillar cases are a good example of the vagaries of a european economy that is unable to set a strategy and defend itself. why continue to support policies that are ruining us? it is time we took back control of our destiny and our instruments of sovereignty. you want to be ambitious? so, have the courage to give up your ideals and, finally, defend our industry. it's time to do it now. after that, it'll be too late.
madam president, commissioner, as we know, the european union's industrial policy has never been truly ambitious. by prioritising services over industry, we have left entire sectors of our economy behind, leading to the elimination of 3.5 million industrial jobs between 2008 and 2014. this lack of strategy poses major problems for employment, innovation and social and territorial cohesion. today, beyond sectoral approaches, we need a framework, a vision, a roadmap for the medium and long term. we need a coherent link between trade, environmental, energy, investment, competition and employment policies. europe has important industrial outlets, with world leaders in pharmaceuticals, automobiles, chemicals, steel and railways. let's not let our competitors distance us by being too naive or too shy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all too aware of the dramatic errors that have been made in the use of the death penalty. pakistan not only uses the death penalty, but also uses it without any control. it cannot be tolerated that such a sentence is used against minors, and it is unacceptable that it is implemented even before a final judgment has been pronounced. there have been cases of executions carried out before the trial was completed. the total absence of safeguards against such a dangerous and inhuman instrument poses a terrible threat to all citizens, since the death penalty is imposed for offences which in other countries are not subject to such a classification. the case of blasphemy, which has been mentioned repeatedly, is an example of this. we must therefore strongly condemn the misconduct of the pakistani government and demand that it cease to use such a sentence. the european union's cooperation with pakistan obliges us to do so.
author. mr president, indonesia is a great country, long described as a model of tolerance, especially religious tolerance, with the exception of the suharto period, which claimed at least 500 000 victims, including many communist or alleged communist militants. it is time to bring to justice those responsible for the crimes of 1965, which the president of the republic himself has called crimes against humanity, as the united nations commission on human rights has been calling for since 1972. the repression of atheism in this country is mostly a sad relic of that period. the country is doing badly on many issues. the death penalty is increasingly being used in the fight against drug trafficking, including against foreigners. an example of this is the case of serge atlaoui, a frenchman. the number of attacks on press freedom, including against foreign journalists, is increasing. for example, french journalists franck escudié and basile longchamp were expelled on 17 march. the same is true of the political repression of peace activists, especially papuan peace activists. at least 2,200 of them were arrested between april and september 2016. the same goes for blasphemy, which governor ahok was accused of. in addition, violence against lgbti people is on the rise, aggravated by unprecedentedly violent political discourse. the arrest of 141 people in a gay club on the grounds of pornography on 21 may is a sad example, as are the two men who were publicly flogged for sodomy. this worrying deterioration of the situation cannot be allowed to pass without consequences in the union's relations with indonesia. it is time to act and react by using all the means at our disposal, including the abolition of the criminal provisions that allow these incriminations. we must also obtain the release of all those who are victims of these laws of another age and the abandonment of all prosecutions against them.
mr president, we can indeed welcome the progress made in indonesia in the economic and social fields, thanks in particular to the partnership with the european union. but we must remain very vigilant on the issues of freedom and human rights. we must reject all attacks on religious freedom and sexual preferences. each individual must be able to live according to his or her own personal aspirations and orientations. the rise of intolerance, noted by many international observers, is particularly worrying. we must therefore urge the central government to be vigilant on these issues of rights and freedoms and strongly ask it to review the liberticidal legislation of another age. aceh's torture session should make him pay particular attention to what's going on in his provinces. and then, in indonesia as elsewhere, we cannot accept that freedom of expression is violated and journalists are imprisoned. the european union must put pressure on indonesia to come to its senses.
madam president, my point concerns rule 150 of our rules of procedure. i am, alas, already a very long-standing member of this parliament and i must say that i am very concerned about the diminishing of the guarantees of parliamentary immunity, the sole legitimate purpose of which is to guarantee the freedom of political expression of members of parliament when they are being prosecuted by political opponents or when, as a member of the opposition, they are being prosecuted by a hostile government or by hostile administrative authorities acting through prosecutors. this is no longer the case. it is absolutely scandalous that in a parliament like ours, which claims to be the guarantor of public freedoms and the presumption of innocence, the person concerned should not be given the opportunity to express himself at the sitting, that the legal affairs committee should be convened in absolutely chaotic conditions, which are unworthy of our rules of procedure, that it should not be the same members who are present at the hearing of the person concerned and who take the decision, which obviously vitiates the decision in question... (the president withdrew from the floor)
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the family is the basic unit of society. it is based on the natural complementarity between men and women, on the acceptance of life from conception, on education, which is done by families and not by the states, which must help families. but can we say that this parliament or this commission is on the side of the families? no, unfortunately not. can we speak of families and carers in the face of the austerity policy which has destroyed the family budgets of many member states, which destroys and reduces life expectancy, as in italy, with the demographic winter which our nations are suffering, particularly in the south? can we talk about the family when we want to impose minority family models on member states through aggressive lgbt and gender propaganda, repeatedly and repeatedly in every motion? can we talk about family when we leave thousands of europeans without hope of a better future for their children and when we open up to immigration, when we already have 50% unemployment in our areas, the politicians, in the words of the united nations? ma'am, i have two minutes. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, commissioner, this family day comes at a time when this fundamental social structure is under threat, as evidenced by the increase in the number of single-parent families and the decline in the birth rate. the role of the family in the education of children is essential, especially at a time when this task is too often entrusted to the school, which is already responsible for education. yet, many studies confirm the link between a favorable family environment and academic success. it is therefore essential to protect the child by guaranteeing him the family balance to which he is entitled. i am of course in favour of taking into account the invisible work done by mothers and fathers. however, as stated in the un resolution cited in support of this text, respect for the diversity of member states' social systems justifies measures at national level.
member of the commission. – madam president, we have had a very interesting exchange of views, and, as the honourable members have rightly mentioned, this is a very complex issue. we need not only to do something, but we need to take the concrete actions which the commission presented and see how to move forward. the commission is fully committed to protecting minors and to ensuring freedom of speech. this debate will certainly help us in our internal work to prepare targeted measures to ensure that platforms take action against hate speech or content which is harmful to minors. i also welcome this debate in the context of the upcoming trialogue for the adoption of the audiovisual media services directive. we look forward to the rapid adoption of this directive and future work between the institutions to respond to the challenges of the platforms’ economy. i would like to say once again that we need to have good collaboration and quick reactions and a good trialogue, and to see how to move forward in more concrete ways, keeping account of all the questions which have been raised.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, allow me to pay tribute, as you have done, on behalf of the french delegation of the epp group, which i chair, to mrs simone veil, a french stateswoman, deeply european, who left us last week. his soul will forever be etched in our hearts and memories, and his work should guide our actions. trapped in the death camps of auschwitz in 1944, at the age of 16, a survivor of the atrocities of the holocaust, simone veil embodies courage and symbolises hope. her destiny led her to overcome ideology and political divisions, defending women's rights against conservatism. driven by freedom, simone veil never gave up in the face of the sometimes most cruel obstacles. a woman of peace, a victim of the tragedy of war, mrs veil worked with unique tenacity for a political europe that would bring people together in their diversity. let us be proud to walk through the doors of this institution, which she presided over from 1979 to 1982. above all, let us live up to what mrs simone veil has done in her lifetime. the terrible conflicts that persist in some parts of the world remind us of the inestimable value of peace. we owe this peace on our continent to great men and women. simone veil will be a part of it forever. his talent and political will to build europe obliges us. our societies are losing landmarks and symbols in the face of the immediacy of information and knowledge. but if words pass, deeds remain. throughout her career in public service, mrs veil has been able to combine the power of words with the power of change. as you said, mr president, tomorrow this house will pay a formal tribute to mrs veil. but i wanted to greet the path of this great lady from the very beginning of our work: i must confess that i was moved, and i never thought i would be able to feel that way on the benches of this house.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, i would like to join your remarks on the official memorial service to be held in honour of the great and brilliant simone veil, my french colleagues and all the europeans who, through her death, are paying tribute to a woman who was a symbol of the 20th century. beyond the most appalling torments that this century has been able to bring about with the holocaust, through her luminous personality and what she represents for the 20th century, simone veil was both a politician and a woman in general, who knew how to combine her values, her demands, her will, her determination with a strong and strong character, and who was the first woman president of our european parliament. she brought to my country values that have been reflected beyond france, namely human rights and women's rights through the texts she supported. i am glad that in the heart of the european parliament a tribute is paid to this luminous woman, both by all european citizens, but of course also by the french and by the members of my parliamentary group, to which she belonged.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i thank you for this tribute. i agree with what my colleagues mr proust and mrs griesbeck have said. i would like to point out that simone veil, beyond her political career, has been able to bring together and has done a great deal for europe and for knowledge of europe in france. she also did a lot for women's rights. i am thinking in particular of the question of abortion, which is permitted and legal. it was a fight in an extremely difficult moment, a fight for which we socialists and democrats continue to honour her memory by ensuring that this fight is not in vain, that it is not over and that it can benefit all european women. we therefore pay tribute to his memory.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last friday i visited the brand new headquarters of frontex, the famous european border and coast guard agency, which is supposed to protect us from the massive and uncontrolled influx of illegal immigrants, in warsaw. after acknowledging that the overwhelming majority of these illegal migrants could not be considered refugees, frontex officials alerted us to the very worrying situation off the spanish coast. the number of people crossing the border has increased dramatically, with more than 1 000 people being intercepted every week. never seen in this area! these people come mainly from morocco, which is facing riots in the rif and has been in legal conflict with the european union for almost two years because of a surprising ruling by the european court of justice. that is why i think it is urgent that we have a debate on this very worrying situation... (the president interrupts the speaker) that is why i believe it is urgent that we have a debate on this very worrying situation off the coast of spain, not to mention of course the other entry points, particularly from libya to italy, where the collusion between ngos and smuggling mafias is becoming more evident every day.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has become a prison for the people. it seems that the european commission wants to do business on the backs of the nations. this is very unfortunate, because the european union is no longer the body that guarantees peace in europe, but is instead becoming a conflict actor. today we see that the european union wants to subjugate the nations, and this macrofinancial agreement is unfortunately going in the wrong direction. in october 2017, moldova was granted observer status with the eurasian economic union. this has triggered the ire of the european union, which considers it a declaration of war. but the nations have the right to decide with whom they want to cooperate. the moldovan nation, unfortunately, has been very weakened culturally, because it is divided between east and west, but especially because this nation of 3.5 million people, which i had the opportunity to visit recently, is a nation left behind. today you want to play on the sensibilities of this nation to attract it and make the european union proud, but in fact you are only going to cause problems with russia once again. neutrality is in my view the best possible status for moldova. it must not take sides with either the european union or russia. i think russia has shown that it is capable of moderation in the face of the will of the european union. so i'm asking you today to respect the people, to respect the nations. don't start another war!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the 2009 riots, moldova has seen a succession of pro-european majorities. the leaders of this policy - vlad filat, in prison for corruption, vlad plahotniuc, the country's main oligarch and main corrupter, leader of the ruling party - together with their subordinates stole one billion dollars from the moldovan banking system. we have given this mafia, which claims to be the european union, a license to steal, so to speak. and you want to add another 100 million euros? that's a little too much. don't you think? stop gambling in transnistria, where a border between ukraine and transnistria is being established. why are we trying to escalate tensions? do we want another war? my dear colleagues, to love democracy, to love choice, is to allow moldova to always be in balance between east and west and to remain itself.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, companies and social actors need standards. these standards are crucial instruments for all economic and social actors. they must be efficient and market-oriented in order to foster growth and innovation. they also improve competitiveness, quality and performance, and promote consumer protection, business development, worker conditions and environmental concerns, if they are established in the common interest. they are also - and it is important to remember - a voluntary step by the states, which is a positive step. this approach is ultimately quite contradictory to the highly centralising aspect of the single market project, which is unfortunately defended far too strongly in this text. it is above all cooperation between nations, which i wish to see, that can foster this kind of voluntary approach. in this respect i could support some of the guidelines in this report, but businesses and social actors also need stability, and these standards, useful as they are, must not become obstacles to development, either through chronic instability, or by becoming a real path of struggle or an economic brake for companies already exhausted by strong organized economic deregulation, or finally by becoming the result of strong pressure from special interest groups. this is where we get to the heart of the matter: it is a strategic mistake to entrust the setting of these standards to the commission, to bodies, agencies or even to single standardisation centres. this excessive centralisation is contrary to the common interest. it is then a solution that benefits no one or, in other words, far too few people.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, three mass killers, that is what hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis c are, now recognised as the three main crossborder threats to public health on the european continent. while hope is being rekindled by the latest wave of therapeutic innovations, such as a treatment to cure hepatitis c or a possible aids vaccine in the testing phase, the situation remains alarming: 2.5 million people in europe are infected with the aids virus, 14 million are infected with hepatitis c and a particularly worrying epidemic of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis is currently affecting western europe. in the face of these threats, it is clearly up to europe to act. only effective coordination at european level will be able to overcome these epidemics. each for himself is no longer an option. a coordinated response is all the more necessary as these three pathologies have a high comorbidity. their treatment is also associated with a strong social stigma which tends to isolate and make infected patients even more vulnerable. but despite this, these diseases had disappeared from european political priorities, leaving us with commitments that are particularly old. the hiv action plan ended in december 2016, the tb action plan was concluded in 2008 and there is no reference framework for viral hepatitis. as the european centre for disease prevention and control is sounding the alarm, i call on you, commissioner, and i know you are very sincere, to put on the table without delay the new european strategic framework you have just described, an integrated, cross-cutting framework covering both hiv, tuberculosis and hepatitis. i believe in your sincerity. we are here to support you, commissioner. this is really important for public health.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, the global approach to the fight against hiv, tuberculosis and viral hepatitis is now indispensable, especially in a context of the migration crisis which is increasing the incidence of these diseases. in addition, countries in eastern europe are particularly affected by multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, against which the most powerful antimicrobials are ineffective. however, in three quarters of the cases, it is not diagnosed, which is particularly worrying. however, in a third of cases, people with hiv die of tb, which is why we need to support the search for new vaccines. the same applies to hepatitis c, for which there is currently no vaccine. in addition, hepatitis c is often diagnosed by chance, which again underlines the need for thorough screening. finally, i support the idea of european surveillance programmes for these infections in order to better target them and treat the main outbreaks.
member of the commission. – madam president, colleagues, i have listened with great interest to the views expressed by this house and i am grateful for all of your valuable insights, especially as i see that we are all like-minded, speaking of possibilities to join our forces, not to separately addressing hiv or hepatitis c or tuberculosis. we need to understand that first of all it is social determinance – a lot of the same people, the same vulnerable groups, poverty and so on – and we need to provide comprehensive measures to protect, prevent, introduce, vaccinate, provide testing and so on and so on. we address those issues in our communication ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’. following this communication we will present next year our actions to address those issues. this september we will trigger joint action inviting all the member states to be onboard and improving the quality of prevention of hiv, tuberculosis, hepatitis and sexually transmitted infectious diseases. some of you mentioned problems with financial issues and budgetary issues and so on. the commission is working with member states to optimise the use of existing regulations and also asking, as i mentioned, the stem group to provide member states with tools to explain how to use their financial capacities to address those issues. you know we are supporting, through the health programme, the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) work on access to innovative medicines and sustainability. this can help member states to strengthen analytical capacity in areas such as pricing strategies and budgetary imports because it is very important – we know very well – in times of austerity there are a lot of problems around us. this house knows very well that we have only a health programme in our hands. it would be good to discuss the new multiannual financial framework and also draw attention to how to strengthen european union financial capacities to finance more measures because i depend on those programmes which were adopted in this house, and now it is very difficult to see how to move forward. speaking of pricing, the commission’s role is to facilitate cooperation between member states. this support can cover starter projects, maintenance of databases, collecting national prices. we are using european instruments but member states do not show a big appetite. it will be also good to encourage member states to cooperate more closely. i visited all 28 member states. i had discussions with all national parliaments, with governments, speaking about possibilities to draw attention to the situation on the ground, because we need to cooperate. the commission will continue to encourage member states to exchange information on access, pricing and cost containment policies, because it is absolutely crystal clear, we need to trigger our activities. as you mentioned, in portugal, luxembourg, the netherlands, they have a lot of good practices in areas of addressing issues about vulnerable people. i visited the abrigado centre in luxembourg. it was a very good job on the ground for assisting people in need to provide prophylactical measures and syringes, to guarantee confidentiality and fighting against stigma and discrimination. decriminalisation is also a big issue, speaking about the situation in different member states. we also need to understand that we need to combine health instruments with social instruments. we have no chance to solve only through instruments of health ministers. we need to have broad social programmes on the ground. we need to encourage local authorities and local communities also to do more and providing the local instruments and especially keeping eyes on the homeless people. it is very painful to see those homeless people living on the streets. we also need to see possibilities to extend our educational programmes. i look forward to working together with you towards achieving our shared aim of eliminating these diseases which damage the lives of so many people. as you mentioned, some people are not aware of the situation. yes, of course we need to have awareness campaigns, and i ask the ecdc and the ema also to do more to think how to strengthen our capacity for an awareness campaign, not only one day in one year; we need to continue our efforts on an everyday basis. enforcement, implementation and possibilities to join our forces: i see only one way in this direction.
the rapporteur. madam president, i thank you for introducing my speech by pointing out that we have been waiting for this report for a long time. europe has indeed been concerned with the question of product life in a sectoral way for a long time, but this is the first time that we have tried to address it in a transversal way and, i would say, in a sustainable perspective, by trying to place this question in its overall context. its overall context is at the heart of the new economy, it is at the heart of the european union's sustainable development, simply because it touches on the environmental issue, it touches on the economic and production issue, it touches on the consumption issue and the social issue. the fact that we are at the heart of this problem forces us to try to think about this issue in a consensual way. this means that we must try to think about it not in opposition to each other, not in opposition to the economy and ecology, or in opposition to social and consumer issues, but rather that we must solve this problem together. how can it be solved? simply by trying to get out of a logic of a society of waste, a society of disposable and a society of waste. resources are precious today, all resources, whether it is land, water or all the elements that make it possible to produce oil, energy. these resources must be conserved. so we are faced with the resource challenge. then there's the climate issue, with our products travelling thousands of kilometres to get to our shops and then into our homes. there is also the social question. the social issue is the relocation of jobs in europe, the fact that we are going to produce at lower cost thousands and thousands of kilometres away and that we are destroying our industry. the social issue is that when we throw away, replace and no longer repair the products we buy, we cause the loss of know-how, of craftsmanship, the loss also of trades of "repairability" and service. tens of thousands of jobs have disappeared on the european continent. the social issue is also that we cannot turn a blind eye to the conditions under which these products are produced at lower cost in the countries of the south, where the exploitation of human beings is absolutely scandalous. finally, there is the economic question, because by producing at lower cost products which, in the end, are no longer of quality, for which the only criterion is price, we are reducing to nothing the capacity of our european industry to be among the best in the world, if not the best, with quality products that have been recognized for decades now. logic would have us come together to take into account the new economy, the economy of functionality, the economy of use, the economy that makes consumers - especially the poorest - no longer want to be forced to constantly change the products they buy and that break down as soon as the legal guarantees stop. so we have to take this new economy into account. we also need to redevelop the 'reparability' of all products on the market. we need to make sure that the batteries are not glued together anymore, but screwed together so that you don't have to throw away a phone when the battery dies. we must ensure that consumers are informed of the service life of products and our ability to repair them. that is the whole point of my report, madam president, commissioner. that is what we expect from the european union: that it addresses this fundamental issue.
in writing. today, as you can see, atypical jobs are on the rise: involuntary parttime jobs, zero-hour contracts, uberization, and sometimes unpaid work! the european union is sacrificing traditional jobs, thus destroying your social rights and weakening your social security and pension systems. what do you mean? difficulty in getting reimbursement for glasses, dental work, hearing aids, etc. what about tomorrow? retirement uncertain or too weak to live a decent life. poor france, yesterday at the forefront of social rights, today so feverish. the report voted on in strasbourg on tuesday 4 july lists the risks associated with this destruction: it is cynical irony to see a failure, after having been the instigator of it... unfortunately, the proposals are just wish lists, a litany of wishes for a better world, with no concrete measures. we regret that there is no analysis of the causes, such as the policies of economic liberalisation, which would have been a serious line of work. the only solution proposed? state investment, impossible since the commission condemns national investment in its country-specific recommendations!
mr president, on saturday 1 july, a tribute was paid to the former german chancellor helmut kohl in the european parliament in strasbourg. i think this tribute is problematic for two reasons. first, because helmut kohl was above all in the service of germany. he reunited his country and created the euro on the model of the mark. if the european union is today dominated by germany, it is to him that it owes that domination. you will understand that as a frenchman, i do not welcome it. on the other hand, the tribute was also problematic because it was paid not by meps but by personalities, most of whom were not even elected, who came to occupy the benches of the meps. the union had already invented democracy without the people, and on 1 july it invented parliament without its members.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, malta has held the presidency of the european union for the past six months. his record is very disappointing. malta has indeed succeeded in getting the end of roaming charges adopted. this measure means that telephone calls from another eu member state are no longer subject to a surcharge. but malta failed on two major issues. first, on controlling immigration, which was his priority. the training of 130 officers of the libyan coastguard has been successful, but little is seen of its results. the migration flood has not stopped; on the contrary, it is picking up steam in italy, where 6,000 migrants are currently arriving every day. malta has also failed to improve its anti-money laundering policy, but this is not surprising, as 13 european media have just proved that malta is a tax haven comparable to panama. so it was not necessary to wait for an arsonist to put out the bleaching fire. malta has, after all, been the revealer of what the european union is: a plutocratic organisation serving businessmen and not the people. the insults mr juncker has just addressed to members of this parliament fully support me in this analysis.
the european parliament has played its part in this, following the initiatives it had taken in the banking sector and on the initiative of sergio cofferati. what is it? this is to make it possible to check where companies make profits and, accordingly, where they have to pay their taxes. too often, tax optimisation or tax avoidance is backed up by a shortfall in member states' budgets and, therefore, a lack of funds for financing policies, whether in the field of education, health or culture, because that is what it is all about at the end of the day. through these tax optimisation mechanisms, which are hidden in aggregated transactions, multinationals have gone from being taxed at 35% in 1995 to 22.8% in 2015. there is something unacceptable about this for citizens who are increasingly suffering the effects of the crisis. the socialist group and our co-rapporteurs wanted to go further than the commission's proposal, and i thank the commission for the kindness with which it has followed the work of this parliament. we have to go further because what we've got for banks, there's no reason why we can't get it for multinationals. we will have a meeting and we are waiting for initiatives from the commission to go beyond the present proposal. there is also the famous question of aggregated data for third countries. mr rosati invokes global competitiveness and the elements of beps, but the role of the european union in this area - the work we have undertaken in the pana or taxe committees - is to go beyond the beps agreement and allow companies to develop investment strategies through this safeguard clause, but behind this safeguard clause there is no white-wash for eternal secrecy and this investment strategy is part of the tax rescript beyond which there must be full transparency on the profits of companies, regardless of the state in which they are made. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr theurer, in the name of competitiveness, i think that the excellence for european companies is to have the opportunity to say what they do outside the european union, whether in developing countries or elsewhere. this is excellence, and this is how the european union will increase its real competitiveness and be able to lead the fight against tax evasion and tax optimisation. that's our mission. this is what we have committed to with commissioner dombrovskis and commissioner moscovici and what we must pursue. this is the sense of the conclusions of the report which you authored in the taxe committee.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, mr vice-president, tax transparency is a priority for states, because the abusive optimisation schemes of large groups to avoid corporation tax cause serious damage to our public finances. we should all be grateful to the whistleblowers who have helped to expose these tax scandals to the public, such as the european tax dumping practiced by luxembourg under the juncker government. these unfair practices must be punished and the affected states compensated financially. the commission's initiative to make it compulsory for large groups to publish their sensitive financial information, broken down country by country, is a good thing. however, in the global economic war, this european transparency poses a real problem of information asymmetry for our companies vis-à-vis their international competitors. an american or chinese company that has no branch or subsidiary in europe but exports to or wishes to establish itself in the european union will have a great deal of information on the economic activity of its competitors, country by country. it is therefore imperative that transparency and confidentiality of sensitive economic information be combined in this country-by-country reporting measure. in these circumstances, we believe that the disclosure of this information should be limited exclusively to the tax administrations of the member states in order to avoid any risk of extra-european economic espionage. the principle of precaution will help to achieve the tax objectives of the member states, but will also protect the interests of our major european groups from global competition.
madam president, commissioner, there are realities which should not be hidden in a transparent assembly such as ours. it is unbearable to hear the right and now the far right, with a large part of the liberals, tell us that they defend transparency in europe, tax transparency, that they defend smes and small businesses on a daily basis and, at the same time, to see the same ones who are making sure to distort competition in the european union between the large multinationals, which it has been shown that, sometimes, they pay less than 1% of taxes on the profits they make. i am talking about less than 1% of taxes, when smes, craftsmen and the professions are sometimes obliged to pay up to 35%. we must expose this iniquity. there are parliamentarians in this house who are there to defend the interests of the big multinationals and not those of the european economy. 85% of jobs in europe are created by smes. we need tax equality. we must put an end to the fact that large companies have been exempted from participating in the balance of society. it is the social link that is in danger: these are hospitals that cannot be financed, these are common structures that cannot be financed because the multinationals do not pay taxes. that has to change. it is necessary to ensure that transparency is implemented within the european union.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our mandate since 2014 has been marred by a long list of scandals involving tax avoidance, tax evasion and tax fraud. in short, all these elements show that there is an urgent need for action and that we need strong and concrete action in the fight against tax evasion. we have taken a stand regularly, thanks to the work of the taxe 1, taxe 2 and pana committees, to say that we need concrete measures, including this country-by-country declaration, and all this in a beautiful unanimity with our liberal and right-wing colleagues. and now that we have a concrete proposal on the table, perhaps they are afraid of turning words into deeds, and are eager to establish passwords, discretionary conditions to enable multinationals to escape their obligations. this is the so-called exemption, without any time limit and with totally opaque criteria. i hope that tomorrow, when we vote, we will be firm enough to limit these pass-rights in practice and ensure that a real measure of tax transparency is adopted for the benefit of the citizens, because, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget who elected us and who we represent in this house.
madam president, my point of order is based on rule 3 (1), rule 4 (4) and rule 6 of our rules of procedure. as you know, madam president, there were parliamentary elections in france, and a number of our colleagues were elected to the french parliament. i commend them on that. they belong to various political shades. these colleagues are currently sitting in the french parliament. as a result, their seats are vacant, but the french authorities refuse to disclose the names of their successors, on the grounds that actions have been brought by various citizens against their election. i think that this procedure is unfair, because these colleagues are already sitting in the french parliament, whatever the outcome of the action against them. it seems to me, therefore, that the parallelism of the forms should lead the french authorities to communicate to you the names of their successors so that they can sit in the same way in the european parliament, pending the outcome of these appeals. that is why, on the basis of rule 4 of our rules of procedure, which provides that the president may ask the national authorities to name the successors to the vacant seats, i think that this should be done by our president, with the support, i hope, of the chairman and the members of the committee on legal affairs, which is responsible for the verification of credentials.
mr president, mr vice-president, you have two years left on this commission of the last chance. so listen to what the socialist group has to say. i do not know whether our resolution will be adopted. i hope so, but whatever the outcome, the messages we are sending you today in this debate are the essential roadmap. if we listen only to the conservatives, you will not regain the confidence of the french people, because you will not fight as you should, by engaging the commission, with all the european institutions behind your power of initiative, to fight against inequalities within the member states and between the member states. you will not restore the reality of democracy, which means that economic and monetary union cannot develop on the basis of a budget which concerns only the conciliations between governments. we also need - as my colleague kathleen van brempt has said - to use the energy, the momentum, the impetus and the engine that the outcome of the paris conference represents to change, to change and to transform the economic model of the euro area and of the european union. this is what will enable us to reconcile citizens with europe, with the european commission and its work programme. you're the one who's got the cards.
madam president, commissioner, i listened carefully to your speech. in your introduction you mention, among other things, your desire to work for european smes. but this parliament has been asking you for almost two years now for a simple measure, for the benefit of european smes. this measure is the extension of geographical indications for non-agricultural products. it is the guarantee of maintaining employment in fragile territories, of maintaining know-how, and it is the guarantee of better protecting consumers, with real traceability on the handicrafts produced in our countryside, all over europe. it is not a local concern. we have seen companies from spain, the uk and the czech republic ask us for this protection. it is a simple measure that shows that the european union can act for the benefit of european citizens and smes. it is almost two years since this parliament asked you for a legislative proposal to guarantee this protection. i therefore ask you to put this proposal on the table as soon as possible.
as i take my seat in this chamber, i would like to remind you that we are in the midst of a topical debate and that, according to the rules of procedure, there is no question of intervention or a blue card. i would like to remind a number of colleagues who have asked me for blue cards.
madam president, it is a matter of great satisfaction that the european institutions, including the commission, are finally responding to the wishes of our fellow citizens to devote a significant effort to security and defence. contrary to what some colleagues say, all opinion polls over the last ten years show that in all countries, including the most eurosceptic ones, the main areas of concern for our citizens, the areas where they expect the european union to do better and to do more, are security, defence and diplomacy. thank you, madam high representative, for your persistence. the announcements that have been made and the efforts that are being made are very welcome. i would simply like to draw attention to two aspects, one for the commission and the other for the council. for the commission, of course, it is important to ensure competitiveness and avoid duplication. the economic dimension of the defence effort is something of paramount importance, but we are not talking about a market like any other. competitiveness is not the measure of all things. we talk about strategy, we talk about strategic autonomy, we talk about critical capacity and we talk about operations. so we need to have equipment that is competitive, but we need to have equipment that is effective in protecting our forces and protecting our fellow citizens. then, to the council, and also to the commission, i can see that the announcements are very much focused on the capacity aspect. this is very commendable, useful and important. i would, however, like to keep in mind the operational aspect. it is very important to know that, as you have said, madam high representative, many of our forces are serving under the european flag in missions that need help, including financial help, and i would be very grateful if you could push the member states to finally reform the athena mechanism to better share the burden and express true european solidarity.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what a missed opportunity! the europe of security and defence would make sense if we put our common interests at the service of the fight against terrorism, security and development. i take the g5 sahel meeting on 2 july as an example: a genuine security plan, without the development component, is estimated at 500 million. europe commits 50 million and no timetable; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the acp countries. this means more smuggling of migrants for europe, linked to big crime and the drug route. the europe of defence is a deception. for some - the baltic states and poland - it is a matter of fighting russia, which is a partner for peace and the fight against terrorism. for others, it is about paying for servitude to nato and the us, as it was for the warsaw pact. for others, it is the rationalisation on the shelf to destroy our entire european industrial base or rather what little we have left of it. europe has only one word, the abandonment of national sovereignty for servitude, with incompetence and inefficiency on top.
i remind the audience that they are not allowed to speak either. mr bütikofer, we will do what is necessary to listen to this speech again, however painful it may be.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the commission statement on the reflection paper on the future of the eu's finances by 2025 (2017/2742 ((rsp)).
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the quality of the reflection paper you have produced and i would like to welcome your willingness to establish a serious, frank and open dialogue with parliament. we'll meet you there to discuss it. in this dialogue, we will not be sterile opponents or mere stimuli, but partners in building together the project of financing the future of the european union. article 25 of the financial framework provided that the commission would present its draft of the future financial framework before 1 january 2018. i don't want to play the procedure at the expense of politics. however, i must warn you about the credibility of our institutions. how can we ask our fellow citizens to obey the law if we ourselves are free from it? at the very least, the approval of the co-legislators is required. in any event, it is time to start work on the financial guidelines for europe after 2020. it is a very strange exercise to prepare the future financing of the union without defining its strategy, ambition or priorities. everyone expected the commission to exercise its power of initiative and to make clear its proposal for the union's future path. unfortunately no, we are faced with five alternative scenarios. i prefer to be honest, parliament will not be working on five scenarios, but on its vision and priorities for the union. i share your view, commissioner, that the current financial framework is under-enlarged. i share your concern about the trend of reducing the expenditure ceilings since 1993. i share your criticism of rebates and the current system of budget revenue for the union, dominated by the contribution of the member states, which inevitably leads to the mortifying logic of the fair return. i also share your democratic demands for the duration, the unity of the budget and the sincerity of the next financial framework. finally, i would like to agree with you on most of the objectives you have mentioned, such as economic strength, sustainability, solidarity and security. however, as i read you, i see the impossible equation of wanting to do more with less returning. investment, migration and youth have been new programmes in the current financial framework, with all the funding difficulties we have encountered and the sacrifices we have had to make on key programmes such as research. you add to that and we could agree new commitments linked to security and defence issues. in no case may such expenditure be made at the expense of solidarity programmes such as cohesion, youth, social or development aid. to new expenses, new income! our future must be based on three pillars: a consolidated solidarity for our citizens and our territories; an economic power oriented towards sustainable development, which will give us energy and food autonomy; a security policy to ensure peace. finally, commissioner, we would be inclined to reject the current budgetary under-stimulation and more motivated than ever to demand new own resources for the european union, as you propose. i wish you and us every success in pursuing together an ambition worthy of the name for the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you both for the document you have provided us and for your scenario-based approach, but also for the remarks you have just made about the new tasks and the new resources. we are talking about a lot of resources. i would like to draw your attention to the missions, as has just been done, and in this regard, to the issue of the common agricultural policy. we will certainly have to reorient the cap, look at the world of life differently, link agriculture to food, human health and the protection of our environment. but there is one crucial issue to which i would like to draw your attention. this is the issue of food security. indeed, we can no longer think about our policies within the european union by looking at each other and remaining inward. we must look at what is being done elsewhere, in other continental countries: at a time when all the other continental countries are increasing their budget for agricultural and food policy, it would be totally inconsistent for us to reduce it at union level. the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the eu's agri-food strategy. we must draw inspiration from these policies over the next 20 years.
mr president, commissioner, while the european union is faced with new strategic areas, such as immigration, internal security, defence, to name but a few, it must at the same time ensure its competences in the fields of cohesion, the common agricultural policy, economic development, humanitarian intervention, etc. today she is facing her destiny. will she be able, as apollinaire says, to "light the stars"? article 311 of the tfeu is clear: the union shall provide itself with the means necessary to attain its objectives and carry out its policies. brexit cannot be used as an excuse, and we must find new resources. the term 'new european taxes' does not necessarily mean 'burden on european citizens'. the term 'new community tax' does not mean 'loss of sovereignty for the states'. the financial transaction tax, the co2 tax and the taxation of multinationals are among the avenues we need to explore to bring in real own resources to meet new challenges and, ultimately, to 'light the stars'.
mr president, commissioner, the member states can no longer demand more and more from the union while reducing its budgetary capacity. the strategy of stripping paul to clothe peter only lasted too long. it is our responsibility in the european parliament to speak out and to be determined to make the council accept that the union deserves the means to achieve its ambitions. after commissioner oettinger's speech, we understood that the commission was rather on our side and we can only welcome that. it is essential to remember that any new policy must be supported by new funding. a defence fund is certainly necessary, but it cannot be financed at the expense of existing policies, particularly solidarity policies. the need for fresh money is obvious. the european union cannot afford to be disappointed any further as its future is being shaped. a european budget cannot be the sum of guarantee funds and other financial arrangements. it must be legible and no longer be subject to national contributions alone, or almost, but must draw on genuine own resources.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, to link saudi arabia to the protection of women's rights is like appointing a pyromaniac as fire chief. i quote the chairman of the ngo united nations watch, who describes with humour and not without finesse the situation in which the un commission on the status of women finds itself today. on 21 april, 13 new members were elected to the commission, which is responsible for defending the dignity of women throughout the world. saudi arabia is therefore one of these thirteen countries. how can you not believe a hoax? how can we imagine that this country, which had been awarded the title of the most misogynistic country in the world by several ngos, could become a member of a committee for the protection of women? how can a country that forbids women from driving, from going out alone, that hides them under the niqab and even puts them to the stones, be considered a defender of women's dignity? how can we understand this, if not as an affront to women all over the world, as the victory of the money of the petro-monarchies over any moral or political considerations? of the 54 voters, 47 seem to have decided that yes, saudi arabia is capable of embodying and promoting women's freedom. the women of this country will appreciate it. as a woman, i am protesting against this appointment and as a member of the european parliament, i denounce the complicity of the five eu states that voted 'yes' to saudi arabia's accession. finally, i would like to share with you an anecdote that was picked up in the independent newspaper. in march 2017, saudi authorities organized the first meeting on women's rights, marking the first step in the process. imagine that at this meeting, the women were seated separately, in a separate room, non-mixing requires, and that they are not even in the photos. in 2015, saudi arabia was elected to the human rights commission and executed 153 people, compared to 26 in 2010. let's hope it doesn't make waking up any harder.
mr president, saudi arabia has just been elected to sit on the un commission on the status of women. the election was by secret ballot. of the 54 countries voting, 47 voted in favour, including, unfortunately, 5 member states of the european union. france says it voted against. let's hope that's true, because this election is a sham. who would believe that saudi arabia would stand up for women's rights? saudi arabia is that medieval country that beheads adulterers with swords in the street, that denies women the right to drive and locks them in burqas. this is not the model of society i want for france. the un has failed, the european union is wandering in a deliberate confusion between women's rights and ethnic minority rights and lgbti, but the national front is resisting. radical islamism will not pass!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the complicity of five member states of the european union, saudi arabia will therefore be a member of the united nations commission on the status of women next year. in these circumstances, why not appoint bernard madoff as head of the imf or award the north korean leader the world press freedom prize? for those who have short memories - and there are many - i remind you that the saudi government advocates the practice of an ultra-rigorous islam, which includes forced marriage, female genital mutilation and the stoning of women guilty of adultery. these daily violations of women's rights should, however, be a cause for concern. unfortunately, no. some, out of interest or cowardice, have preferred to limit themselves to a few lyrical escapades in this european theatre, where they now have only an extra role. so before we ask the little european girls to play with cars, let us first ensure that women are no longer considered inferior to men in any of the countries that are members of this committee.
in writing. this report could have been entitled 'depriving the member states of the last remaining royal power'. i am surprised at the european union's ability to define a diplomatic role for itself. in the united nations, there is the word nation, and, despite all its promethean efforts, the union is not and never will be a nation. this is all the more regrettable as the report mentions fundamental issues, such as the fight against the destruction and trafficking of cultural property. but the union prefers to gloss over the importance of strengthening intercultural dialogue. what about collective rights? the rights of peoples and nations to preserve and enhance their heritage, history, language and cultural traditions, and to fight against all forms of cultural imperialism. it is for the recognition of these rights that we should work, at a time when the national cultures of the member states are threatened with disappearance by globalist homogenization, when we are all called upon to eat the same food, to listen to the same music, to merge our values in a so-called abstract and above-ground common foundation. parliament claims to be defending culture? it must begin by preserving what is its foundation, namely the identity of the peoples of europe.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these days of tribute to simone veil, what lessons can we draw from her career and experience for the debate we are holding today? simone veil was a fighter for europe, because she had survived the worst that europe could produce, but she never reduced europe to a commemoration. she has always considered europe to be a project of civilization for every woman, for every man, for us europeans and for the rest of the world. simone veil, would she be satisfied today with a european project which would be a project for the unhindered movement of goods, services and investments, which would put our legislation, our environmental and social regulations and our democratic sovereignty within the reach of the old world multinational firms, oil, nuclear and endocrine disruptors? what would simone veil say about the walls, the barbed wire and the camps that hold people who are also survivors? today, europe stands alone against trump, putin, erdoğan and xi jinping, but it alone can carry forward a project of international cooperation, a project of solidarity and a project of protection of common goods. to do that, it has to change its footing and not be at the g20 promoting free trade agreements that are producing all the chaos in the world and that are fuelling a development model that is twice the size of the planet, twice the size of predation and twice the size of pollution. if there is one element that europe needs to bring to the g20, it is the climate issue, and to bring this issue, it is not enough to say that we will respect the paris agreement: europe is not on the paris agreement's trajectory in terms of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. so let's go with a much stronger ambition. let's go ahead and say that the g20 promise to end public subsidies for fossil fuels must be implemented immediately. that is your responsibility, that is our responsibility, even if we want to be sincere and faithful to the tribute paid to simone veil.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, the world is living on a volcano that can erupt at any moment. the eruption may be due to the war in syria, the clash between shiites and sunnis in the gulf, especially in yemen, or the aggressiveness of north korea, all of which are symptoms of a deeply unstable world. the eruption can also be economic and social, if we do not take care to strengthen ourselves in the face of globalisation, in particular by pursuing financial regulation, fighting against dumping or working for fairer taxation. terrorism, the migration challenge, the climate challenge, the democratic challenge, the economic challenge -- it is high time that the european union finally took a fresh look at the african continent and helped it to develop and to achieve peace. we have to take the leadership position that america has abandoned, because donald trump is a figurehead, but his gestures do not fool anyone. the g20 leaders know that in the game of musical chairs, the fastest wins. if it is not europe, it will be china or russia that will win, and we will sit back and do nothing. the european union has always been about sharing and spreading its values and ideals. on this day of remembrance in paris, in honour of simone veil, the first president of this parliament, let us be inspired by her exceptional life example. the g20 must be an opportunity for european leaders to show that they have a vision, not only for our continent, but also for the rest of the world.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president-in-office, multilateralism is in the dna of the european union. the g20 will be held in the heart of europe at a time when both brexit and the trump administration deny the value of multilateralism. in the end, mr vice-president, for you, for the european union and for each of the heads of state or government who will be participating in this g20, there is a double task. in the g20 itself, we must ensure that what the left arm says is not ignored by the right arm. we cannot have played such an exemplary role in the conclusion of the paris agreement at cop 21 and leave finance in the basel area that ignores the objectives of financing the ecological transition. to do this, the work of the task force on climate-related financial disclosure (tcfd) must be supported, while the trump administration wants to ignore all the conclusions reached under mr bloomberg's leadership. you must, on behalf of the commission, tell the member states how much support this think tank needs and how important it is that its conclusions become the g20 road map. for the european union, this means that in each of the instances, first in basel, but also within the international accounting standards board (iasb), you must defend, and make concrete in the form of market regulation, these requirements of a change in the investment climate in favour of a transition to the financing of long-term investments, renewable energies at the expense of fossil fuel economies, which continue to irrigate too many criteria of excellence of the european economy. the oecd's proposal for a list containing only trinidad and tobago cannot be the european union's road map. we count on each of the european actors in this g20 to have a strong voice. the fight against tax havens must remain a priority.
madam president, mr prime minister, if i may believe the interview you recently gave to mr vitkin, you are not as hostile to russia as baltic politicians often are. i understand the concerns of your countries about preserving your respective identities, but the new cold war into which the european union is dragging us seriously harms the interests of european nations, including yours. on 22 june the union again extended its sanctions against russia. these measures, initially taken under pressure from the americans, have set in motion a spiral of sanctions and counter-sanctions, of which our farmers are the first victims. after the franco-german reconciliation, our continent now needs a polish-russian reconciliation, beyond the legitimate resentments inherited from the communist period. yes, it is time to focus on the great challenges posed by the flood of migration and islamist terrorism. it is in this spirit that we want to build the europe of tomorrow and it is this that has led me to take part in two delegations of our group. two weeks ago we were in moscow and last week in warsaw for the europe of nations and freedoms conference.
in writing. you have made the slogan 'unity through balance' the guiding principle of your presidency. in these times when the union is facing several major challenges, unity is more than ever a necessity. but to address the refugee crisis, to revive the economy, to respond to the climate emergency, unity needs a renewed solidarity in the face of national egos. the defence of european values must also be at the heart of your action. hungary and poland continue to defy the rule of law and violate our fundamental values. what will your presidency say? do you support parliament's call for article 7.1 to be activated? we will lose all credibility for our citizens if we are unable to protect them. finally, i would like to ask you about a subject which will directly impact the lives of millions of workers and more than 500 000 european companies. this is the mobility package. what is your ambition on this file? will you seek to overcome certain divisions in order to reach a common position in the council? the integration of the internal market into the road sector has contributed to the deterioration of working conditions. do you intend to balance this sector by strengthening the social dimension of road transport?
madam president, i will be very brief. i am afraid i was misunderstood yesterday when i referred to the rules of procedure based on articles 3 and 4 in relation to the fact that the french authorities did not notify the names of the successors of our colleagues who were elected to the national assembly. i was told that we would wait for the notification from the french authorities, which is quite natural and i respect the competence of the national authorities. that is of course entirely their responsibility. the problem is that the french authorities refuse to notify on the grounds that some of our elected colleagues are being sued. this does not seem to me to be the case for mr mélenchon, for example, who, according to public rumour, has resigned. therefore, madam president, what i am asking is that, pursuant to rule 4 (6) of parliament's rules of procedure, our president, as the rules allow him, and even require him, asks the french authorities to make this notification as a matter of urgency.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by kati piri, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission report on turkey (2016/2308 (ini)) (a8-0234/2017).
i grant you that, madam, and we shall try to restore... no, mr fleckenstein, everyone will calm down, and we shall resume the normal course of our debate. everyone respects the time of speech and so everything will be fine.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think there is a certain consensus. i think we all want one thing: to see that turkey, this great nation, can emerge from its slump. nevertheless, here there is a double, even a triple language. i have heard mr lambsdorff and mrs von storch. let me say, mr lambsdorff, that mr juncker yesterday weakened our institution. i think that is not very good for the democratic spirit of the european parliament. secondly, mrs von storch, the accession agreement with turkey is being frozen, but the customs union is still being maintained in my committee, the committee on international trade. it's a double entendre. that is to say, politically we are opposed to turkey's presence in the european union, but economically we are continuing to set up this customs union. where do we want to go? today, the epp group - because it is the key group - wants turkey to remain a member of the european union. i think it would be a pity if we were to be on the same page, because i think that turkey has nothing european about it and that it represents a real danger, not only to our union of civilizations but also to the very cohesion of the european parliament. therefore, until the epp group has understood that we must get out of this logic with turkey, we will not move forward. today, unfortunately, i believe that the epp group will continue this double language which will lead us to the abyss, that is to say, to the end of our european structure.
mr president, it is 30 years since turkey applied to join the european union and 12 years since the accession process began. when will the european union stop this charade which dishonors europe as much as it humiliates the turkish people? is it necessary to insist again and again that turkey cannot claim to be european because of its geography, culture, religion, language and history? it is not an insult to say so, it is a fact that brussels refuses to accept. by wanting to turn hagia sophia into a mosque, turkish president erdoğan is setting himself up as the heir to the ottoman empire, whose military conquests have seriously endangered our european and christian civilization. remember lepanto and vienna. at a time when mr erdoğan's provocations and meetings, even in this city of strasbourg, are provoking only mild protests from the european union, at a time when christian communities are being expropriated in turkey, at a time when political parties affiliated to the turkish government are emerging in the netherlands, bulgaria, germany, austria and even france, have the courage to put an end to these absurd negotiations once and for all.
mr president, less than a year after the european commission proposed the creation of the european fund for sustainable development (efsd), this new instrument will come into force. i am pleased that we were able to reach a compromise in such a short time with the commission and the council on this new instrument, the main objective of which is to help the private sector in african and eastern neighbourhood countries by supporting employment, growth and stability, which i am confident will help to tackle the root causes of irregular migration. the text we are voting on tomorrow is a good text. the role of the european parliament has been strengthened, which will allow for better control of the fund. the 'development' dimension has also been strengthened, but in a smart way, to make the instrument flexible and adapted to the specificities of the private sector. finally, our european financial institutions will participate in the edf, and community preference will be given in accordance with the principle of fair treatment. through this instrument, we hope to mobilise up to 44 billion in investments. the challenges for the development of africa and the eastern neighbourhood are considerable, and the private sector has an important role to play. it is therefore crucial that the sector is mobilised and that the member states support and accompany the edf, in order to make it an instrument for sustainable development.
mr president, i welcome the agreement on the european development fund and i congratulate our rapporteurs on it. the fund aims to support the long-term economic and social development of african countries and the eastern neighbourhood in order to combat the causes of the migration crisis that we have been experiencing for more than two years, in particular illegal economic emigration. if this new fund is to be added to the galaxy of instruments surrounding the european budget, i hope that the commission, under the control of parliament, will be able to ensure its coherence, transparency and efficiency and will be able to ensure that the partner financial institutions faithfully serve our rules and our policy objectives, especially in the fight against tax havens. for the fund to be successful, it is therefore essential that it is part of a clear political vision and strategy. i am counting heavily on the high representative, mrs mogherini, and commissioners hahn and mimica to formulate this vision and to carry out this strategy. it is not enough to have an additional instrument: the time has come to express ambition and to build a discourse that speaks to european citizens, citizens who want a europe that protects them.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not believe that the european union is in a position to act for sustainability, given that it advocates an ultra-liberal model whose primary characteristic is precariousness, that is to say the opposite of sustainability, precariousness both social and environmental. instead, i believe in the ability of our nations to act for the sustainability of the world and for their own sustainability. this is particularly true of the harmonious development of the planet, which alone will be able to curb the immense movements of population from south to north, the beginnings of which we are only just beginning to see. i would like to speak to you about the wonderful project of mr jean-louis borloo for the electrification of the african continent. energy is obviously one of the first human rights, which is a condition for access to so many other human rights, be it water, health or employment. energy is an absolutely powerful territorial factor of equilibrium. mr borloo, of course, is not my political relative, but whatever. i have discussed this project with him, he has explained it to me and i would like to contribute here. our nations - france in the lead - must mobilize. the electrification of africa will of course help the continent and its people, but it will also benefit us immensely, by curbing already senseless migration flows and accelerating our own rate of economic growth. three billion euros a year for ten years would be enough. at the level of our nations, it is not much, especially if they are united in healthy cooperation, far from the cold and blind mechanisms of the european union. it is largely feasible: we must mobilise all our forces.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that this debate is absurd. first, for legal reasons. in the treaties, it is not the commission, the council or the european parliament that decide on the seats of the institutions: it is the states. but none of them are asking for change, and if we were really to reopen the discussions, we would have to talk about the location of all the institutions and turn everything upside down: the seat of the european central bank, the commission, the council, everything. secondly, i hear some proposing to trade the european medicines agency or the european banking authority, or even both, for parliament. what are we, carpet salesmen? you want to trade? you forget subsidiarity and france's sovereign choice to present another city. some people talk about saving money. i'll give you a hint: the hémicycle in brussels is falling into ruin; the cost of the work would be €500 million over 15 years. it would be an outrage to spend that much money when we can host the parliament here in strasbourg and we have just inaugurated the václav havel building with new offices. finally, the strasbourg seat is not limited to legal or financial matters. by attacking strasbourg on the very week when we are paying tribute to helmut kohl and simone veil, you are attacking a symbol, a symbol of peace and democracy. by proposing this exchange, you are forgetting the very meaning of the european project. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr fox, i would like to tell you that we have the single seat in strasbourg. if you propose to strengthen this single seat in strasbourg, which is already in the treaties, i am in full support of it, and france is ready to welcome a single workplace in strasbourg. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, with all due respect, you are here to organise the debate. you are not here to comment on what this or that speaker, member of this parliament, can say. mr president, if you wish to speak, please give up your seat and come to the gallery. we'd be happy to hear your opinion on the matter. you don't have to take sides in this debate, you have to respect the fairness between the different speakers, whether they are for or against. i think that this approach is totally inappropriate, with the greatest of respect, mr president.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, even though we have just inaugurated the new václav havel building here, why should we go back to questioning our presence in strasbourg? this discussion, like all the others before it, is not timely. article 341 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the seat of the institutions of the union is to be determined by common agreement between the member states and, even if it were up to us to decide, the debate would still be inappropriate. however, since it is open, i will allow myself to respond to the practical arguments put forward by the proponents of a single seat in brussels. only the practice of parliamentary work has standardized the frequency of our presence in brussels. the treaties, on the other hand, state that parliament's official seat is in strasbourg. to revise them to remove this status from strasbourg is to open the way to multiple questioning and bargaining on the whole of the european institutions and agencies. in addition, buildings in brussels could require renovation estimated at €300 million or even reconstruction, which would be even more onerous for the taxpayer. as for the proposal to allocate the seat of the european medicines agency to strasbourg, let me point out that strasbourg has already been rejected by the french government in favour of the city of lille. but, moreover, the lack of opportunity for debate is not only practical, it is primarily due to the importance of our presence in these places. being in strasbourg is not a fantasy. this place has a history, a meaning, and a future. there is no doubt that strasbourg is the very embodiment of part of the history of european integration, or even its essence. the city is precisely the symbol of the brotherhood of peoples which the union is seeking and cementing every day a little more. it is a manifestation of the benefits of peace, of franco-german reconciliation. it was in strasbourg that simone veil presided over the first european parliament elected by universal suffrage. it was in strasbourg that helmut kohl received the tribute he was due last saturday. i hear the case brought by some colleagues, but to turn our backs on this legacy would be a grave mistake, especially since the single seat that would end transhumance might as well be in strasbourg. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr liese, i do not think that the debate we are having today is about the location of the european medicines agency, since we are very far from it anyway. the debate today is whether we are still sitting here, voting our directives and regulations here in the european parliament. the european medicines agency is not the subject, and mixing up - as we say in france - towels and towels makes no sense. we are talking about a noble task, the task of the european parliament and the task we carry out as members of the european parliament.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it may be unacceptable for you that french-speaking members of parliament are speaking in this house, but can you explain to me why, as you are leaving the european union in less than two years' time, when you agree among yourselves, you are taking a stand on the future of europe and the future of the european parliament in strasbourg? in the name of what are you meddling in this debate?
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, you have spoken about the cost of the european parliament here in strasbourg, and you have spoken about the bad governance of the european union linked to the strasbourg parliament. i would therefore like to know how you think we can justify to the european citizens the need to start work in the european parliament in brussels. moreover, how do you justify the misuse of public money and the mismanagement of buildings in brussels?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the only parliamentarian from strasbourg, although i have other alsatian colleagues, i would first like to thank the commissioner and the council, who did not take a position, and the colleagues who took a position in favour of strasbourg. the single seat is not a problem, strasbourg is ready to welcome it. but what is strasbourg? more than a city, a crossroads of germans, celts and romans since the fifth century. it is the seat of all the kingdoms and powers that have made europe of peoples and civilizations: the carolingians, the capetians, the holy empire of the hohenstaufen and the habsburgs, all in the line of saint odile and the aldaric. it is the site of all the conflicts and disputes between east and west for the last 1500 years, the bone of contention in fratricidal struggles and world wars, with this banner of the virgin of strasbourg, arms outstretched between east and west, calling for this permanent reconciliation. this territory is the axis of balance of peoples and nations, the basis of europe. if you have not understood this - which i am afraid - you have not understood anything in strasbourg. but you have also failed to understand that europe cannot be under unipolar domination. the cabal against the siege of strasbourg is pragmatic. it is fundamentally ideological. your arguments do not stand up to the facts: would strasbourg be too expensive? the paul-henri spaak building cost €1.8 billion and renovation would cost €300-500 million. let's have the one-stop shop in strasbourg. is strasbourg too far away from the other institutions? what about a multipolar europe? ladies and gentlemen, if you are leaving strasbourg, it is because strasbourg is outside the sphere of influence of the pressure groups. the ones who want to abandon him? lobbies working against europe. to abandon strasbourg is above all to abandon the strasbourg of a true europe, of which you are, for some, the opponents. it is to abandon this europe of history, identity and memory. strasbourg is also far from nato. she has eurocorps. strasbourg is the europe of balance. do not lose your balance, or europe will not be built. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. in the europe that i personally see as european, but a particular european i have always been for the europe of states, the europe of nations , i think that there is indeed a place for a council and for a commission reduced to a council secretariat, and that the place of this new europe could be welcomed in strasbourg. i recognize that we have some efforts to make in the transport sector, but they will be made. i admit that brussels has an advantage in this respect, but that is not the reason in terms of savings, because it is quite possible - i say this - to put all the institutions in strasbourg if we want to save money.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few days ago we were receiving in this house the remains of helmut kohl, that great european, pillar of the european construction. and now, with a cruel irony, we hear the arguments of those who want to put an end to strasbourg, the place of franco-german reconciliation and european unity. the choice of the seat of parliament cannot be an economic choice. it is a political choice based on historical grounds. is it worth recalling that an alsatian born in 1869, who had the good fortune to survive both world wars, would have had four successive nationalities? the castle of haut-koenigsburg, not far from strasbourg, bears the marks of charlemagne, of the entry of alsace into france in 1648, and of the three h's: hohenstaufen, habsburg and hohenzollern. i would invite those of our german friends who turn their backs on strasbourg to go there to get some fresh air. at a time when so many forces are seeking to destroy the european construction, do we want to send the following message to the french people: europe is leaving, it is turning its back on the franco-german friendship? brexit will not be enough for some, they need strasbourgxit! (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i am in favour of the single seat in strasbourg. it is the natural seat of parliament. the arguments have already been made, and they are very clear.
the commission has already taken action on this. my dear colleague and friend, i understand your attempt to increase the number of compensations as people speak up to say: frankly, you are so sad that you are being taken back to strasbourg that you will be given even more. the french government has just, less than an hour ago, through the official channel of the minister responsible for european affairs, given a clear and definitive end to france's refusal to accept the abandonment of the european parliament's seat in strasbourg. do you not think that we should stop debating this, since it is obviously a waste of time? (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken action on this. mr president, you who want lasting solutions, how do you explain that in germany, your country, the capital is in berlin and a large number of ministries are in bonn? it is not surprising that there are unnecessary expenses incurred for the weekly transfer of your ministers and their departments from bonn to berlin.
mr president, as some have pointed out, this debate is totally surreal for our fellow citizens, because everyone in this house has known for a long time that, in order to change the seat of parliament, we must go back to the treaties. a colleague reminded me just now that nathalie loiseau, the new minister for european affairs in mr macron's team, had expressed her refusal to accept any change in the seat from my country, france. you will tell me that we can always open pandora's box, but then we will have to bring the european court of justice, the european central bank, the council, the commission and all the rest into play. you know very well that this matter cannot be discussed at this time, because it is impossible. without going back to the historical, political and legal arguments - the amendment of the treaties - the arguments of the convenience offered by strasbourg, or the arguments of the political necessity to reject excessive centralisation of the institutions and to return to unity in diversity, which is the motto of europe, let us not say: yes to a single seat, yes to strasbourg, this single seat.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a minute to tell you all that i think of this debate is too short, because to answer each of the arguments against strasbourg would take me hours. the european association of young entrepreneurs has already done this perfectly. i encourage you to read his report. but it is also far too long, because to spend a minute on this sterile debate on a subject on which we are not the decision makers is already a minute too long. so to those who think of their mandate as that of a monopoly player against two hotels and a parliament, i give you a pharmaceutical agency and a school, i tell them to beware because, by forgetting why we are sitting together here in strasbourg and not elsewhere, they are facing a wake-up call that could be brutal and dangerous. in this connection, let me simply quote the german finance minister, mr wolfgang schäuble, who has made the preservation of public funds a quasi-religion. he said in 2013 that 'no other city explains the meaning of european connection in such an emotional way'. we must always remember that europe can only function when strasbourg is strong. we must constantly remind members of the importance of strasbourg. europe can only function with several centres. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs and my colleagues for their contribution to this report, and the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) for its opinion. this report comes a few months after the european commission published its new communication on the outermost regions of the union (ors), a decision which i welcome. but what the ors need now is not just a new strategy, but concrete, rapid and effective measures for youth employment, for fisheries, for their access to all the union's horizontal programmes and to the trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications networks. all this through the full implementation of article 349. especially since we now have the legal force to do so, with the decision of the court of justice of 15 december 2015. what we are asking for, in the end, is not a bigger budgetary effort - this debate may come - but simply the implementation of policies better adapted to our particular situations, as the treaty allows. what i call the culture of the ors must be better watered and shared across all the union's policies, across all the directorates-general, which, you will agree, is not always the case. the question which, in my view, is essential is that of the necessary transversal nature and coherence of european policies. it is not consistent that the important efforts made in cohesion policy by commissioner crețu, whose commitment i want to commend, are being obliterated by other policies, by other committees which still refuse to apply article 349 fully and to take account of the particularities of the ors. that's exactly what needs to be fixed. this is what president juncker himself stressed at the ur forum and this is the change that this report is advocating today. i am thinking of trade policy and free trade agreements, which, as you know, are very often devastating for our fragile economies and which, from our point of view, must take account in advance, in the negotiations themselves, of the interests of our products, such as sugar for reunion, bananas for the caribbean and milk for the portuguese and spanish outermost regions, which are already very fragile because of the disappearance of quotas. the european parliament therefore wished to make an objective assessment of the implementation of article 349 and to make a number of proposals in this report. in conclusion, i would like to express our concern about the future of cohesion policy beyond 2020. i want to express our concern that it might be distorted in relation to these solidarity objectives. i would like to say that if financial instruments were to replace subsidies, then the objectives we set for the outermost regions would be very difficult to achieve. this is why, in the future of cohesion policy, the least developed regions of europe, like the outermost regions, whatever the policy, will have to be protected.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, this report on promoting cohesion and development in the outermost regions (ors) provides an initial assessment of the application of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is also an opportunity to clarify parliament's positions with a view to the adoption by the european commission of a new strategy for the ors before the end of this year. in this report, we emphasise the support provided by the european union to the outermost regions and the need to make better use of their assets. this is reflected in concrete proposals in various key areas for the ors. first, at agricultural level, we call for the programme of specific options for remoteness and insularity (posei) to be maintained and for particular attention to be paid to certain sectors, in particular bananas and sugar. we also urge the european commission to implement the recommendations we adopted on 27 april in a resolution on the management of the fishing fleets in the outermost regions. in the field of international trade, given the fragility of the indonesian economy, we stress the need for the union to take this into account when concluding trade agreements with third countries. if safeguard clauses are to be provided for, it is important that they are effective in order to protect our overseas producers. as regards cohesion policy, we call for the specific arrangements for the ors to be maintained after 2020 and for flexibility to be increased in order to better adapt to their specificities. finally, as regards research, education, environment, enterprise competitiveness, transport and telecommunications policies, we call on the european commission to take the octs more into account in order to ensure their effective participation in the various programmes. i am glad that parliament has insisted on the erasmus programme in order to allow effective participation of all overseas countries and territories and overseas countries and territories in the programme by adapting the grants to the remoteness of the continent. the commission will adopt its new strategy for the ors in a few months' time. i therefore hope that it will be ambitious and will have concrete ways forward to ensure the sustainable development of the outermost regions.
i would like to thank mr omarjee for his report and congratulate him on the work he has done. although she is absent, i also want to commend commissioner crețu for her continued commitment to the outermost regions. ladies and gentlemen, this report is parliament's contribution to the communication which the commission will publish by the end of the year. i hope that the commission will adopt its content, in order to nourish the hope that the judgment of the european court of justice of 15 december 2015 has given rise to. this is a fundamental decision. it settles a conflict of interpretation on the scope of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and, above all, confirms that the latter can be used to derogate from both the treaty and secondary legislation. but, ladies and gentlemen, while we were expressing our differences of opinion on this article, the handicaps of our regions remained. i want to see the recent social movement that paralysed guyana for weeks. it reminds us of the urgency of action. the european union, thanks to this article, has powerful means to adopt measures specifically dedicated to the outermost regions. that is exactly what the text proposes. by adopting it tomorrow, the european parliament will demonstrate its loyalty to the treaty and to the values of solidarity on which our union is founded.
the rapporteur. madam president, it is my turn to thank all my colleagues, and i hope the european commission has noted the very good unanimity of the groups, of all the political groups in the european parliament in support of the outermost regions (ors). this report is a collective report that we have drawn up together, and tomorrow's vote, which will be that of the european parliament, will be a very strong signal to the european commission that the progress we are waiting for should be made as soon as possible. the outermost regions are, with the exception of guyana, mostly islands. but the management of these regions within the european commission cannot and must not be an island. cohesion, regional policy, are where the main advances have been made vis-à-vis the outermost regions, but we all know today - and this has been emphasised by many of my colleagues - that the potential for future development for the outermost regions lies in the creation of high added value, innovation, research and development. that is why the transversal approach i have mentioned must be put into practice and we must have access to a number of new instruments through the horizontal programmes. finally, i would like to stress the essential nature of the programme of specific options for remote and insular areas (posei), which must not only be safeguarded but also strengthened.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these draft texts adopted under the marrakesh treaty will help to reduce the 'book famine' which blind and visually impaired people and people with print disabilities suffer. i would remind you that currently only between 1 and 7% of the works published worldwide are available in accessible formats. this is unacceptable. in europe, nearly 30 million people are affected. i should like to welcome the initiatives already in existence, such as the tigar project, which has become the abc's world book exchange service and in which french publishers have participated in large numbers. the two texts resulting from the trilogue negotiations are moving in the right direction, with the inclusion of the e-book in their scope and a limited system of compensation for rightholders. i can nevertheless regret that some of the arrangements that existed in the marrakesh treaty and in some member states were not taken up. although i deny the european union any competence to conclude such treaties, the purpose of these texts obviously transcends any other consideration. as a frenchwoman from a highly literary country, i can only be happy about this step forward for all those people who will finally have access to a greater part of our heritage.
mr president, reading is essential for the acquisition of a thorough culture and, consequently, for the development of the human person. special arrangements must therefore be made to enable the blind and visually impaired to access them. this is the meaning of the directive and regulation presented today. so i'm sticking with their general philosophy. the european union must remain modest, however, because it was the 2013 marrakesh treaty, both texts of which are only transpositions, that represented a major breakthrough for the blind, granting exemptions or exceptions to copyright for books intended for the blind. the progress made should therefore be welcomed, but it should be emphasised that it is due to the world intellectual property organisation, which inspired the treaty, and not to the union. the marrakesh treaty represents a victory for solidarity over financial pressure groups. it's rare enough to be worth mentioning.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, the increase in norwegian whale catches is of particular concern, especially when it comes to pregnant females. norway, which is not a member of the european union, opted to oppose the 1986 global moratorium on whaling. the european commission therefore has very little room for manoeuvre to persuade the country to apply the moratorium. an embargo or a ban on the transit of whale meat through european ports would be punitive, but not constructive, sanctions. the world is not limited to the european union, and whale meat would continue to circulate in third country ports. so let us deal with the problem at its source in the framework of the cites convention and the international whaling commission, two organizations of which norway is a member. let the states act together on such a delicate matter.
mr president, please understand that the 1 250 whales caught by norwegian whalers between 2015 and 2017 despite the international moratorium of 1987 is not acceptable. the european union must do everything possible to ensure that norway puts an end to these practices. first, we must convince the norwegian whalers themselves that at this rate they will soon have nothing to hunt. secondly, we must act politically with the norwegian government, a partner of the european union, to make it take responsibility, but it seems to me that the strongest tool available to the european union is trade control. ensuring transparency through the control of cites documents in ports is no doubt a heavy burden, but it is necessary to enforce it. at the moment - and this has been said by several colleagues - when we are negotiating a trade treaty with japan, which is a whale meat consumer, we would be well advised to have this matter dealt with in the official documents.
madam president, 'i have no enemies, i have no hatred' was what liu xiaobo said during his hunger strike during the tiananmen square movement in 1989, 21 years before he was awarded the nobel peace prize. a prize he was never able to collect in oslo because he was imprisoned for 11 years for, quote, "inciting subversion of the state". "i have no enemies, i have no hatred", could have said lee ming-che, the taiwanese educator and activist, kidnapped by the people's republic of china, because he was suspected, i quote again, of "activities endangering the security of the state". "it has enemies and so much hatred", one might say of china, when one sees the number of political dissidents who, year after year, continue to be arrested and imprisoned. when will the european union finally break its diplomatic timidity and have the courage to denounce unanimously these human rights violations by china, which is locking up men whose only duty is to express themselves freely?
author. madam president, yes, dawit isaak is a symbol. a swedish-eritrean journalist, he was arrested in september 2001 along with dozens of others, as the country was plunging into dictatorship. in eritrea, there has been no free press since that date. abune antonios, former patriarch of the orthodox church, is another symbol. he was imprisoned in 2016 for refusing to excommunicate 3,000 of his parishioners who opposed the regime. for the past few months, things seem to be getting worse. (the president cut the speaker off)
author. madam president, at least 30 seconds because it was barely 30 when i was interrupted. i need to get back to where i was, by the way. i'm going to repeat a sentence, i'm sorry, please excuse me. for the past few months, things seem to be getting worse. the un special rapporteur speaks of systematic and widespread violations that may constitute crimes against humanity. this is the moment the european union has chosen to make eritrea a partner in the better migration management project and to provide it with €46 million, plus €5 million through the rock programme for the training of police and border guards. we are told that the eritrean government will not directly benefit from these funds. let me be skeptical, it's simply impossible in this country to do anything without going through the government. what's the next step? the deportation of eritreans to their country of origin? the union cannot continue to support the regimes that are the very source of migration.
madam president, the people of eritrea have been in a state of torment for too long. a human and political drama is unfolding behind closed doors in this newly independent country. dawit isaak has become an international symbol, but many other citizens, especially women, suffer from the denial of their basic rights and are subject to violence. there is no other word than "slavery" to describe the 400,000 people currently conscripted into what local authorities modestly call "national service". the european union is providing significant support to eritrea with funding of around €200 million and it seems to me that it has the right, but also the duty, to act, by making its assistance conditional on a minimum respect for human rights. i also call on the member states to welcome eritrean asylum seekers, who would be condemned to hell if they were returned to their country.
member of the commission. – madam president, there is no doubt that i share the honourable members’ frustration about the situation in eritrea, and maybe if i still had my former position as an mep i would say that enough is enough, but now i am on the other side in this plenary. the european union is concerned over continued human-rights violations in eritrea and, in particular, about the cases of his holiness abune antonios and dawit isaak. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is, for all of us, a core value of the european union and a key priority in eu internal and external policy. it therefore features regularly in our political dialogue with the eritrean authorities. the case of dawit isaak has been of major concern since his arbitrary arrest in september 2001. his continued detention since then, without charges, trial or legal counsel, represents a serious violation of international obligations by eritrea. the same applies in respect of the other 10 independent journalists, and honourable members have already focused on this. we are also worried about the situation of his holiness abune antonios, patriarch of the eritrean orthodox church, who marks his tenth year of incommunicado house arrest in an unknown location, although he has never been charged with any offence. we regularly address these issues at the highest level of the government of eritrea and draw attention to them in international forums, including the united nations human rights council. since 2001, the eu has regularly issued statements calling for the immediate and unconditional release of political prisoners in eritrea. the union also regularly asks the eritrean authorities to take all necessary steps to comply with their international commitments, including on freedom of religion or belief and freedom of expression, association and assembly. in line with the resolution of the un human rights council on the human-rights situation in eritrea which was adopted in june this year, the eu continues to engage with eritrea with a view to improving the human-rights situation on the ground. the eu will support the full implementation of the recommendations made to eritrea under the un-led universal periodic review. the eu will continue to press for an improvement in the human-rights situation in eritrea and urge the government of eritrea to release the political prisoners, including dawit isaak. moreover, the eu shall request that all information on the whereabouts of these prisoners is made public and that they have access to their families and lawyers, not least on humanitarian grounds. at the same time, the eu will continue to promote freedom of religion or belief – a right that should be exercised everywhere by all – on the basis of the principles of universality, equality and non-discrimination.
madam president, i would like to point out to the commissioner that many of us have asked him about the question of the funds allocated by the european union and that we have not received any answers on this matter. i think that's a shame.
author. madam president, since the spring of 2015, burundi has been sinking into crisis. president nkurunziza wants to stay in power for a third and even a fourth term, calling into question the arusha accords and reviving the spectre of civil war. thousands of opponents are silenced, including within the president's single party. the repression is becoming increasingly violent, militarized by militias, including the imbonerakure, the youth league of the president's party. the ethnic issue is being exploited and the un itself is talking about the risk of genocide. the worst is feared in this country, which is neighbouring rwanda, as the whole region is at risk of destabilisation. the international community has been slow to react. however, targeted sanctions were taken, notably by the european union. in the gue/ngl group we are sceptical about the deployment of military forces and believe that political solutions should be given priority. but here they are far from obvious. so yes, we must help the burundian refugees, including by facilitating their arrival on european union soil.
mr president, thank you for this minute of silence in respect of all the victims of the hurricanes, particularly irma, which struck the caribbean and the european territories of saint martin and saint barthélemy. but i would also like to add our wishes for courage, which must accompany the rescue and security forces, so that there are no more human losses and order is restored quickly. i would also like to take this opportunity to commend the european union's mobilisation, and in particular the work of the dg echo team, led by commissioner stylianides, both in brussels, at the emergency response centre, and on the ground. these efforts must be intensified. that is why i am today solemnly calling for the swift mobilisation of the european solidarity fund to consider, now, a strategy for repair and reconstruction in these territories. this major crisis demonstrates the priority to increase coordination and reflection at european level to define scenarios linked to new types of risks and to consider crisis management strategies more adapted to the scale of disasters that citizens may face, in particular by making use of our know-how and existing civil protection and security infrastructures in europe.
mr president, on this subject i think that this 'without object' is inadequate because the remarks which have been reproached to mrs le pen were made in the course of her duties, more or less, or, at any rate, when she was a member of the european parliament. however, parliamentary immunity is not intended to protect the member. it is designed to protect the institution, our institution. therefore, i personally consider, having served for a very long time in the so-called committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities, when it existed, that the fact that mrs le pen was subsequently elected to the french parliament does not exempt our institution, if it wishes to do so - and it should do so - from protecting the immunity of one of its members, who was a sitting mep when the facts wrongly alleged were committed.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women and domestic violence are plagues that are spreading throughout europe and urgent action is needed. one in three women has experienced at least one form of physical and sexual violence since the age of 15. one in 20 women have been raped. one woman dies every three days in france as a result of domestic violence. behind these numbers are the tragedies and tragedies that have shattered the lives of many women and their children. let me tell you a true story. a 35-year-old woman, who had been supported by the sos women's association in her department for several years, filed a complaint against her partner for death threats in november 2015. the complaint was dismissed without further action. then, after she filed for divorce, she was killed in november 2016 by her boyfriend, who stabbed her 24 times. their 11-year-old son, who was present at the murder, tried to intervene to protect his mother and was injured. this is one of the realities of gender-based violence, and when this violence threatens half of our population, we have to take full responsibility. this is what the european union is doing by acceding to the istanbul convention. it is a strong commitment to protect women wherever they live in europe. the istanbul convention is the first legally binding international instrument on violence against women. the convention pursues a comprehensive approach that combines prevention of violence, protection of victims and prosecution of those responsible. to eradicate violence against women, it is not just a matter of combating violence itself, but also a profound change in the mentality of our society. this violence is rooted in a wider context of persistent discrimination and inequality between men and women. even today, women still face sexism in the private and professional spheres, are more affected by insecurity and earn less than men, are less represented in political bodies and in business executives, and the media or advertising continue to convey stereotypes and degrading images. it is these deep roots, deeply rooted in our societies, that we must combat. there is no fatalism in my words, but putting words to violence and discrimination and becoming aware of the scale of the phenomenon is a necessary first step. we can do something. i am thinking of education as the main driver of change in a society. from an early age, girls and boys must be educated in gender equality and respect for the dignity and fundamental rights of everyone. only education can create new and more just behaviours in a lasting way. i would add that this report clearly states that the refusal of safe and legal abortion is violence against women, and i am not the only one to say this. the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women recently stated that the denial of safe abortion is a form of gender-based violence and can even, in some cases, amount to torture. parliament is constantly speaking out against the reactionary and repressive initiatives of certain governments which infringe the right to dispose of its body. if some people think they can decide for a woman, they are wrong. we are honouring the exemplary struggle of thousands of european women, whether spanish in 2014 or polish in 2016. i commend them once again for their courage and commitment. it's a message of hope. citizen mobilization can bring down the most conservative governments and the most regressive and degrading bills. i am proud to have brought this important report against violence against women, half of humanity, i remind you. i would like to thank very warmly the co-rapporteur, mrs corazza bildt, and all the fictional rapporteurs who have done an admirable job on this dossier. but this is only the first step and there is still a long way to go. i will pay particular attention to the implementation of the convention, because that is the real issue. the financial and human resources are needed to make these measures have an impact on women's lives. i therefore call on the commission to present a comprehensive european strategy, with a legislative act on preventing and combating violence against women. it's urgent that we don't wait. all women in europe have an absolute right to live free from violence.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the proposal for the european union to accede to the convention on the prevention of violence against women, known as the istanbul convention, raises many legal and political problems. violence against women, whatever its origin or form, must be fought, and it must be fought fiercely. the woman is the most precious thing we have on this earth: she gives life. no civilized society can tolerate any violence against these women, against women everywhere. france, like all the countries of the european union, is fighting every day against all forms of violence against women. if our leaders sometimes lack foresight about the new threats that are looming over them - i am thinking in particular of radical islamism which is closing them in on all aspects - they are the only ones who have the instruments of criminal law to combat this violence. the european union is in no way legitimate to accede to the convention, let alone ratify it. only sovereign states can do this and it will not have escaped you that only 14 out of 28 member states have done so. how can we not interpret your request for ratification as a further attempt to ignore the opinion of the people and as the introduction of a supranational decision-making process? once ratified by the european union, the istanbul convention will be enforceable on those states which have not ratified it. it was for the form; let's get to the bottom of this. if the text of the convention and your rationale for ratifying it were good, we could have re-thought the way we proceed and tackled the root of the problem: violence against women. why do some member states rightly refuse to ratify a convention to combat violence against women? certainly because they are aware of your communitarian flaws and the ideological aspect of this convention. once the convention is ratified and finally imposed on all member states, any criticism of sex, gender, race, colour, language, religion, wealth, birth, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, migrant or refugee status, political opinion, opinion in general and national or social origin will be condemnable. your text is not intended to protect women who are victims of violence in a concrete way. it is aimed primarily at establishing communitarianism. the only thing these communities have in common is that they will be oppressed by the culprit of all evil: the white male, the straight male, the racist, the homophobe, the xenophobe, the transphobe and so on. ladies and gentlemen, since you do not mention this at any point in your text, i would like to conclude by stressing the danger that european women are facing today, as they are threatened in body and soul by uncontrollable hordes of migrants. unfortunately, the news regularly gives us sordid examples of this and this danger exists only because of the suicidal immigration policy you support. your narrow and limited view of women is an insult to the genius they are capable of. st. genevieve, joan of arc and marie curie, thank god, did not need your aid policies or your quotas to show their worth and courage.
the rapporteur. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank anna maria corazza bildt for this successful cooperation. it was very useful that the two committees femm and libe joined forces in the completion of this demanding report. i also thank all the fictitious rapporteurs for their work. we have all come up with an ambitious text that is up to the challenge. this is a fundamental issue that will have a direct impact on the lives of millions of women, half our population. in this climate of mistrust, this report proves that the european union is protecting its citizens. i also thank you, commissioner, for your strong and clear commitment and i also ask estonia to accelerate the ratification of the istanbul convention by the union under its presidency. however, there is still a long way to go, starting with the premise that there is no excuse for violence against women and that using one religion or another to divert attention from the real causes of this scourge is simply outrageous. the european union's commitment to this istanbul convention is an undeniable added value and must play a key coordinating role. equality between women and men and respect for the rule of law are among our fundamental principles. the fight will continue at all levels, and this has been said by many speakers. it is very important that all the eu member states ratify this convention. and beyond that - and i repeat - i am convinced that legislation on preventing and combating violence against women is the next essential step. a directive would provide common definitions at european level of crimes against women and would make it possible to strengthen the implementation of the convention and to translate into concrete measures those provisions which fall within the competence of the union.
mr president, commissioner, although air transport is largely absent from the paris agreement, it is the most polluting mode of transport per passenger and per kilometre travelled. a round-trip flight from london to new york emits as much co2 as a house heated by fossil fuels for a year. with a traffic growth rate of 5% per year, air transport emissions could be at least tripled by 2050. we therefore need to adopt a global regulatory mechanism to compensate for these increased co2 emissions from airlines. unfortunately, the corsia mechanism will only be legally binding from 2027. in the face of this climate emergency, we must, commissioner, limit the extension of the 'stop the clock' to 2020, i believe that this is a matter of defending europeans and, beyond that, all those who are affected by climate change in the fight against climate change.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by sven giegold on transparency, accountability and integrity in the european institutions (2015/2041 (ini)) (a8-0133/2017).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 14 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by constanze krehl on a space strategy for europe (2016/2325 (ini)) (a8-0250/2017).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. this is the first european space strategy, so it is an important moment for the future of europe for several reasons. ensuring independent european access to space is essential if we want a stronger and freer europe on the international stage. space is in all public policies, starting with environmental issues, defence, agriculture, digital...it is a cross-cutting sector! our industry, and especially our smes, must have the means to achieve our ambitions, so we must support them so that they can develop their activities, produce in europe and have long-term visibility, especially for european start-ups. we must give smes in particular the opportunity to make better use of spatial data to develop services and practical applications. this will require an ambitious budget for research, infrastructure and space programmes, galileo and copernicus in particular. finally, we urgently need to train young europeans in the specific skills required by the space sector. many jobs will be created in the future!
the agenda calls for the report by maria arena on the impact of international trade and the european union's trade policies on global value chains (2016/2301 (ini)) (a8-0269/2017).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 september 2017.
the agenda calls for the report by milan zver on university continuing and distance education in the framework of the european lifelong learning strategy (2016/2142 (ini)) (a8-0252/2017).
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. this report was an opportunity to bring everyone together. who can deny the need to make distance learning more possible through digital means? no one did. but as too often, the theme of the proposal was hijacked to serve ideological purposes. why bring up gender issues ? why so many measures for refugees when we expect real proposals for the majority of the population? why should states dictate their educational policies when it is within their competence? is it so difficult to make a fair analysis of the general situation and to propose solutions for all? what good is it to have my doorman tell me what my front door should look like ? what right has he to ask me to change my interior ? clearly, it is impossible for some to pursue the common good. where they should be working on solutions for citizens, they are spending all their energy on fighting for their own personal struggles. this is how they create new problems instead of solving them. they advance their pawns while the citizens wait.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to tell you about a young man of 32 years of age. he's a french-palestinian, lives in jerusalem and just became a lawyer. a few days after he graduated as a lawyer, he was arrested on 23 august at his home for no reason and, after much hesitation by the israeli justice system, he was placed, like millions of palestinians, in administrative detention - apparently on the basis of a secret file because it was completely empty. his name is salah hamouri. this shows the obstinacy and the total lack of respect for the law by a state which constantly proclaims itself to be one of our closest partners. our foreign service cannot and must demand the unconditional and immediate release of salah hamouri. it is high time that the european union made its cooperation with the state of israel conditional on respect for fundamental rights, law and international conventions, as it does with so many other states. immediately release salah hamouri.
madam president, the european union has lost the confidence of the people. the left, right and centre parties that support her are anxiously anticipating the 2019 european elections. that is why they are devising an electoral system that could skew the results in their favour. their idea - supported by emmanuel macron - is to create, alongside national lists, transnational lists which would be put to the vote of all europeans. french candidates in difficulty in their own country could thus be elected by the voters of other european states. it is a real lifeline for the greens, who have virtually disappeared from the french political scene. it was enough to think about it: since the french people vote badly, the eurocracy changes the people. the subterfuge is outrageous. the union is once again trying to circumvent the results of universal suffrage, as it did to destroy the french referendum in 2005. but the enl group will oppose it.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, dear commissioner, i am pleased to see you again for your first debate in this house, there will be others. we always wonder what europe is doing for its citizens. by funding the deployment of free wi-fi networks in public spaces, the wifi4eu initiative, which we will be voting on tomorrow, is an example of a europe that is visible and useful in the daily lives of europeans. i believe that all citizens should have access to the internet, no matter what they earn and where they live. there are still too many rural villages without quality connections. worse still, almost half of the population of the european union does not have sufficient digital skills. the aim of the text is therefore to promote rural areas and those most in need. while the allocation will be on a first-come, first-served basis, we wanted a balanced distribution across regions. the system should be as simple as possible to avoid the paperwork often associated with eu funds and to allow smaller municipalities to participate. the financing will therefore be in the form of purchase vouchers of eur 20 000, with relaxed control conditions. the budget negotiations were difficult. we have secured €120 million, but we know that this is not enough to cover the needs of hundreds of thousands of european municipalities. however, with the creation of a unique authentication system for each user, wifi4eu can become the catalyst for the deployment of free european wi-fi in all public places. internet connectivity is not an end in itself. it is the prerequisite for the digital transformation of our economy and society. with wifi4eu, we are promoting this connectivity to enable everyone to take full advantage of the digital revolution.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the project presented today aims to make very high-speed internet a free service in a few privileged public spaces in the union for a budget of €120 million. let us ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, what we could have done with those 120 million euros in the field of the internet. we should have used these 120 million to reduce the digital divide, at a time when only 18% of households in rural areas of the union are connected. this public money should be dedicated to private access for businesses, for whom the internet is essential to maintain their jobs, and for individuals in landlocked areas, because what they need is not free wi-fi near their homes, but the possibility of connecting at their work and living places. the text is also symptomatic of the excesses of the european union. the aim of the scheme is to promote the 'values and benefits of the union' to users and will therefore convey ultra-european propaganda. it also gives the union and local authorities full decision-making power, without prejudice to national interests. for these reasons, the french delegation of the enf group will not support this initiative.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, officially, the two main objectives of this text are to improve transparency in the european gas sector and to strengthen solidarity between member states to prevent and alleviate supply crises. in reality, the project proposed to us today seems to us to have as its priority a completely different objective, namely to liberalize and further federalise the european gas market. the new regulation aims to oblige member states to obtain the commission's approval for intergovernmental agreements in an area where it is natural for them to defend their economic and possibly geopolitical interests. moreover, if we approve this draft, it will come into force in just 20 days, without even consulting the national parliaments. the commission's objective also seems to be to impose its geopolitical choices on the states by imposing qatar and the united states where some states have committed themselves to large-scale projects to supply russian gas. two member states - austria and bulgaria - have already delivered unfavourable opinions on the project, denouncing the breach of the principle of subsidiarity and national sovereignty. our group shares this position. (the rapporteur rejects a question by mr turmes (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must return to reality. all the studies show that europe will still be dependent on russian gas for the next 20 or 30 years, and it is not american or qatari gas that will change anything. secondly, only long-term contracts can guarantee the energy security of the member states. they are the links in the energy security chain. by weakening long-term contracts, by weakening the negotiating power of the states, by promoting the spot market for the benefit of speculation, the commission and this parliament are not ensuring europe's energy security but its energy insecurity. we have to get out of this europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, in recent months millions of eggs have been contaminated in several european countries. as i told the commissioner yesterday, there are now 39 products in france, which have so far been sold in large quantities, in which the amount of fipronil exceeds the maximum authorized level. however, the world health organisation classifies this insecticide as moderately toxic to humans. while there are limited risks associated with the consumption of a single food containing trace amounts of fipronil, regular consumption of these products can be very harmful to health. the fipronil scandal is all the more striking because the identification and indication of the countries of origin of egg products is particularly poorly designed. the illegal use of fipronil is known to date back to november 2016. the european commission justifies itself by stating that belgium only issued the alert on 20 july. brussels claims that it was not the addressee of the notification from belgium to the netherlands under the administrative assistance and cooperation system. if the commission had suspicions of activities that appeared to be contrary to the law, it could always carry out inspections or ask the state concerned to intensify checks. it is surprising to say the least that in eight months the commission has not been informed of any information on the fraudulent use of fipronil in several countries. as regards the traces of a second insecticide, amitraze, found in several european farms, the french authorities claim that they have not received any communication from the rapid alert system for food. this lack of warning and recommendations from the european union only reinforces citizens' mistrust and unfortunately demonstrates the inability of brussels to ensure health and food safety.
mr president, commissioner, it is like the story of the man who fell from a 50-storey building. as he falls, he repeats, to reassure himself: "so far so good, so far so good". this is a quote from a french film called "la haine" and it could be applied to the issue of fipronil. from banned pesticides or doses exceeding the permitted levels, from horse meat sold for beef, from a weed killer that is disputed and recognized by some scientists as a probable carcinogen but still on the open market, from endocrine disruptors to bisphenol a, from nitrates to adulterated honey, not a month goes by without a new health scandal breaking out. european citizens are rightly concerned about their food, agriculture and the environment. and now, the fipronil-contaminated eggs! we are told that these contaminated eggs are not dangerous to the health of consumers, but i ask the question: what if these eggs were toxic and posed a threat to the health of our fellow citizens? would we have waited a year, like we do here? this new scandal is unacceptable, it demonstrates three things. firstly, our european early warning systems are perfect and must be improved very quickly, and that has been said. secondly, we must do everything we can to strengthen controls to protect consumers in the union from these fraudulent practices. and finally, it is essential to defend and support our industries, which are destabilized and ensnared by a few unscrupulous cheats. the important thing is not the fall, commissioner, but the landing.
mr president, i see three questions. first, who called the alarm? the commissioner said: the european early warning system. i think it is a very good tool, as you have mentioned, but we need to give the member states responsibility. as has been said, it is not normal that the belgians should have taken so long and the dutch so long. this means that amendments must be proposed in terms of sanctions, because we must use this example to ensure that this does not happen again. then we have a second problem: who controls and how? look at the member states. they're either agencies or they're operators. i looked at france: out of 15 billion eggs, there are only 600 controls. so it's really a needle in a haystack. and when i looked at the controls, there was no fipronil, because fipronil is moderately toxic, as the who says. so you can see that there is a big concern in terms of product control. lastly, i think there are two kinds of weights and measures. when you say 'there is no health risk', what do you know about it, commissioner? fipronil is known to be neurotoxic, can cause thyroid cancer and can also accumulate in fat. so, because this has been going on since september 2016, we have absolutely no idea what the risks are.
mr president, commissioner, a new crossborder food scandal has broken out in europe in recent months: eggs laced with an insecticide, fipronil. in the 19 european countries concerned, tens of millions of eggs and processed products such as waffles and children's biscuits were withdrawn from sale. we must fight against food fraud by some in the european food industry. we therefore need more europe to improve the early warning system for foodstuffs, which i already helped to strengthen as our parliament's rapporteur on serious cross-border threats to health in 2013. what then? make it compulsory for member states to alert the existing european bodies which have already demonstrated their effectiveness in recent years. it is therefore time, commissioner, that these policies to combat food fraud are no longer the responsibility of the member states but a genuine european community policy. it is about our food security, and therefore our health.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report will make the rules on arms exports to the member states even more stringent, when these rules and their use are already hindering the freedom of our states. we saw this in the mistral case, where france, by breaking its word, destroyed the confidence that potential buyers could have in it. and we followed the recommendations. however, when western weapons are to end up in the hands of neo-nazi groups, as in ukraine, or jihadist groups, as in syria, or in the middle east, which has a very special vision of democracy and human rights, then this is still possible, with the support of the commission and even with the support of this parliament, for some countries. we cannot subject france's credibility and independence to outside forces. it's about our sovereignty. it's time for france to get out of this europe.
mr president, national defence is a national responsibility and must remain so. each state has the right to acquire military technology for its own defence and has the right to export its weapons freely. however, we must take precautions to avoid selling arms to states which would use them against us, either directly or through terrorist organisations. i therefore support the valero report when it stresses the usefulness of consultation between european states, including the united kingdom. i agree with him even more when he advises them to decide on an arms embargo on saudi arabia. i am, however, outraged by the valero report when it seeks to give the union the power to allow or not states to export their arms. such a recommendation is contrary to national sovereignty. that is why i shall vote against it.
mr president, when we talk about national defence or arms exports, we cannot just say anything. it should be remembered that the major arms exporting countries, particularly the european countries, comply with extremely precise standards, both international and european. and that even some countries - including france - have national standards that are even stricter than european standards. it is also necessary to recall, when we talk about these subjects, the convergence of interests, finally, of the countries, particularly in the face of terrorism, in the face of the fight against trafficking, which is necessary, in the face of the destabilization of a number of countries. in a world where conflicts are initially local but increasingly international, it is clear that there is a certain solidarity and that we cannot deny countries the right to defend themselves, especially when they share the same values as ours. the rejection of arms exports a priori, as some advocate, is a purely ideological position. it is to deny countries the right to defend themselves, it is to deny, in the name of blind naivete or of an equally blind angelicism, our fellow citizens the right to be protected. strict control of arms exports is an obvious legal, moral and ethical requirement, but to refuse exports in the name of a pacifist utopia is to open the way for others who will not have the same scruples as us. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". mrs. lunacek, i know what war is. as minister of defence, i have been to countries at war and i have seen firsthand what it means. so from that perspective, i know. in your question, there are actually two elements. the first concerns the criteria. yes, countries have set criteria, as i told you, particularly european countries, and i told you that france was the country with the most stringent criteria in the world for arms exports. so that's the first thing. as regards saudi arabia, i hear you talking a lot about saudi arabia, and i remind you that i am the chairman of the delegation for relations between the european union and the arab gulf states. so if you talk about saudi arabia, you might also talk about iran and those who are actually causing so much damage to the population. look at the reports from other countries and also remember that the coalition of all the arab gulf countries intervened at the request of the legitimate yemeni government. so are you saying that you support rebels against legitimate governments? that's the question you're asking too.
mr president, in this world of disorder, instability and danger, it is obvious that we must build a europe of defence. yesterday it was a reality that was becoming more and more evident, today it is a necessity that must be implemented in accordance with our values, combining responsibility and trust. responsibility in building this europe of defence. we have made great strides in the last year. our parliament must support them. confidence, because in a state governed by the rule of law such as ours, we must be accountable, that is the point of this valero report which rightly calls for control of arms exports to improve transparency in this sector. responsibility in a europe of defence which protects us, the confidence of our fellow citizens in our action for our collective security, that is our european message today.
madam president, there are many of us here who are deeply pacifist, but we must not be naive. that is why i welcome the balanced report by mrs valero. he stresses several necessities. of course, the defence sector, but also industry and armaments. we must not be naive here either, because we know very well that russia, china and the united states, to name just a few, have a very competitive arms industry. but what interests me most about this report are the criteria it seeks to highlight: first, indeed, respect for human rights in the importing countries, the behaviour of states, both internally and internationally, and then respect for the precautionary principle. i think we have to be very vigilant in this respect because we have seen that a number of weapons and technologies have ended up in the hands of people who had more than just pacifist intentions. secondly, we must fight against smuggling and illicit trade and ensure the transparency of transactions - this seems to me very important - in the national parliaments, but also, and increasingly, in the european parliament, for a europe of defence which, like gilles pargneaux, i wish to see.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 13 september 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in north korea (2017/2826 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, every marxist regime is by definition criminal, liberticidal and perverse. so, kim jong-un is dangerous, but is he completely insane? for the past three decades, most of the regimes opposed to the new world order have been overthrown, either by external military intervention, as in iraq and libya, or by domestic subversion, as in the color revolutions. the already highly paranoid north korea, which is muzzling its people, indoctrinating them and depriving them of any freedom of thought or expression, has concluded that only nuclear weapons can be a deterrent against the united states, which has colossal military forces. the bellicose attitude of the nato countries is the main cause of the development of the korean military nuclear programme. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it should be remembered that the soviet union collapsed not because of its military strength but because of its economic strength.
madam president, the current situation in korea makes me think irresistibly of july 1914, when germany entered the war for fear of being attacked first by russia and france. it is quite possible that, as president putin said recently and as the previous speaker said, the north korean regime is much more rational than is generally believed. mr kim jong-un must have pondered the examples of iraq and libya which, after being disarmed at the request of the west, were attacked by the west. maybe he thinks that nuclear weapons are his life insurance. in this context of mutual distrust, we should support the proposal of the chinese foreign minister, mr wang yi, who suggested last march that north korea suspend its nuclear programme in exchange for the cessation of us military exercises in south korea, which i do not see as being of much strategic interest. it is regrettable that this suggestion was rejected by nikki haley, the us permanent representative to the un, and the state department spokesman. it should be resumed with the assistance of the european union, china and russia. here is a proposal from the commissioner. (the president withdrew the floor)
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on recent developments in the field of migration (2017/2827(rsp)).
madam president, madam high representative, cédric herrou, farmer, sentenced to four months' suspended prison for helping migrants cross the italian border. pierre-alain mannoni, teacher-researcher, sentenced to two months' suspended prison for helping three eritrean women. in the mediterranean, ngos accused of colluding with smugglers and creating an air call. in france, in europe, in 2017, solidarity is a crime. these women and men are today's heroes, despite the inaction of the state. human beings will continue to risk their lives, not for a shower in calais but to escape war and poverty. the question is no longer whether we should welcome them but how we will welcome them. subcontracting their fate to libyan criminal networks or authoritarian regimes will not end migration or its cause. it is time for states to show themselves to be responsible and to live up to the standards of these ordinary heroes who honour the values of a europe of humanity and solidarity.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, whenever the european union has taken over an area of exclusive competence, it has been a disaster. i would like to mention the steel industry. today, europe produces virtually no steel. i want to quote the peach. today, traditional fishing has been sacrificed to industrial fishing. i also want to talk about agriculture. today, unfortunately, our continent, which was once a large agricultural country, has been sacrificed in the face of the free trade agreement. now you're telling us about immigration. i think it's even worse with this immigration policy. it's worse than fishing, worse than farming. today, the immigration policy you propose is a crazy and dramatic opening for the peoples of europe. what your policy is bringing is the submersion of migration, the programmed disappearance of our peoples and our civilization.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the turkish question seems to be embracing the german election campaign. mrs merkel has even decided the debate on accession. it has never believed this and would even be prepared to break off the talks on the customs union. relations between berlin and ankara are getting closer, almost making us forget that mrs merkel was the main architect of the agreement, the declaration, sorry, eu-turkey. the situation in turkey deserves better. there are more and more negligent trials, as evidenced by the resumption of the trials of cumhuriyet journalists in recent days. turkey is now more than ever the world's largest prison for journalists. as a frenchwoman, i am thinking of loup bureau, imprisoned for a report on turkish fighters in syria, but also of all the imprisoned kurds, and in particular our parliamentary colleagues, including selahattin demirtas and figen yüksekdag, co-chairs of the hdp, who have been imprisoned for more than ten months, and of all the progressive people who languish by the thousands in turkish prisons and who are all accused of terrorism. in this context, to which we must indeed add the non-settlement of the cyprus question, any negotiation, with or without a human rights clause, seems incongruous. only the rule of law should motivate decisions and not some unnamed islamophobia. we should only be concerned with the interests of the people, not the interests of the business world. unfortunately, we are a long way from that. it is not a question of being pro- or anti-turkish, but of treating turkey like any other country in our neighbourhood.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, a century ago, turkey was referred to as the sick man of europe. today i think that the real sick man of europe is the european union. you have entered into negotiations which are pointless, you have made a mistake in your relations with turkey, the relationship you have entered into with turkey is a purely transactional relationship. you traded migrants for membership of the european union. but the people of europe do not want your disastrous project and i believe that today you have gone completely wrong. we had to offer a large partnership, a privileged partnership. turkey, this great country, this great people, deserved something different from your proposals. i think that you have made proposals which are not in the direction of accession today, you have led turkey into negotiations which will not lead to anything, you have wasted your time, and you have wasted a lot of time for turkey, for the european union and for us in the european parliament.
mr president, turkey is our neighbour. we must therefore engage in dialogue with it, as commissioner hahn has just said. we must have dialogue on all subjects, particularly on migration policy, but we must be firm and not angelic, as mrs mogherini has just been when she quoted the pope. but the pope is in his role and the leaders of the union should be in theirs. dialogue is not submission. turkey - i should like to remind you - is a constant violator of human rights and its attitude is completely different from the values we defend in this house. on the other hand, erdogan openly mocks us. is it necessary to recall that the occupation of cyprus continues, even though it is a member state of the union, and is it also necessary to recall that erdogan came to strasbourg two years ago to criticise european civilization right under our noses? the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, is that the national front is the one that mrs merkel has just taken up. the negotiations on turkey's accession to the union must be stopped as a matter of urgency.
in writing. 12 years to understand that turkey is not european. on 3 september 2017, angela merkel stated that "turkey should not become a member of the european union". this reversal highlights the problem we europeans have with the long duration of history. it took us 12 years of negotiations and a waste of over 10 billion euros to reach a historic conclusion: turkey is not european! turkish islamists are only closing a short parenthesis in turkish history, that of the kemalist nation-state. before erdogan, erbakan, in the 1990s, announced the break: "we are not westerners", he said, "we are not europeans", before adding that "in his eyes the european union was, i quote, "a christian club under masonic influence". turkey, this major player in the multipolar world, which has played with us, which has played with the islamic state, with the flows of migrants, with the turkish diasporas in europe, this turkey brings us back to the school benches, to receive one of the great lessons of history: our utopias are always swept away by the long duration of history.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the question here is not one of judging venezuela's domestic politics. this is a sovereign country and we cannot judge all the people of the world. in what name? what are our values? but then these values should teach us respect for sovereignty. each of us will appreciate this policy according to our own sensibilities. i am not tempted, rest assured, by mr chavez's socialism or even his communism. i fought them and i fight them, but let's tell the truth beyond the political bankruptcy. this country has been facing us imperialism since the 19th century, and particularly since the democratic rise to power of hugo chavez, following a decade of economic and social violence. this imperialism is much more real than the one you accuse russia of. our parliament has approved sanctions against russia for - i quote - destabilising ukraine. so why are those responsible for destabilizing venezuela not sanctioned by brussels? the methods of destabilisation are still the same as those used by the imperialists: insurrectionary strikes, incited violence, campaigns to denigrate the independent paid media and, to top it all off, an attempted coup d'état and the alternation outside the institutional framework. we must not add crisis to crisis, when we need mediation and truth. violence must be condemned wherever it comes from. we need humanitarian support and non-interference. it is a policy which we no longer practise because of a european policy which is itself becoming imperialist. all this forces us to rethink europe on a different institutional and solidarity basis.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr president of the commission, you have painted a picture of the european union which is not at all in keeping with the experience of our fellow citizens. no statistics can tell us exactly how the workers who have been thrown out onto the streets because we do not fight off-shoring feel about this union, or how the small farmers feel about the low prices and the end of milk quotas, or how the unemployed feel about the unemployment rate that is constantly being held up to their noses in order to make them feel better about being precarious and poor workers, or even less about the rate of growth which is in fact a growth in profits and pollution. we can put all the billions we want on this desk, how can it be perceived when there are so many people who have nothing to finish the month with 10 euros? this is the origin of the crisis of the european idea which is sweeping the continent like a wildfire. because we do not listen to the people, because the european union does not have an ideal of social and ecological humanism. the terrible cyclone that has just devastated the west indies, cuba and a part of the united states requires us to act energetically against the climate disruptions caused by transport and carbon-based energy, free trade agreements, such as the one with canada that you have just praised, mr president, but which is contrary to the options of the paris agreement. there is an urgent need to build a europe combining social and environmental progress in transport, energy, housing, urban renewal, agriculture and to help change production systems. this would create millions of jobs in europe, it would require new training, new research. this could be possible, not by creating a european monetary fund as you have just done, but by transforming the fund bearing your name, the juncker fund, into a large social and environmental development fund linked to the european central bank, to help states to get out of debt and launch innovative investment projects that create jobs, by developing public services, by launching new projects to secure the career paths of all europeans, starting with young people. in this respect, please accept the request of the greek government that training and apprenticeship programmes for the unemployed be eligible for the european regional social funds and the so-called juncker fund. it is urgent to get out of this europe of competition and division and to lay the foundations without delay for a social europe, with minimum wages, the elimination of precarious work for job security, the defence of social protection and pensions, the eradication of poverty by distributing wealth differently, a fair directive for posted workers, equality between men and women, more powers for employees in their companies. a social europe also means tax harmonization and the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. instead of the sickening debates on refugees and this shameful agreement with turkey and now libya, let us make a europe of solidarity, launch a pact for co-development with africa, with the maghreb and act for a middle east free of violence and war, where people can be masters of their own destiny. it is urgent to listen and to hear the peoples. democracy is knocking at the door, we all say, but we must act. let us ask the citizens what kind of europe they want. let us launch consultations and forums, from the municipalities and regions to the european institutions, as part of the general principles for the democratic, social and ecological refoundation of the european construction. the european union must also be heard in order to help resolve tensions and conflicts, and it must be an actor in nuclear disarmament in particular, and in the cause of peace. for this reason, it must not take the path of militarisation, as has just been proposed, but one which defends the works of life, that of education and culture. we want debate, mr president, real debate, to make the european union a force for social and ecological progress, a force for peace in democracy.
mr president, mr juncker, has this parliament found its place in your eyes, or do you still find it 'ridiculous' as you did last july? we already knew how little regard you had for the peoples of europe, and you showed that day how much contempt you have for their representatives. you are not only disrespecting the members of parliament, but also the heads of government of hungary, poland and slovakia, who are resisting your orders. mr juncker, you said earlier that 'europe is an ageing continent'. you announce that you want to create new legal pathways for extra-european immigration, even though it causes profound identity, security, economic and social disorders. you are trying to distinguish between legal immigration, which you encourage, and illegal immigration, which you claim to combat, but never have the means to do so. however, these two migrations do not cancel each other out but they are cumulative. we must give the peoples of europe back their confidence in the future by creating the conditions for their own demographic dynamism, giving them back control of their destiny and building a europe of cooperation. that is our vision, as opposed to yours, which is federalist, rigid and increasingly totalitarian.
madam president, mr president, our weakness is that we too often react, as in the case of the court of justice's judgment on singapore or the failure of multilateralism. we must above all react to a shift in globalisation characterised by the planning of our economy by foreign powers. dumping, hostile investment, acquisitions of strategic companies, increasingly strict rules for our companies abroad, unfair competition and a complete lack of reciprocity are all contributing factors. there was no agreement yesterday at the trilogue on the question of dumping. but the danger of such a tight timetable is that a mere postponement is seen as a failure. if it comes at the cost of the accuracy of our political message, particularly on the burden of proof, then it is not expensive. europe must protect itself without falling into protectionism. the message is clear. the uncertainty in our policies comes from our treaty which makes us walk on eggshells about our legal obligations. the ambitious draft regulation, which i have already read, should above all prevent us from stepping on our heads. we have lost time and, in reality, we are losing jobs, our know-how and our technological advancement to a country which, as we know, organises the investments of its public and private companies. we are not against foreign investment, but against foreign investment, which will make sure that our european products, and perhaps a future iphone from apple, will one day be 'designed' and assembled only in china!
madam president, mr president of the commission, i am disappointed. firstly, your commission of the last chance is entering its last useful year and while the left is not counting on it, you are not presenting us with a battle plan for the end of this mandate, but a vision of the future. - what's the deed? in this context, you are outlining a new european contract on which we can agree on a number of social, fiscal and public freedoms priorities. but to put words into action - as you said this morning - we would need a serious budget and this is my second disappointment. you have indicated your preference for a way out of the present budgetary impasse, but you are still on the doorstep. nothing on the desirability and urgency of breaking the 20% ceiling. nothing is clear on the urgency of integrating own resources, or on the advisability today of a tax on multinationals, which would have the virtue of fiscal justice and the virtue of filling two coffers: that of the european union and that of the member states. finally, i am disappointed in economic and monetary democracy. it does not matter whether it is an assembly of the euro zone or this assembly, which has new prerogatives, what we want is a parliament, because it is the democratic body that must be able to decide on economic choices, including challenging the austerity dogma, without limiting itself to being an ordo-liberal policeman.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i think i have been speaking for a little over an hour. it was difficult for you, but it was even more difficult for me because i suffer from very painful sciatica, which means that i have to rest a little and therefore i cannot answer you in detail. i would simply say that it would be wise for those concerned to join us in legislating on those points where the commission has already taken initiatives. in the social field, in particular, parliament and the council are faced with a whole series of proposals which i did not have to enumerate or describe to you because you are faced with these texts. it is not the commission that should be held responsible if the directive on posted workers has not yet been revised. we have made a proposal and we agree to continue this work, and what i say about the directive on posted workers i could say about other proposals as well. you will find it helpful to read the letter of intent which vice-president timmermans and i have sent to the president of parliament. the commission's intentions are described in detail and on many pages. we shall be closely associated with the council and parliament in the work which will lead us, by 24 october at the latest, to adopt the commission's work programme, a programme which i would like parliament to support with a harmonious resolution. finally, i would like to see a joint declaration by the presidents of the three institutions to conclude the year with regard to the programmes, intentions and ambitions. i thank you and i apologize for having to leave you. (applause) i would like to thank
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in the debate we had this morning, there was not the first hint of self-criticism about the effects of the austerity policies that have been imposed on the people. there is no way out of the european construction without a new social project. we have talked a lot about democracy, but i think that the combination of a single president of the commission and the council - it is not clear who would appoint him - and the transformation of the stability pact into a european monetary fund - given the role of the international monetary fund - are very worrying, since we are going to see both the centralisation of powers and greater control over the budgets of the member states, and therefore a strengthening of the same austerity. there is nothing good to be expected from this side and it is contrary to what is said elsewhere, that we want to make europe more democratic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'dieselgate' is a triple scandal: a state scandal, a health scandal and a democratic scandal. we've been sounding the alarm for two years. what did you do? i didn't say anything. have you sanctioned states that have protected their industry over the health of their citizens? no, you can't! have you remembered the 35 million "garbage vehicles" that are on our roads? no, you can't! have you sanctioned car manufacturers for violating pollution standards? no, you can't! have you compensated the european consumers who have been cheated? no, you can't! while in the united states volkswagen paid $22 billion for fraud, in europe they didn't pay a penny. look for the mistake... we collectively owe it to the 400 000 premature deaths caused by air pollution every year, to the workers in the automobile industry who are being sent to the wall with diesel fuel, to the taxpayers, because europe has lent manufacturers 13 million euros to make their vehicles clean. so, mr juncker, i tell you, i am tired of repeating the same thing in this house. i will not be an accomplice to a system that protects private interests over the public interest. mr juncker, you were right this morning: europe needs clean air and breathing, but breathing kills! so we're going to have to do something.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary committee of inquiry has established that the european commission was aware of possible fraud by the automobile industry but that it did not carry out any investigations into the matter. this raises the question of the weight of lobbies on the commission and the thresholds and standards set by the european union. the automotive industry has made enormous efforts and investments over the last 15 years to reduce vehicle pollution and we are all aware of the need for these changes, especially for health. however, she organized herself to circumvent the standards you set. let us ask ourselves why. has the union not overestimated the ability of manufacturers to adapt to the standards it imposes? the union must be careful not to impose unattainable binding standards which are eventually circumvented with the commission's own consent. the objectives, particularly environmental objectives, must not be utopian and must take account not only of the environment but also of the problems of our industries. let us ensure that incentives are put in place rather than constraints, and let us not forget that nation states are often best placed to take decisions and monitor their involvement.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, five months ago, in this very house, we voted on the recommendations of the emis committee, based on the conclusions of the parliamentary inquiry. this report contains several strong proposals both to prevent a new diesel scandal and to correct what we have already discovered. unfortunately, five months later we are meeting again to discuss a scandal which, far from being extinguished, has only grown. the european parliament was not sufficiently heard and this is regrettable. consumers are the big losers, we hear about repairs that don't work, that degrade the performance of the vehicles or, worse, that damage the engine parts, and the extra repairs are at the expense of the owners. the manufacturers do not even plan to compensate them for the damage suffered and it is the consumers who pay for the manufacturers' malpractices. president juncker wants equality in the application of consumer rights throughout europe and is happy about that. we therefore expect a proposal from the commission to harmonise the reparations and compensation of those who have been harmed by dieselgate, as we voted. the scandal continues mainly because the rules are still not properly applied and the only way to achieve this is to have deterrent sanctions. the ball is now in the court of the member states, while negotiations continue on the new european framework for vehicle approval and market surveillance. ideally, a dedicated european agency would be required. commissioner bieńkowska, you have told us, you have acknowledged that this is the best way to achieve this. as the trilogues have only just begun, there is still time to correct the situation in order to have strong european supervision.
in writing. this scandal shows that eu standards can be unenforceable despite praiseworthy intentions. the emis commission was set up in early 2016 with the volkswagen case and aimed to find out whether brussels or the member states were aware of the differences between european emission standards and the reality of emissions from engines of different european vehicle brands. the report of the committee of inquiry blames brussels and the member states for a lack of control over the practices of car manufacturers. however, most manufacturers would abuse the rule allowing them to reduce the efficiency of the pollution control systems in the event that they risk damaging the engine (article 5 of community regulation no 715/2007). the report also regrets that, while competition is free between national type-approval bodies, the eu does not have a supranational type-approval body. finally, the report of the commission of inquiry commended the compliance of american manufacturers with pollution standards comparable to european standards. the situation in the united states is not comparable, however, since the use of diesel is an ultra-minority among light vehicles. the nature of the strengthening of european standards in this area should therefore be kept in mind.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the solidarity i am going to talk about today is not that of mr juncker. the solidarity of mr juncker and the speech this morning did not reassure me about this boils down to this: others before ourselves. i think of solidarity in a very different way: our own people before others. and among our own people, the first to be defended are the weakest and most vulnerable, including the disabled. mr juncker's generosity and largesse towards migrants should put his supporters to shame, when we see how little attention our elites pay to the suffering of our own. the issue of accessibility in the broad sense must be a civilizational leap of solidarity towards our weakest and most vulnerable citizens: our children, our elderly, the disabled. this issue should not therefore be exploited for the political and financial objectives of the commission, which is trying to force the member states to adopt the single market more fully. the harmonization of the 28 member states is a utopia. only a strong and sovereign state can and must take care of its weakest citizens.
mr president, to complete on the technical side the remarks of my colleague mylène troszczynski on the accessibility directive, i would add that it is important to stress that the a priori legitimate harmonisation desired by the european union to make the daily life of a disabled person easier when travelling in his own country or in europe, may well, according to the proposed text, lead to the opposite of the intended result. by creating criteria that are too technical, too precise, too coercive, this text would become a permanent brake on all innovative companies, often start-ups developed in countries that, like france, have largely anticipated the development of it tools and accessibility services for all kinds of disabilities. conversely, other countries with less advanced technology will have a very difficult time keeping up. in sum, as always, behind a laudable idea there is probably an economic trap to capture the market, namely the 100 million disabled people who are expected to be more or less severely disabled by 2020. beware of the exploitation of disability.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, i hope you will listen to my speech. first of all, i must confess that we have serious doubts about the need, as the commission has said, to develop the financing of european enterprises through the financial, bond and stock markets. this is being organised at the expense of traditional bank financing, of european economies and at the expense of the competitiveness of european banks. in fact, a revision of the regulations on venture capital funds and social entrepreneurship funds, adopted only four years ago, still seems premature to us. these two new european labels should have been given time to develop gradually, as ucits funds did before. but no, there is urgency, according to the commission, which considers that the funds grouped under this label are not pan-european enough and would be too small. however, in the case of venture capital, managing a small number of projects is often a guarantee of success. small is beautiful. similarly, a thorough knowledge of local economic, social and regulatory conditions is often a prerequisite for successful capital investment. transnational fund managers are less efficient than nationally specialised venture capitalists. but we have another concern. this amendment to the regulations opens up the possibility of granting the label 'european venture capital fund' to managers of hedge funds, i.e. alternative funds within the meaning of the aifm directive. this is the main contribution of this text. this development distorts the original spirit of the 2013 regulation. the capital investment funds will thus find themselves drowned in the various strategies of the transnational alternative management giants. we are also concerned that the mandatory china walls between the different lines of investment and creation of securitised financial products are not respected within the large alternative managers. for these reasons, despite our support in principle for the development of venture capital, we shall abstain on this text. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr david coburn, i think we are, in political and economic terms, pretty much on the same page. we are conservatives, liberals in the hexagon, so in france, of course opposed to socialism, communism, all forms of economic extremism. we are simply pro-capitalist and of course we are in favour of venture capital, since the risk will be rewarded precisely by the performance. the only problem that the european union does not understand is that, before it existed, there were indeed venture capital markets to finance start-ups, innovative companies, etc., and of course the states did not wait for the european union to act and invest. that is all i wanted to say: this label is not necessarily good and that is why we are abstaining on this vote.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to say that on 6 september hurricane irma devastated several islands, including the french islands of saint-martin and saint-barthélemy. for many, a whole life and memories of a paradise were swept away in a matter of hours. the world has never known a cyclone of this violence, yet these northern islands have suffered many others. this demonstrates that these territories suffer from structural handicaps, which are also recognised by article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. this is an opportunity to emphasise the relevance of this derogating provision. my dear colleagues, the pictures tell us a lot about the scale of the disaster. eight days later, st. bartholomew and st. martin try to heal their wounds. it's time to rebuild. the time has come to return to water, electricity, the reopening of schools, the reconstruction of the building, all that is essential and can give hope to a whole population that is worried, that doubts and fears the future. these small parts of europe, far from the continent, must be able to count on european solidarity. i would like to commend president juncker and the european commissioner for humanitarian aid for the speed with which they have released €2 million in aid. the french government has just asked for the solidarity fund to be activated. commissioner, this emergency fund of €2 million for the period 2014-2020 has been halved compared to the previous budgetary programming. however, there is concern that climate change could increase the intensity and even the frequency of disasters that could trigger the use of the fund. hurricane irma is just one example. hence the absolute need to sanction this solidarity fund and to increase its appropriations in the future. it would be tragic if another disaster were to occur and the european union were unable to help one of its regions in distress. as the elected representative of these territories, i thank you for your attention and your attention.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, in st bartholomew and st martin, irma has in a few hours swept away decades of effort and plunged the people into the greatest disarray, people to whom we express our full sympathy. in the face of this unleashed force of nature, we must show humility and dignity, but we must also be clear about the time lost since the first ipcc reports for the adaptation of islands to extreme climatic phenomena that we know will increase with the climate changes that are already underway. if the question for us today is indeed that of european solidarity, of humanitarian emergency, and - as you said, commissioner - it was very quickly committed and it was expressed, we must also be in the time afterwards: that of the reconstruction of these devastated islands. not to rebuild by repeating the mistakes of the past, but to rebuild differently, differently, sustainably. to re-create islands by helping them to reinvent themselves even in their development model, otherwise these islands will be reborn to grow anew.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, last week the west indies were devastated by hurricane irma. our thoughts are with the bereaved families and those affected by this tragedy of unprecedented magnitude. it is obvious that the balance of this tragedy will have to be drawn in the member states concerned, particularly in france, where the french government has failed. funding for safer habitats, public buildings and infrastructure, capable of withstanding increasingly powerful cyclones, will also need to be considered. but the hour is not yet at the balance, the hour is at the emergency. urgent because the inhabitants are currently facing a shortage of drinking water, electricity and even food. but it is also urgent because the inhabitants have been plundered for several days by armed gangs. that is why our group tabled a motion for a resolution to mobilise the european union solidarity fund as soon as possible to help the islands affected by hurricane irma.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to express my deepest condolences to the families of the victims of hurricane irma and my solidarity and sympathy to the people affected. the damage to the french islands of saint martin and saint barthélemy is already extensive and it will take time to rebuild everything. in view of the urgency and the close links between the european union and these caribbean regions, irrespective of their status as outermost regions or overseas countries and territories, i call on the european union to continue and even strengthen its action in the region, given the enormous needs. the european union, through the solidarity fund for the french region of saint-martin and through the reserve b of the 11th edf for the community of saint-barthélemy, or for the dutch octs of sint maarten and anguilla, must help the victims of this hurricane, whose violence is unprecedented in the region. it is crucial that all the directorates-general concerned - i am thinking in particular of dg regio, devco and echo - mobilise and coordinate their actions so that the european union's response is as effective as possible in territories which, like st. maarten, have a dual status: frg on the french side and octs on the dutch side. these different statutes should in no way influence the european union's response. we have a duty to rescue and help our fellow citizens.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, this will be very quick. i have indeed co-signed with my colleague mr van miltenburg a letter to mr juncker with a proposal, commissioner, which is of interest to you. we voted this morning to release €1.2 billion for the earthquake in italy on 24 august. this vote was carried out in the face of general indifference. you have a unique opportunity to give an idea of the envelope that the european union will develop for saint martin and saint barthélemy, so that our citizens realize that the european union knows how to show solidarity and say so when it is interesting.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ulrike rodust, for her excellent work and, as i said in the debate on the multiannual plan for the baltic sea, a multiannual plan is a good tool for fishermen. it responds to the urgent need for visibility and stability, which is an insufficient but necessary condition for the economic and social sustainability of any economic activity. another condition for the sustainability of fishing activity is the sustainable management of the resource. the implementation of the maximum sustainable yield (msy) in line with the level of tacs (total allowable catches) has already produced spectacular results for fish stocks, with 52% of north sea stocks being managed sustainably and having reached the msy - and we do not say this enough, commissioner - and the results are even better in the north-east atlantic. that is why i do not understand, in addition to the question of legality just raised by mr mato, in addition to the question of the principle of equality which would be affected in relation to the baltic plan, i do not understand the over-bid of the last few hours on the rmd. i am referring to amendments nos 80 and 85, tabled by the alde group, and i say this frankly, i really do not understand you. we have an ambitious common fisheries policy based on an mdg that is helping to combat overfishing in europe, and it is at a time when we should be satisfied that you choose to distil doubt in europeans by asking for more and more. on the other hand, i would like to welcome the rapporteur's initiative, which has taken recreational fishing into account, and i support her position, provided, however, that future quotas allocated to recreational fishing are properly calculated on the basis of historical catches of this fishery and not on the basis of quotas for commercial fishing, which would thus suffer a double penalty. finally, these north sea fishing areas are particularly sensitive in the context of brexit, as we have just heard. they are in fact adjacent to or integrated into the united kingdom. the plan should also serve as a roadmap for future friendly cooperation between the union and third countries in the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the erasmus programme, my colleagues in the committee on culture and education wanted to ask the commission about the future of this programme. this question was prompted in particular by the commission's announcement that this flagship programme will also be used to finance new initiatives, such as the european solidarity corps, the relevance of which has yet to be proven. while i share some of the concerns of my colleagues, particularly that the effectiveness of erasmus is being threatened by having it cover ever more political objectives, i would like to widen the field of inquiry. as the newspaper le monde pointed out in an article on 29 august, despite its relative success, erasmus still benefits the majority of socially disadvantaged young people. if this social divide is now known, i am also concerned about the commission's tendency to see mobility as the only solution to the problem of unemployment. that vision seems wrong to me. mobility for the sake of mobility leads to nothing. according to the article in le monde, only mobility to prestigious institutions, for example, will benefit young people when they enter the world of work. mobility as an end in itself leads ultimately only to brain drain and uprooting, which is the source of identity anxieties. it seems to me that the reflection on the future of erasmus+ should therefore focus on these two issues: the development of opportunities for deserving students who are less privileged, especially those in rural and peripheral areas, and finally a necessary reflection on the issue of brain drain and the challenge of continuing to make our territories attractive for young europeans so that mobility does not become the executioner of rural life.
in writing. on 14 september 2017, the european parliament supported a series of wishes in the area of competences. on the menu, catalogues of recycled measures and an old dish dear to brussels: 'newcomers bring new skills with them'. in truth, beyond the 'molenbeek effect', our future does not depend on 'non-europeans'. the employment rate of 'non-europeans' was only 51% in france in 2016, or one in two 'non-europeans' (sic macron). obviously these new skills are not transferable. the commission's 'third-country national profiling tool' is not even available in the languages spoken by all migrants. the waste of €155 billion from the european social fund (esf) is demonstrated: out of 30 million participants, 21 million did not find a job after their training. revitalising europe will require european preference and the launching of new industries. airbus was born out of cooperation between states (germany, france, great britain) in may 1967, outside the european union and without the intervention of the brussels commission.
author. madam president, cambodia is one of the countries for which this european parliament regularly denounces human rights violations. and rightly so, because things are going very badly there, as we have already said. however, in the spirit of the indivisibility of human rights, i would like us to denounce all violations of human rights as strongly and to have the same concern for economic and social rights as for civil and political rights. in cambodia, where corruption is rampant, land grabbing is wreaking havoc and multinationals, particularly european ones, are delighted: 56% of the land has been grabbed and 830 000 people are affected. the international criminal court has been seized. this causes massive population displacement and increases poverty in a part of the world that does not need it. the case of tep vanny is a good example of the repression that weighs on those who denounce all this. tackling the root causes of migration is also one of these, particularly in this region of the world most affected by displacement.
author. mr. president, the presidential elections were indeed held in august 2016, about a year ago. there is no doubt that these were marked by serious fraud, denounced by several observers, including the union mission. and the announcement of the results was followed by violence that left too many dead. since our resolution last february, the situation has hardly changed. so it is a sad anniversary that we commemorate here. violence, arrests of opposition activists and now even travel bans on its leaders, including mr ping. the silence, or even the implicit support of the international community and particularly france, seems to give ali bongo wings. that is why, while supporting the resolution, we reject paragraph 9. the gabonese unfortunately know that they cannot rely on france and that, far from playing a constructive role, successive governments in my country unfortunately protect the financial interests of the ruling clan.
mr president, madam high representative, 2009 and 2016, two rigged elections, two stolen elections by ali bongo and still the deaths, the hundreds of victims, the suppressed opposition, persecuted, the civil society and the media suppressed. this violence, this mocking of democracy, is political corruption which undermines, which destroys coexistence and which destroys the cohesion of society. it is not by chance, of course, that this political corruption is backed up, nourished by economic corruption. too many gabonese, european and french political and economic leaders are, in turn, corrupt and corrupting in this matter. if words have meaning in this house, in the treaties, in the cotonou agreement, the european union must do everything possible to ensure that democracy is established and it must implement sanctions for the perpetrators of abuses and crimes. we owe it to the credibility of this parliament, we owe it to the gabonese and, above all, we owe it to the gabonese youth who have such an appetite for life, such an appetite for freedom, and who cannot be built on resentment towards us and towards themselves.
mr president, madam high representative, naturally i support the part of the resolution which reminds the gabonese state of its obligations and responsibilities. i would like to express, as many here do, my disapproval of the rigging that has marred the elections. it is necessary, madam high representative, that europe, everywhere in the world, affirms its will to promote both democracy and human rights. the african peoples are particularly affected, tired and disappointed by so much electoral sham, when the issues that are vital to them should be at the heart of politics: food issues, energy issues, land use planning and ecological threats. ali bongo, like others, cannot escape the verdict of the people to remain in power at any cost and to channel the country's wealth to his exclusive benefit.
author. mr president, an entire population rendered stateless in its own country is being slowly, silently decimated. silence kills and we have a responsibility to act by naming atrocities, denouncing them, condemning them. yes, let us condemn the abuses, discrimination and crimes against the muslim minority of the rohingya, which are being encouraged by the burmese ultranationalist movements and perpetrated by the army. let us denounce the guilty passivity of the government and in particular of the nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi, who also won the sakharov prize and who has now become unworthy of the prize we have awarded her. so let us adopt the joint resolution calling for an end to these massacres.
in writing. the united nations has published that in less than two weeks, 370,000 rohingya have fled the atrocities of the burmese army to seek refuge in bangladesh and more than 400 have been killed. the united nations calls the repression by the burmese military "ethnic cleansing". we must act as soon as possible. calls on the union to engage urgently in dialogue with the burmese authorities to put an end to this inhumane situation, to protect civilians and to restore respect for human rights; the refusal of access to humanitarian aid by the burmese authorities is a violation of international law. the union must do everything in its power to ensure that humanitarian organisations can help the displaced. as vice-chair of the committee on international trade, i am opposed to keeping a delegation of parliamentarians in burma to discuss trade and investment. i have asked the chairman of this committee about this. finally, it is unbearable to see aung san suu kyi, a former nobel prize and sakharov prize winner, deny the accusations of ethnic cleansing and remain deafeningly silent. the possibility of withdrawing the sakharov prize from him must be seriously considered.
the rapporteur. mr president, we are not here to reopen a substantive debate, we are asking for authorization to enter into interinstitutional negotiations on a text which has been the subject of broad agreement in the committee on foreign affairs and which is also based on a broad compromise. i would remind you, however, that the text we are discussing is the result of an initiative launched by the high representative in december 2013, that a lot of time has been lost and that the outcome of the negotiations we are about to start is being awaited with great urgency by european missions deployed in mali, somalia and the central african republic, which need the funding we are about to offer them.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to support the remarks made by mrs rodrigues on behalf of the socialist group and say that for our group, the epp, there are still fundamental principles to be respected. i would like to remind you that the european union has never agreed to interfere in referendums held in a member state, and even more so when it is an unconstitutional referendum. what is important, however, is to remember the fundamental principles of the union: that the law must be respected and applied. that is why i, on behalf of the ppe group, support the socialist group's proposal put forward by mrs rodrigues, and we insist that it be entitled 'the constitution, the rule of law and fundamental rights in spain in the light of the events in catalonia'.
mr president, i do not think any of the proposed titles are appropriate, for the very simple reason that each of them actually prejudges the content of the debate. if you are talking about violence, of course, we are looking for a condemnation of the spanish state. if you're talking about the rule of law, we're going to assume that the rule of law has been violated. who raped him? there are events happening in catalonia. either everyone comes to this debate with preconceived ideas, and has no intention of changing them, and in that case, this debate is of no use. either the debate must be, as i personally believe, genuinely open, in which case it must be opened on the events that have taken place in catalonia or on the situation in catalonia; i think that's quite enough.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation is intended to implement the agreement of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, to which the european union has been a contracting party since 1997, whether mr hookem likes it or not. this agreement covers some 30 species of tuna in the atlantic and adjacent seas, which means that it is important for the management, conservation and control of fisheries resources in accordance with the principles of the common fisheries policy. so on paper, everything seems perfect. except that this is not the 2016 agreement, the most recent, but the 2008 agreement. we are transposing a text that is more than nine years late. the commission has presented us with a draft transposition, which is not only nine years old, but also partly obsolete, since a new iccat agreement was negotiated in 2016. so, when it comes to managing a valuable resource, both economically and ecologically, when stocks have collapsed or improved depending on the species, and when, above all, the common fisheries policy is based on the best and most recent scientific knowledge, brussels bases its regulation on data that are ten years old. that is why, at the request of the socialist group, heard by the rapporteur, whom i thank, the committee on fisheries unanimously adopted the attached resolution condemning this unacceptable situation, which excludes swordfish in particular. of course, once again, and i am addressing myself to you, commissioner, so that this is not the case, the commission may propose a delegated act to update this regulation, which is democratically more than questionable. i would like to end by recalling that i had tabled amendments to include small-scale fisheries, proposing that they could have access to the bluefin tuna quota without jeopardising relative stability. to facilitate the compromise, the old formulations have been used and it is therefore regrettable that this issue, which is sensitive on our coasts, has not been taken into account in the final agreement. delays and lack of discussion are detrimental to interinstitutional dialogue, even though i support the rapporteur and his proposal.
stand up because we almost got a blue card from mr. iturgaiz on mr. coburn, but now, mr. coburn would like to ask you a question, mr. millán mon, do you agree?
mr. coburn, you're not going to insult him?
mr. coburn, this has nothing to do with the debate. you promised not to insult him, but you also had to stay in the debate. excuse me, but for now, i'm the chairman. so we're staying in the debate.
the point is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. as the conservation of marine biological resources is an exclusive eu policy, there is no choice for member states but to act within this framework (or to leave the eu as greenland did in 1985). this legislation contributes not only to the conservation of fish stocks in the atlantic and the mediterranean, but also to the protection of turtle and seabird species threatened by industrial fishing. unfortunately, the states are responsible for many controls, which is a considerable administrative burden.
the agenda calls for the report by anna hedh on the economic empowerment of women in the private and public sectors in the union (2017/2008 (ini)) (a8-0271/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the report by teresa jiménez-becerril barrio on the shrinking space for civil society in developing countries (2016/2324(ini) (a8-0283/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 october 2017. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
madam president, commissioner, cybercrime is the new threat, and it is just beginning. the latest petya and wannacry attacks have dramatically demonstrated, first, the vulnerability of our systems; second, the speed at which these attacks spread; and third, and most importantly, our critical lag in the effectiveness and timeliness of cybercriminals in this area. the report - and i welcome the content of it - by my colleague elissavet addresses a number of priorities, she said. i'll take three. first, resilience and resilience. the protection of infrastructure, networks and content, including encryption, must be strengthened. then the answer. the authorities must be equipped with human and budgetary resources, as they are beginning to be out of date. finally, citizens must be made more aware of their behaviour. i take this opportunity to welcome the month of october, which is european cybersecurity month. in this respect, it is not a gadget.
madam president, commissioner, in march 2017, the european commission adopted its action plan for the development of retail financial services. the action plan recommends the massive use of new digital technologies, fintechs, to develop citizens' access to cross-border financial services. the plan is based in particular on the eidas regulation, which requires member states to do two things: first, each country must have an eid system for its citizens in place by 29 september 2018, and second, each country will automatically accept the eid systems of other states. the commission's objective is to enable, for example, a citizen in spain, on the basis of his spanish electronic identity, to have a bank account in latvia, without having to travel to that country. i would like to point out two important problems: the plan contributes to reducing the ability of states to protect their own citizens, and in the area of financial services it increases the risk of massive fraud. for example, we learned that the electronic identity system in estonia had recently been hacked. that is why we shall abstain.
madam president, duck farming in the south-west of france is not just a tourist attraction, it is also a structuring reality of the regional economy and the territorial network. yet today, 30,000 direct jobs and 100,000 indirect jobs are at risk. since 2015 and the start of avian influenza outbreaks, things have only gotten worse. in 2017, four million animals were slaughtered preventively, which means months of sanitary vacuum for more than 1,000 municipalities, and a year without any income for some producers. a slow death ! the compensation granted is not up to par and anger grows, feeding on the injustice of the situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the common agricultural policy. i am a proponent of the precautionary principle and aware of the new standards and controls that need to be put in place, but this means helping producers to implement these changes and to secure their holdings against avian influenza, as they face the combined pressure of late cap payments, new standards, containment measures and testing costs. what i am asking you today is first of all to take responsibility for the preservation of our heritage, to make a clear commitment and to ensure lasting solutions... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in this resolution you are demanding that the british respect the free movement of individuals and respect the decisions of the european court of justice. we understand that the european union is seeking to make the british people pay for their legitimate desire for freedom and the return of their sovereignty. for, let us remember what happened: as soon as article 50 of the treaty was triggered, we were confronted with an avalanche of summonses and threats from a european union in disarray. in reality, the european union is afraid, afraid that the united kingdom will do better outside the union than inside, which, of course, could encourage other member states to follow this path towards national sovereignty. the negotiations are a real blackmail, an unbearable blackmail, but brexit will have had at least this merit: that of showing the true face of an undemocratic european union incapable of respecting the will of the peoples because you cannot negotiate with a revolver in your head.
madam president, we were against brexit, but the british people voted for it. so, mr president of the commission, until 29 march 2019, the british people remain members of the european union, and it is your duty as president of the commission to ensure that the legislation is fully implemented. firstly, the rights of citizens, who are all too often discriminated against even before the uk leaves. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the united kingdom has become the centre of fraud involving imports from china. finally, the situation in gibraltar, which seems to have become a straw for banking licences and insurance captives. and then, a new element has recently emerged: the 'transition phase'. for once, i'll surprise you, i agree with mr weber. we should not have to bring everything back to this transitional phase before it is even effective. the transition will be when we have reached an agreement: 1) on the terms of the divorce, and 2) on the terms of the future relationship. that's the right sequence. we have to stick to it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in just 420 days' time the divorce agreement, negotiated by michel barnier, should be adopted by the twenty-seven and voted on by our parliament, which will have the last word. but what do we see at 420 days from this crucial deadline? once again, a british political class, which is no more up to the challenge than its own people, is only concerned with its own belly button. his problem is not the future of britain, otherwise britain would have stayed in europe. nor is its problem the european union, or a supposed supranational technocracy that exists only in their fantasies. no, the only obsession of this narcissistic and cynical political class is to devise plans to maintain or win back majority votes within their own political parties. it does not matter if it means lying, denying and betraying itself by inciting some dangerous populists if necessary. we have to tell him to stop! those who think, in britain and elsewhere, that the future is to reject the other because one is too rich to be solidarity and too proud to be brotherhood, are deceiving their people. for it is not more wealth or independence they will find at the end of the road, but more poverty and isolation. my dear british colleagues, you have a few days left to have the courage to stop this senseless process. if you don't have that courage, then at least find the courage of the light and stop your procrastination of which you are the only victims. in is in, and out is out.
madam president, what i wanted to say is quite simple. when you type certain keywords into google -- i'm not going to quote them because they're very simple words -- the first results that come up are the newspapers of al qaeda, al nusra front or islamic state. what do you find in these papers? it contains calls to murder and information on how to assassinate someone, how to make a bomb and how to encrypt their communications. if a single paper newspaper were published and put on sale at a bookseller with such content, the bookseller and the publisher would obviously be condemned, and the newspaper would be banned. but nothing happens digitally. there is total impunity for digital broadcasters. what we want is very simple. if we are to fight crime, all those who spread content inciting murder must be indicted, prosecuted and punished. because these publications are the same, whether in printed or digital form. this is a matter of common sense, and if we do not do this, let us not complain when the next bombing occurs!
, on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, i already knew that europe could be the victim of economic war, because of the principle of competition, which implies war. i now know, and i see it every day, that europe is also political warfare in the name of human rights, the rule of law or democracy, with a very ambivalent and, depending on the country, evolving usage. this does not strengthen integration or peace, but leads to a division of varying geometry, particularly vis-à-vis the unilaterally designated enemy that would be russia. should there be checks on the moldovan border between ukraine and transnistria? should a nato information office be set up? do we need foreign-funded ngos to question moldovan democracy at any time? and then there is the corruption: there has never been a system as corrupt as this one. so what is your policy, commissioner? explain it to me!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, yes to a european moldova, yes to a moldova in the europe of nations, in partnership with russia. today you want to turn moldova into ukraine. that's a good scenario that nobody wants. moldova is an independent and sovereign country, and it is not you romanians who are going to ignore this fact of history. moldova is a large nation, even though its population is only three million. today the european union wants to initiate reforms for moldova, instead of moldova. it has therefore planned to spend €2.8 million on administrative and territorial reform. i believe that the sovereignty of nations must be respected. moldova is an independent state, a state between east and west, a state which, of course, must be asked to agree to its participation. today, it is true that moldova, together with its president, mr dodon, has refused to take part in nato commitments. i personally believe that the sovereignty of this state must be respected.
mr president, like ukraine, moldova is torn between the european union and russia. it is our duty to do everything we can to ensure that it recognises itself in european values, and our aid must contribute to this. electoral law, democracy and the independence of the judiciary are clearly part of these values. the single party is not part of our concept of democracy, but we must also promote the economic development of moldova, which has valuable mineral resources, and fight poverty. i believe that this will be the starting point for the awakening of the moldovan people. while we must not interfere directly in the governance of moldova, we must bring these values to the people and i think we would be well advised to ensure that some of this aid is devoted to media pluralism. in any case, moldova cannot become a new crimea.
in writing. we were surprised by the amount of budget allocated to moldova (€1 billion over 10 years, or €100 million per year), in a country of 3 million inhabitants... we were surprised by such an amount, even though our member states badly need this budget, and even though the eu is imposing austerity here and there... the commission's reply to our written question, given by mr hahn on 6 september 2017, was a first line of thought: 'before granting the aid, satisfactory compliance with a wide range of political conditions (...) will be taken into account', that is to say, allow me to give a political translation: 'if you want this money, accept our intrusion into your sovereignty'! for example, christos stylianides stressed the need for reform of the judiciary, a sector that is particularly important to the king. in addition, some of my colleagues' speeches constitute a second line of action: that of an increasingly irrational struggle against russia. we are in favour of a moldova in a europe of nations without interference in its sovereignty, as we explained during the vote in july.
, on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, children are our future and as such they must be protected. child marriage is a violation of their rights. the united nations convention on the rights of the child states in article 3 that 'in all decisions taken by an authority, the best interests of the child shall be a primary consideration'. marrying a child is therefore clearly contrary to the child's best interests, which are to build up and to enjoy, as far as possible, the protection of a family environment until he or she reaches the age of majority. in addition to the violation of this basic right, the wasted future life of these children, there are about 70 000 deaths per year due to pregnancy or childbirth and a tremendous mortality rate of the children of these children. it is important to remember that child marriage is a long-standing social norm in these countries, often developing. but what can you do? as you say in your text, it is good to fight this phenomenon in cooperation with third countries, provided that we do not go beyond the framework of cooperation and do not fall into interventionism. you admit that with the migration crisis, the number of children already married in europe is increasing, and yet you persist in your crazy immigration and reception policy.
mr president, commissioner, this resolution will not be enough without a strong political signal. the figures are known, the legal instruments for protecting children exist, so why do we always have to face this terrible reality? child marriages are still forced. always! i know. it is the notion of consent that i would like to emphasize because it is the big loser in our debates. when can we say that a marriage is freely consented to by a terrified girl? from what point onwards is the first sexual intercourse permitted when the same girl has to prove her fertility and virginity? do not these unequal circumstances demonstrate the astonishing constraint? silence cannot be consent. therefore, commissioner, i ask you to launch a european initiative on the notion of consent for girls and women in general, in order to put an end to the national disparities and the lack of protection of european legislation. finally, i would like to say to my colleagues opposite that one in three child marriages takes place in developed countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to combat child marriage, but we must also be logical. this proposal recalls that these children often drop out of school. surprisingly, she proposes to focus on education. but if these children have been forced to leave school, we will not stop this phenomenon by means of education. the proposal states that child marriage is not exclusive to third countries. we're being assigned! but it also links the issue of immigration, linking the migrant crisis to child marriages abroad. how mobility is not always liberating! at no point does she mention the question of integration. this is what is required of the populations that practice such practices. which assimilate our manners. this integration cannot succeed with the current flow. the proposal, which cannot challenge the unconditional and unlimited acceptance of migrants, goes so far as to encourage the evolution of the customs of third countries through education. what can be done to cure the root of the problem? perhaps we should start by not bringing this evil to our soil.
mr president, egypt is a pole of stability on a mediterranean on the brink of collapse. tunisia is recovering from the so-called arab spring, libya is a ghost state, algeria is preparing for a heavy transition of threats. commissioner, you talk about security and development, and you add human rights. beware of human rights that go against security and development because in the end, you will have neither security, nor development, nor human rights. it is also irresponsible to want to destabilise egypt in the name of human rights, while its government is fighting as best it can against the fundamentalism of the muslim brotherhood. we are, like many muslim countries, at war with islamic totalitarianism. that must be clear to us. in this war, men like marshal al-sissi, general haftar or bashar al-assad are strongholds for european countries, and those who would destabilize them are accomplices of terrorism and enemies of europe.
, on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, minister, the paris agreement is irreversible and non-negotiable. this is the message we are sending to the president of the united states in our joint resolution on cop 23. the announcement of the us withdrawal from the paris agreement finally galvanised the other 194 signatories at cop 21 and, since 1 june, heads of state and government from around the world have been reaffirming their commitment to keep the global temperature rise between 2.4 and 6.6 degrees by 2050. commissioner, we believe that the european union is the new leader the world needs to effectively combat climate change. we therefore encourage you to address the following seven priorities at cop23 in bonn: the creation of innovative financing to combat climate change, with the fixing of a floor price for a tonne of carbon and the reform of the european carbon trading system; the establishment of a genuine circular economy and the boosting of renewable energies; the abolition of subsidies to the fossil fuel sector, which will eventually lead to the phase-out of fossil fuels; the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the implementation of this regulation and the rules for the implementation of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 4 of this regulation. the implementation of the financial commitment of developed countries to provide usd 100 billion per year to developing countries by 2020; promoting universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries, particularly in africa, which has incredible renewable energy potential, which is currently untapped; the impact of climate change on migration and the international recognition of climate refugee status. if you, commissioner, tackle these seven priorities, as we are doing in bonn, cop23 will be a success.
mr president, commissioner, we have had it all this year: droughts, floods, fires and hurricanes that it would be time to rename exxon, total, bp or trump! obviously, we need the paris agreement, but the paris agreement is two things: diplomacy, with an ambitious, serious target of 1.5 or 2 degrees, but it is also climate action and, on this point, climate action by states, today, it is 3, 4, 5 degrees of global warming. therefore, it is chaos. our topic is to move from diplomacy to climate action because that's where all the schizophrenics come in. my president of the republic, emmanuel macron, the president of france, guarantor of the paris agreement, gives a magnificent speech on climate at the united nations, but at the european level, as you know, he is sabotaging renewable energy targets and he is sabotaging european cooperation strategies on climate action. yes, the good news is that the european union must lead on climate action. the good news is that the european union has all the elements: cheap renewable energy, jobs created, land use planning. so for the european union to become the leader in climate action is good for the climate and a great project for all europeans.
mr president, commissioner, it is good to pat each other on the shoulder and congratulate each other on a job well done. from cop to cop, the european union is often portrayed as being at the forefront of the climate fight. and yet, what do we see? that some 3x20 targets will not be met, that the ets system, even revised for phase 4, will remain far too generous for polluters, not ambitious enough to meet targets and will generate a co2 price far too low to reorient priorities. that the ftt, which some thought could finance the green fund, has still not come into being. and yet, what do we hear? the stiglitz report calls for a price for all global emissions of between 50 and 100 dollars by 2030, but we are a long way from that. so we need urgent measures, and i have been advocating for a long time for the introduction of carbon adjustment at the borders, for example, but it has been talked about for so long and nothing has been done. this lack of political will is reinforced by the comfort of thinking that we are doing better than others. we all know talleyrand's formula: "when i look at myself, i am sad, when i compare myself, i am consoled", but let us beware, because if we are all desolate, it is our children and grandchildren who will be desolate.
, on behalf of the green/efa group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ryanair flight cancellations are yet another provocation by the low-cost airline. some 400 000 passengers are penalized because of poor scheduling management. but that's a joke! this airline clearly makes passengers a variable of adjustment. i say this as i see it: it is no longer low cost, it is zero service. in the face of such actions, i ask the european commission to ensure that ryanair complies with european legislation on passenger rights, but also to consider sanctions because it will not stop there. ryanair has just announced that it will be cancelling 18 000 new flights by next march. this episode highlights the limitations of the low-cost model, which is not good for the planet, for employees or for consumers. it is high time that the european union realised this and stopped encouraging low cost, social dumping and the subsidies it receives. therefore, let us strengthen passenger rights, let us make them clearer, but let us also create a mechanism for sanctions against airlines.
mr president, commissioner, this is unfortunately not the first time that we have pointed the finger at the anti-social practices of the ryanair airline. today we are again denouncing the abusive practices of this airline in respect of passenger rights: 2,000 flights cancelled today, and 20,000 tomorrow, as a logical consequence of the failure to take into account the holiday obligations of pilots and crew. this case illustrates the limitations of business models that push employees to the limit. passenger rights and workers' rights are two sides of the same coin in the fight to improve the quality of service. the european union can act on both of these issues. in 2014, our parliament adopted a proposal for a regulation to extend passengers' rights to compensation and assistance. it is high time that the council adopted its position so that this new regulation can enter into force. in addition, in accordance with the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 14 september against ryanair, a better definition of the principal place of business is essential to prevent companies from employing their staff under social conditions prevailing in countries other than their base of operations. european legislation must reinforce these decisions to better protect the workers concerned.
in writing. while the low-cost airline had already announced on 17 september last year that it would cancel 2 100 flights, ryanair has just decided to cancel more than 18 000 flights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. this is unacceptable. european travellers are held hostage by ryanair's poor personnel management policy. our priority must be to ensure that european law and passenger rights are respected. the european commission must ensure that ryanair does not exonerate itself from its responsibilities and complies with the 2004 european legislation on the protection of passenger rights. passengers should have full access to information on compensation and all available re-routing options. the cancellations are a reminder of the need to unblock at council level the discussions on the revision of the passenger rights rules on which parliament gave its position in 2014. there is an urgency, the european union and the member states must act.
, on behalf of the epp group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for almost eight years we have been asking the european commission for criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors. finally, we have a proposal which is not perfect, but at least has the merit of being there. it not only takes up the who definition of endocrine disruptors, but above all it puts the european union once again at the forefront of health and environmental protection. endocrine disruptors are everywhere - in furniture, clothing, packaging, containers and food products. it is therefore essential to set strict criteria based on scientific evidence. we can't wait any longer. moreover, this proposal will replace the legislation currently in force, which is outdated and no longer meets the challenges we face today. we must ensure an ever higher level of protection for citizens. this requires advancing with the technical and scientific knowledge at our disposal and it is therefore essential to encourage research and innovation in this area. however, it is the industrialists, smes and smes who develop research and innovation. they therefore need clear guidance to know which way to go and to be able to design safer products for the future. if we reject the commission's proposal and adopt this objection, we will retain the current legislation and go back to negotiations which may take another ten years. this is not a step backwards, as some have suggested, but a step forward towards the introduction of one of the strictest laws in the world.
mr president, commissioner, commissioner for health, a few days ago the european parliament closed its doors to monsanto, because monsanto does not simply despise our health, monsanto despise our democracy. for eight years now, the commission has been leaving the door open to all lobbies for chemicals, pesticides and so on on endocrine disruptors. for eight years you have been disregarding our health and we are constantly obliged to remind you of your prerogatives and democracy. so today, now that it has been established that you are going beyond your prerogatives, that you are going beyond your powers, you are right to mention that the member states are not clear on this subject, and i myself deeply regretted france's retreat on this subject, but it is your responsibility to be the guarantor of the laws that are adopted, including in this parliament. you read them every day, the studies that warn of the dangers. so tomorrow, for health reasons, for democracy reasons, we will reject your criteria so that you can do your job again, for health and for democracy!
mr president, commissioner, history is repeating itself endlessly. the commission is not taking action on vital health problems, such as endocrine disruptors, and is therefore condemned for its inaction. then it takes action, but the result is poor and inadequate. serious derogations are granted to make it clear that large companies, large multinational chemical companies, can continue to pollute us. but you tell us, "take it or leave it", and if you don't accept our offer, then you'll have nothing. so this is not only about people's health, but it's about democracy. in short, we, who have been elected by the peoples of europe, would not have the legitimacy to ask you, the european executive, to do a very simple thing, namely to withdraw your proposal and present us with a new one. that is your role, and that is what you owe today to the peoples of europe and to us, who have been elected by the citizens of europe. so, whether it is on the issue of health, which is seriously endangered, all the scientists say, by endocrine disruptors - and we know that your current proposal on the subject is insufficient, even dangerous - or whether it is on the issue of democracy, today you are completely wrong. that is why we are going to vote against this objection and we are asking you to be responsible and to make us a new proposal which this time meets our expectations, particularly as regards the health of our fellow european citizens.
mr president, commissioner, you said that health and the environment must be protected. if we are where we are today, if we are making this objection, it is first of all because of the commission. the first time, in 2013, you had to set criteria. in 2015, these criteria were still not set. the matter had to be referred to the european court of justice. now, we don't agree with your definition. why would you do that? because you're making an exemption on products that are manufactured to be endocrine disruptors. legal services says you're overstepping your rights. i therefore say to my colleagues: if we vote today on this definition which does not satisfy endocrinologists at international level, we will have it throughout the legislation because it will be a reference. we must not be complicit in a definition which does not correspond to the protection of health and the environment. the commissioner therefore has to reconsider this definition. you must not be complicit in a system where the chemical lobbies are pushing for this derogation. i would like to ask you to look at your copy because the fact that we are here today and are fighting so much is in the interest of european citizens and not in the interest of the private sector.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, colleagues, this report on the inspection system for ro-ro ferries and ferries is an opportunity to recall the terrible accident which took place at 1 a.m. on 28 september 1994 between tallinn and stockholm. on that day, in less than ten minutes, an uncontrolled opening of the cargo doors allowed water to enter the ferry estonia, which sank, killing 852 people. it's the deadliest passenger ship accident in europe after the titanic, and it happened less than 23 years ago. and this is not an isolated incident. a few years earlier, 193 people had died in a similar disaster off the port of zeebruges. and four years ago, 454 children died in a ferry sinking off the coast of south korea. in 2015, ports in the european union recorded 395 million maritime passengers. this is a considerable number, which is why it is essential that the safety of these passengers is ensured to the highest standards. this directive on a system of inspection for the safe operation of regular services of ro-ro ferries and high-speed passenger craft is an amendment to the port state control directive, which becomes the reference directive, and at the same time repeals the directive on a system of mandatory visits specific to ro-ro ferries. the first exercise was to simplify, rationalise and concentrate existing standards. we then strengthened and clarified the regulation, the key elements of the report being: clarification of responsibilities between the port state and the flag state avoiding duplication and legal loopholes; definition of the competent authority of the member state; clarification of the periodicity of inspections, which must take place twice a year, including one in operation, and every four to eight months. another new feature is that inspections of rolling stock and high-speed passenger craft are to be considered as a top priority in the annual inspection quota of the member states. an article on the consideration of risks to passengers and crew has been added to include an additional human element in these inspections. a commission wording allows delegated acts to be adopted, where necessary, under appropriate conditions. finally, we have an agreement on reinspections in the event of a change of ship's assignment. finally, a database will be set up to enable information to be exchanged as quickly as possible during ongoing inspections between member states. let me thank all the fictitious rapporteurs of the committee on transport and tourism for their work and excellent cooperation, the director-general of the european commission for his support and expertise, and of course the maltese presidency for its cooperation, its ambition to implement this triple directive and its ability to respond to the remarks and requests of the european parliament. in june last year, we quickly reached agreement on this directive in a trilogue. i hope that it will receive a massive vote in our parliament.
member of the commission. – mr president, passenger ships play a key role in the mobility of our citizens as well as being a holiday experience. with more than 200 million passengers embarking from european union ports each year, their safety is at the heart of our common transport policy. the vote in this house will make our safety rules clearer, more proportionate and better fit for purpose. the three directives on passenger and ship safety that we are debating today were put in place 20 years ago to provide for a common level of safety and to remove barriers to trade. it was now high time to ensure that these objectives are improved upon in view of the implementation of experience and technological progress. we can only applaud the constructive and positive approach of the co—legislators that made it possible to reach a compromise in one month. this clearly shows that the safety of european union citizens is our principal and shared objective. the new legal act can still be adopted this year as we regard 2017 as ‘maritime transport’ year, during which we are working intensively with all stakeholders and, of course, for the benefit of citizens as is the case when safety rules are reviewed. on directive 2009/45/ec on safety rules and standards for passenger ships: concerning the safety rules and standards for passenger ships, we welcome an agreement reached on how to deal with an aluminium ship built outside the scope of the directive. the agreed phase-in period provides for a clear direction to influence the business strategies of the shipyards in question in order to adapt and maintain jobs. the duration of this transition still remains long. on the issue of derogation for land-locked countries with no passenger ships, we are reassured by the agreed solution. while minimising the administrative burden, it provides for strong safeguards that prevent member states from allowing ships to fly their flag unless they have transposed the corresponding directive. on directive 98/41/ec on the registration of passengers, we are glad to see that the commission’s proposal has been preserved and the vision of electronic data reporting confirmed. however, the six-year phase-in period is a lost opportunity considering the speed of digitalisation in many areas of life. we truly hope that most member states will not make use of such a long phase-in period in practice. to finish on a positive note, the commission wholeheartedly welcomes the amendment driven by parliament to halve the delay in reporting the information on persons on board to the single window. on directive 1999/35/ec, the inspection proposal means a reduced administrative burden for shipowners. member states maritime administrations will be able to rationalise their inspection efforts, all the while preserving the same safety level. the new rules should make it easier for the operators to comply with legislation and for the national competent authorities to apply it. it also makes it easier for us – the commission and the european maritime safety agency (emsa) – to support member states in implementation and enforcement. we want to take this opportunity to highlight the indispensable contribution of the emsa in this respect, including its role in enabling the information sharing between member states.
, rapporteur for the opinion of the juri committee. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs daniela aiuto, for presenting in her report the objectives we set ourselves in the legal affairs committee, namely the maintenance of a high level of safety on board ships and the preservation of passenger confidence. as part of the simplification process carried out by the commission, many of the definitions contained in the directive have been adapted to current circumstances, in particular because of technological developments in the field of maritime transport. this is particularly true of shipbuilding materials. in its original version, the directive applied, for example, only to ships made of steel and equivalent materials, but it was not implemented in the same way in all member states, in breach of the safety rules. the proposal therefore clarifies the scope of the directive as regards the definition of aluminium as an equivalent and stronger material other than steel, in order to achieve high and common safety standards for all these vessels. the aim is therefore to raise the level of safety for passenger ships, and this european initiative should be welcomed.
the rapporteur. mr president, having the advantage and honour of being the last speaker of this part-session, i would not like to abuse your patience, or that of the commission or of the many colleagues who are still attending the sitting. i just wanted to thank my colleagues and, as mrs aiuto said, it was a pleasure and a pleasure to work together in an excellent spirit, in close cooperation with the commission and with a council, the maltese presidency, which was particularly effective and which, i believe, was absolutely keen that we should come to a conclusion under this presidency. this report on inspections of ro-ro ferries and ferries, as well as the entire package on passenger ship safety, reviewed under refit, is a concrete illustration of the challenges facing the maritime sector and shows how the eu institutions are responding to them, by protecting citizens, which is, in my view, the most important thing. i think that tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen, we will have a massive vote on these three reports that will conclude this significant improvement in our security.
, on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming european summit will be an opportunity to deal with several major issues affecting the nations of the european union. i will start with the question of immigration. mr timmermans explained that he now wants to strengthen frontex even further. but frontex is an illusion! a few weeks ago i was in warsaw and visited the agency's website. we were very well informed that, in the end, the main job of the coastguards and border guards was to intercept the boats of illegal migrants to secure their approach in italian territorial waters, before letting them settle on the european continent. the european union has never had the slightest desire to prevent or curb illegal immigration. it has never implemented effective means to ensure the return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin. moreover, today, when we talk about asylum, we are told that the rules must be harmonised, and this harmonisation will obviously be in the direction of ever more flexible criteria, which means that asylum has now become a separate channel of illegal immigration. this allows millions of people to arrive on the european continent with no prospect of ever being expelled. what is very revealing in our debates is that there is never any mention of the technical means that the european union or the european nations could implement to organise the return of these migrants to their countries of origin. the permanent structured cooperation you want to strengthen in the field of defence corresponds to a desire now shown to suppress the sovereignty of nations. we know that there are considerable disparities between the different member states, that some have military ambitions and forces, and others much less. it is linked to both the history and the specific capabilities of each nation. it is clear that the interests of defence are totally different, sometimes divergent, and even contradictory. you have to accept it. and if we force harmonization or enhanced cooperation with a view to a hypothetical european defence, we will end up in the field of defence, as in all other fields, with the collective impotence of our nations. digital technology is obviously a very important subject, but let us first refer to industrial issues. the european union has no industrial strategy. we see clearly with the alstom-siemens case that we are subject both to american interests - mr macron was in the front line to dismiss alstom from part of its activities - and mainly today, to german interests, which are defended at the expense of those of other nations. in economic terms, mr timmermans, you tell us that the recovery is here, which is not true. the truth is that you only consider growth points and growth prospects. but growth is your idea of the economy. it may be there, and probably in a smaller proportion than you say, but it is part of the financial economy, which does not necessarily correspond to an increase in employment or an improvement in purchasing power. in other words, there will be an ever-increasing distortion between your purely financial view of the economy and the real economy, which continues to suffer. as for your desire for fiscal or social harmonization, it will lead, again, to a leveling-up from below. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal. in conclusion, i would like to reply to mr weber. mr weber, you present yourself as a great democrat, but suffer democracy, accept the verdict of the ballot box and respect the six million germans who voted for our afd allies. respect the 90 members of this party in the bundestag, who have said and still say clearly that they can no longer stand the insane policy that you supported and that mrs merkel led, which was to organise the migration invasion of europe.
mr president, some of the speeches i have heard, whether from the council, the commission or other speakers, bring back old memories to me because i have been a member of this institution for almost 28 years. for 28 years i have heard that when it comes to migration, the causes must be tackled, but the problem is that the causes have never been tackled and will continue to be unaddressed. what would it mean to "attack the causes" in the current situation? this would be to deal with the abominable regime in eritrea, for example, which forces the population, especially the male population, to come to europe to escape lifelong military service. but for that, of course, we would have to enter into relations with the african union. tackling the causes would mean not leaving much of the libyan coast to the traffickers, but it would obviously require concerted action. it is not just, as the previous speaker has very well pointed out, sending boats to pick up migrants after receiving a phone call from the traffickers that the boat is two or three miles from the coast, as a french admiral in charge of the european armed force on the spot has personally told me. and in conclusion, mr president, i have a lot more to say, you have allowed the other speakers to exceed their speaking time. a word on external relations... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, i would first of all like to express our solidarity with the families of the victims of the despicable attack in marseille and the terrible massacre in las vegas. more than ever, the fight against terrorism and the eradication of daesh must be the subject of a european strategy. at the next european council, the heads of state and government will assess progress in the brexit negotiations. there is nothing tangible in the british position today, as we also said in our resolution yesterday. such a negotiation is obviously not easy, especially since we have on the one hand the europeans, led by our negotiator, michel barnier, who adopts a sequential and serious approach, and on the other, no clear and quantified commitment from mrs may. the big declarations and the british reversals mask the scale of the difficulties caused by the uk's exit. the british message was initially: 'we will do better alone than with you'. now mrs may is proposing to copy european methods, for example, in trade agreements. what a tribute to europe! both tactically and technically, we remain constant on the need for a divorce before stabilizing a relationship in the future. to move europe forward, we must have a method and not be in the enchantment. recently, the french president has shown that he wants a european policy which decides itself, recycling ideas on which we are working or even proposals already implemented: the fight against social dumping and unfair competition with the revision of the directive on the posting of workers; security with mechanisms to strengthen border controls which we voted; protection of our industry with the agreement reached yesterday - we were talking about this a moment ago - on the new anti-dumping methodology. it is one more step for europe to act and, above all, to protect its interests. finally, we are now being presented with transnational electoral lists as a remedy for the lack of support for the european project, but this will have the opposite effect. to be accountable to the people of europe for our actions, we need a europe of everyday life, not of elected representatives from abroad, but of representatives who know the reality of the territories.
mr president, the estonian presidency is already associated with a very positive digital image. you are a country of digital excellence, and you will be bringing this theme to the european council, for which i congratulate you. but you have to do it in an inclusive way, as we like to say here. so you can't wait until the last minute to address the social dimension of the digital universe. what does that mean? our colleague mr kósa has just spoken about accessibility, but there is also the issue of the status of workers in the digital field, and from this point of view, access to protection, to the portability of rights, to training, to the possibility of collective claims, is a new challenge for social law that you must also address. and then, of course, there will be no social justice for digital workers if there is no appropriate taxation and, from this point of view, the initiatives that are launched here and there, a little messy, must not undermine the real reform of modernity in the tax field, which is that of the corporate tax. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, as i have never had the honour of holding your office, i can see how difficult it is to preside over the meetings of our assembly. however, this morning your predecessor, mr wieland, conducted the debate in such a way that we finally had ten minutes of silence, when he interrupted a number of speakers, including myself, in conditions which were completely impolite and contrary to coherence of thought. so i wanted to make this observation.
madam president, it is fortunate that there is a european parliament. we can be proud of our vote which is giving new impetus to european democracy, which has been violated, it must be said, from beginning to end on this issue of endocrine disruptors. the commission must now reconsider its copy, since it has given us the impression that it has been held for eight years by the lobbies to which it has never ceased to submit, at the risk of being held responsible, tomorrow, for one of the biggest health scandals in europe. these are very powerful lobbies, such as monsanto, which the european parliament has kept at a distance by closing the door to our institution. the commission must act now, not in the morbid interests of the industrial lobbies, but in the interests of the health of the european citizens.
, on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, if, on that first sunday in october, in any remote place, people had been prevented from voting by force, the police had been charged, more than 900 people had been raped and injured, all the european leaders would have protested against the head of government responsible for these acts, asked that this country be banished from the nations and, what is more, perhaps called for an economic blockade. but this happened in spain on sunday, because of a government as cold as it is weak, sitting at the european council table, while the european authorities look the other way and let a nation of the union tear itself apart. we ask you, mr timmermans, to condemn clearly and without delay the violence and repression in catalonia and to denounce the violation of the charter of fundamental rights. this crisis is not foreign to us, because we cannot accept the use of force in the european union, any more than we can accept the unilateral proclamations of the catalan government. we must ask the spanish government to stop escalating tensions, stop using repression and police and military force. and we must ask the spanish government, as well as the president of the government of catalonia, to put an end to this logic of confrontation, which can lead to the worst. the first victims will not be the politicians but the citizens and the people. without any interference, the european union must offer its services to facilitate dialogue for a peaceful and democratic solution to this crisis, in compliance with international law, the founding pact of the 1978 spanish constitution, the history of catalonia and spain, and the 1966 pact on civil and political rights ratified by spain, article 1 of which states that 'all peoples have the right to self-determination'. the dialogue must therefore be resumed and we must encourage it. yes, it is illegal, yes, it has no democratic legitimacy, but we cannot ignore the aspiration to express oneself, the democratic aspiration of the catalans. at the same time, regional institutions must be respected, as must catalonia's status of autonomy. from this point onwards, a period of dialogue and in-depth debate must begin in catalonia and throughout spain, with a view to the constitutional conference, at the end of which the people must be able to express their opinion. more generally, this crisis raises again the questions of the exit from the austerity policies imposed by the european commission, the fight against territorial inequalities, and a fair distribution of wealth within the european union and each country. it also calls into question our conception of the european union: either a europe of cooperation and solidarity, a community of free and sovereign nations, or a federal europe of competing regions, under even greater domination by industrial and financial powers. our choice must be cooperation, solidarity and the union of free and sovereign peoples. the last word must go back to democracy.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr representative of the council, the tscg (budgetary compact), signed and entered into force in 2012, provides in article 16 for its incorporation into community law five years later. perhaps this is the way to transform the tscg, a misidentified legal object, into an instrument that is more in line with what it should have been from the outset, rather than an intergovernmental treaty that takes over the institutions of the union. however, from the outset our group has been very clear, and we have fought to ensure that, at a minimum, the objectives pursued by this treaty are consistent with those which we consider essential to pursue, namely the objective of sustainable growth in employment, competitiveness and social cohesion. from the outset, we were also critical of the conditionality of access to the european stability mechanism that it instituted, of the necessary incorporation of the gold rule into the legal order of the member states, or of the excessive tightening of budgetary surveillance that seemed to us to be excessive. at the outset, we said that this treaty should be complemented by economic policies that are favourable to sustainable growth or job creation. we now come to the conditions for its incorporation into community law. the european parliament has long been calling, in resolution after resolution, and most recently in the report by guy verhofstadt, for this integration to be preceded by a rigorous evaluation of the experience gained from its implementation. in this respect, i can only quote president juncker himself, who in his state of the union speech made it very clear that the intelligent application of the rules had improved the union's situation without breaking growth. it is in this spirit that we ask you to review and evaluate this pact to make it fit for purpose. from this point of view, there is much to be done, because in calculating structural deficits, in assessing the adjustment trajectory of economies when they return to the preventive arm of the pact, we can see that the treaty, as it was drawn up five years ago, is not adapted. we will therefore support integration, but only after a thorough assessment in the context of an open democratic debate, which we are prepared to conduct.
, on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, we are totally opposed to the integration of the budgetary pact, the tscg, into the legal framework of the european union, for two main reasons. firstly, as a matter of principle, because we are supporters of the europe of nations, we have a clear preference for intergovernmental agreements, such as the tscg, in order to avoid the federalist spread of the union's legal framework. the tscg's subjects are very important for the budgetary autonomy of the states. secondly, because the integration of the budgetary pact into the legal order of the european union is extremely dangerous in the context of the establishment of a european monetary fund, the emf. the european commission is preparing a package of euro area reforms for december which includes the emf. this european monetary fund is wanted by germany. the commission will be responsible for setting up a mechanism for restructuring public debts, i.e. a buy-in for the member states. the emi will thus inform investors and economic agents of the different pairs which would be applied in the event of default. this will have the effect of pre-emptively increasing pressure on governments, via market disciplines, and raising the cost of debt financing. the emf will ensure the strictest compliance with the tscg. its task will be facilitated by the new possibility of bringing cases before the court of justice of the european union. this possibility, actively advocated by mrs merkel during the original negotiation of the tscg, had been rejected by the other states. five years later, quietly, we're going back. we will resolutely oppose, commissioner, the establishment of the european monetary fund and the imperialist aims of the european union, which will be facilitated by the legislative transformation of the budgetary pact.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to the court of auditors' report on the implementation of the 2016 budget, we can welcome the overall error rate of 3.1%, or almost 4 billion, which is not insignificant. on the other hand, while the european union's expenditure in 2016 stands at €136.4 billion, the auditors tell us that its leaders have already committed to spending €238.8 billion. we therefore have no further opportunity to act until the end of the mandate. you noted earlier that these results are exceptional. i am aware of a dramatic recurrence here. while our fellow citizens are subjected every day to the austerity and rigorous requirements imposed by the union, the union, without being reproached here, allows itself freedom with its own management. so this double standard is unbearable. the technocrats in brussels on the one hand, the people on the other, tax hell for some, and grace for others. we believe that this administrative pressure cooker which affects our daily lives needs to be radically reformed. this is the vision we are championing in the interests of our fellow citizens.
, on behalf of the enf group. madam president, thank you for the reminder. criminal justice is a prerogative of the state which has always belonged to the state and is inseparable from its sovereignty. this is why i am opposed to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, which would be competent to prosecute the perpetrators of offences affecting the financial interests of the union. it is up to the national prosecutor's offices to prosecute such offences, cooperating with each other where necessary. i therefore oppose the idea of a european public prosecutor's office which would strip them of their powers. i am particularly opposed to this, since it will work closely with olaf. olaf is discredited by the scandals. the union perverts all its areas of competence, that's why i say stop, i don't want it to pervert criminal justice too.
madam president, commissioner, european taxpayers' money will now be better protected and crossborder fraudsters more likely to be prosecuted. this is the message the union is sending with the creation of the european public prosecutor's office. the commission will have the power to investigate and prosecute the perpetrators of fraud affecting the union budget, such as embezzlement or vat fraud, which, as everyone knows, amounts to more than eur 50 billion each year. after more than four years of discussions, it was time for the union to have a body capable of tackling this phenomenon, which is sometimes used to finance terrorism. of course, we would have preferred all the member states to be involved in this process, but i am convinced that the first 20 countries will soon be joined by the others. how can we continue to ignore the damage financial crime is causing? of course, the competence of the public prosecutor's office could be broader and cover, for example, environmental crimes, but its powers could be extended in the future. the key now is to equip the resources package to match its ambitions, to ensure effective cooperation with eurojust and, above all, to guarantee its genuine independence. this is what determines its added value and its ability to investigate, especially on cases that may be too sensitive at national level. the public prosecutor's office is a step forward for a europe of justice. let's give him the means to really change the game.
, on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i think my speech is going to be a little off-target. safety on the roads in europe, but especially on the roads to europe, is a real problem. for the last 20 years or so, calais has been a focal point illustrating the consequences of european and especially franco-british policies. the number of migrants, i assure you, dear colleagues, has decreased sharply since the end of 2016. we've gone from about 7,000 to a few hundred, but that number is trending up again. i sympathize with the fate of the truck drivers, but in calais, at least 150 migrants have died since 2002. we want to deprive them of shelter and food. a priest had to oppose the police to allow a meal distribution in his church yard. it's unworthy and inhuman. the court condemned the mayor of calais and the french state to finally put an end to the inhuman and degrading treatment inflicted on these migrants. i believe that it is only by taking all these situations into account that we can make the territory safe for those who pass through it and for those who live there, and avoid any kind of tragedy.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for giving me the floor to present this own-initiative report on prison systems and prison conditions in europe. like some of you, i had preconceived ideas about prisons, the prison population and the prison staff. that is why i went to see what is happening on the ground, in france and in other member states, to take account of the views of all the stakeholders: prisoners, staff, prison administration, integration and probation services, ministerial officials. i would also like to thank mrs chinnici and mrs hautala in particular for allowing me to visit establishments in their respective countries, namely italy and finland. i myself have made a large number of visits to france. the prison world's speakers gave us a lot of time to understand their situation, the difficulties they face, and they showed us that there were other ways than the "prison world". the situation and living conditions of the prisoners are a real human problem. i would like to remind you of some figures: in 2014, according to the council of europe, there were just over 1.6 million prisoners in europe. this figure includes those who are in prison after conviction, but also those who are in pre-trial detention. according to the council of europe, the prison population decreased by 7% between 2013 and 2014. however, overcrowding remains a central issue in prison systems, as the occupancy rate in prisons is 117% in europe, while it is over 200% in detention centres, and i remind you that these establishments mix convicts and persons awaiting sentencing. overcrowding in prisons leads to deplorable living conditions which amount to inhuman and degrading treatment within the meaning of article 3 of the european convention on human rights. this report was drawn up on the basis of this text and its recommendations. in addition to overcrowding, there are all the problems linked to the old prison structures, the lack of medical care and follow-up, violence between prisoners, but also between prisoners and prison staff. the staff i met, although often understaffed and feeling unwell, carried out their duties with impressive professionalism and humanity. this direct contact with people on the ground, but also with legal experts and associations that follow prison issues, has enabled me to realise the complexity of this subject and the need to address all facets of prison life, namely: living conditions and care of prisoners; protection of the most vulnerable (sick, women and minors); maintenance of family ties of prisoners; education, training and reintegration; prevention, identification and treatment of radicalisation; training and working conditions of prison staff. all these issues are interrelated and it is the duty of the member states to develop prison policies which respect the dignity of each person, without neglecting the effective and appropriate treatment of delinquency. the facts are stubborn and prove that the "all-in-prison" system may not be the most effective, or in some cases, even counterproductive. this is why i believe it is necessary to encourage good practices in some member states, particularly in the scandinavian countries, which favour prevention, alternative sentences, medical and social care for prisoners and preparation for reintegration through open prison systems. where incarceration is essential, we must bear in mind that the mission of prison is also to prepare inmates for reintegration to avoid recidivism, which in some cases can reach more than 50% within five years of release. successful social reintegration reduces recidivism. just because i'm not a prison supporter at all doesn't mean i'm naive or lax. my design is to give real meaning to incarceration. we must protect the vulnerable prisoners from the most dangerous prisoners if we are to avoid the risks of radicalisation and falling into the big gang. alternative measures are used to avoid contact between petty offenders and the most dangerous inmates. in conclusion, i would like to say that i am aware that not all minds are yet trained to this more humanistic conception of the prison universe. i hope that time will allow you to develop your views on this matter. we need a change in mentality, a political will to assert itself without electoral demagogy. this is a matter that concerns us all. prison reflects the social and moral state of our society, but also our conception of fundamental human rights.
, on behalf of the green/efa group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to pay tribute to my colleague, mrs bergeron, for her commitment to this subject. we can really feel that he cares about it, and rightly so. thank you very much. what's the purpose of prison? in post-war france, the amor reform claimed that it had to simultaneously protect society, respect prisoners and promote their reintegration. seventy years later, in france and in the majority of the member states, it fulfils none of these three missions. prison does not protect society, it is only an illusion of efficiency that punishes especially the precarious populations. our societies are increasingly criminalizing minor offenses and sentencing prisoners more often and longer. this is especially true for petty crime, whereas white collar crime is still largely tolerated and not prosecuted. incarceration leads to professional and family de-socialization, and potentially to re-socialization into criminal and even radical criminal circles. prison also increases the risk of reoffending. is that really protecting society? the prisoners, far from being respected, are denied their humanity. the security logic prevailed everywhere, even as crime decreased. as a result, the number of prisoners has exploded, prison overcrowding has reached record levels, and prison conditions have deteriorated to the point of cruelty. the average occupancy rate of french retirement homes is 170%. how many echr judgments will it take before the reception capacity is finally respected? when will we agree to decriminalize minor offenses? finally, the reintegration of prisoners is far from being encouraged: only 15% of prisoners in france have a job in prison, it is very difficult to follow an education there, or even to have access to books, to exercise citizenship there is a path of combatant. without proper rehabilitation programmes and personalised follow-up, prison sentences are meaningless. so, to imprison more is to defend society less. other more effective responses exist. the own-initiative report presented today makes good recommendations in this respect. our governments must be held to account. what is the value of prison in europe in 2017? to falsely reassure society, certainly not to protect it. prison today is a waste of taxpayers' money, a waste of time for prisoners, and a waste of time for society.
, on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the bergeron report is of no interest at all. with good intentions, he condemned the prison overcrowding and advocated the development of alternative sentences to prison. it's like reading the taubira law. surrealistically, the bergeron report even hopes for "the establishment of a representative democracy in prisons". in the face of this far-left delusion, i would like to remind you that prison policy is a matter for the sovereignty of the states and not for the european union. this is why the europe of nations and freedoms group tabled an alternative draft resolution calling on states to assume their sovereignty and to take two radical measures to reduce prison overcrowding. firstly, to take back control of their national borders to prevent certain criminals from entering and, secondly, to conclude bilateral agreements with third countries so that foreign prisoners can serve their sentences there. since i have five seconds left, i would like to take this opportunity to point out that my colleague, christelle lechevalier, is here today, replacing marine le pen, and to welcome her.
mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a direct attack on the functioning of the judiciary. in view of the overcrowding of prisons, which would require the creation of prison places, you propose the limitation of incarceration. whereas punishment should be applied from the first offense to curb recidivism, you encourage laxity. a major problem is missing from this report: the backsliding of justice. hundreds of thousands of sentences are not carried out, either because of lack of space or complacency, leaving the convicted to drift further into long sentences that make rehabilitation difficult. these initial unenforced sentences are ultimately detrimental to justice, but also to the convicted and especially to the victims, who are largely forgotten in this text. with the same vision of the future, you are challenging preventive detention, which is essential for the administration of justice, to the detriment of past victims and future victims that you create through laxity. you see convicts as victims of society and repeat offenders as victims of the prison system. we believe it is essential to avoid the spiral of recidivism, by means of short sentences for the first offences, the effective application of sentences, minimum sentences to punish recidivism and the incarceration of foreign prisoners in their country of origin.
mr president, in a minute we must choose his message, and mine will be that deprivation of liberty should be used to protect society. but today, our prison model is no longer appropriate. it often produces what it intends to fight - crime. i think it is time to look at our policy on this and this report does. there have never been so many prisoners in europe, and prison overcrowding is having a devastating effect. but these prisoners will be released one day. the question of their reintegration is therefore essential. the purpose of prisons is not simply to punish. we must therefore ask ourselves what we want, namely a safer society in which ex-prisoners do not return. let us take the example of our scandinavian neighbours, who ensure that prisoners are kept in decent conditions and who prepare for their return to freedom. to combat recidivism effectively, an innovative prison policy is needed. there are many alternatives to pre-trial detention, but alternative sentences must also be used. it is time to consider prison policy as a means of reintegration into society and not just exclusion at any cost.
mr president, it is clear that promiscuity in prisons creates the conditions for a form of contagion between prisoners whose crimes are not all of the same nature or importance. there is a high risk that prisoners convicted of minor offences will be drawn into more serious crime or even radicalisation. this is why the countries of the european union must give priority to alternative sentences to prison. there are many forms of this, including general interest work. when i was mayor, i always responded favourably to the judicial authorities who asked me to take in these convicts for work in the public interest. each time i was pleased with the results and the involvement of my staff in their support. unfortunately, in some cases there is no alternative to prison, so the conditions for the rehabilitation of prisoners must be created. vocational training within the prison is obviously a very important element of this success.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur, joëlle bergeron, for her work on this report. we are here today to stress the urgency of the worrying situation in european prisons. the french example is the most emblematic of this alarming state of affairs in europe: a record prison overcrowding with more than 10 000 places missing, worrying and unworthy prison conditions, almost 1 500 prisoners considered to be radicalised, a despised prison staff, with totally unworthy working conditions. and france is not an isolated case. (the president cut the speaker off) in may 2016, i sent a letter and a questionnaire to all member states' ministers of justice to get a snapshot of the situation in prisons in europe. one third of countries are in a state of prison overcrowding and all have difficulty reintegrating their prisoners, most reporting a recidivism rate of over 40%. yes, prison policy is a national competence, but the challenges of deteriorating conditions are the same for all. the most egregious examples are prison violence and the detention of increasingly difficult and dangerous prisoners, such as radicalized prisoners. we must find and promote common guidelines. it's our responsibility. prisons must evolve, adapt to new forms of delinquency and crime and to new profiles of prisoners. in this report i am also advocating the introduction of detention systems differentiated according to the dangerousness of the detainees. it is now unacceptable that prisons are not taken into account in national and european strategies to combat terrorism. but they are at the heart of the problem and part of the solution. terrorist attacks in europe are on the rise, while prison, along with the internet, is the main vector of radicalization. we can't afford to be idle. another major issue that needs to be addressed without further delay is the issue of rehabilitation to prevent reoffending. these reintegration measures must be strictly internalized and must start during detention.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this is a very serious and important debate about very serious issues. i see two big problems here: one, which you have mentioned many times, is the lack of respect for the dignity of individuals, and this what we see by breaching human rights in european prisons. the second big issue was not debated here so frequently and this is the fact that we have many innocent people in european prisons. this is not only the case regarding people who are in pre-trial detention, where they have the right to the presumption of innocence. they have not been tried and they have the right to better conditions in european prisons. when we debate this issue i am thinking about how we can help more because you have said many times, and i also said it at the beginning, that the eu has a quite weak competence here. i was exploring some legislative possibility to improve the situation of pre-trial detention, but we do not see enough space to do that, so we are focusing on three things: funding; training of professionals; and sharing, and helping to share, best practices. on the question of funding, of course we see a lack of money here and when i discuss it with those responsible in the member states – the experts – i sometimes hear varying information or suggestions. it is not politically popular to ask for money to improve the situation in prisons, because people will ask: why do you not give more funding to schools and hospitals? this is the reality, but this is not the answer. we have to look into it. i was addressed by 11 ministers of justice by letter, who asked the eu to help with funding and i replied with a very precise description of where and how eu funds can be used for improving the situation, and helping them to solve the most serious issues such as overcrowding and bad conditions. i see the possibility of using eu funds – the european development fund – for investments in prisons, for investments into technological or technical measures to introduce more alternative kinds of penalties. we see a lot of possibilities from the european social fund for better rehabilitation of inmates into normal life and for training practitioners working in prisons and in probation services. so there are possibilities, but we need to invest more political will in it. my interest is also, as you have mentioned many times here, to have the european arrest warrant fully functioning. i am in continuous debate with the respective member states where we have the problems on how to change the situation. so we are working, i think, exactly in the direction which many of you have suggested here. i have been in several prisons in european member states. everywhere, i saw the need to reorganise the service. you mentioned several times that radicalisation is a problem here. radicalisation is a very serious problem. we have seen the statistics which show that about 15% of radicalised people are radicalised in prisons, and so we see a clear need to work more on an individual basis and also on the reorganisation of working and structures in prisons to come up with effective solutions to this big problem. we also see that more investments are necessary, and i have already spoken about financing. a change of approach is also necessary here and i see some very good examples. that is why sharing best practices is so important. two weeks ago, i was in austria, in the village of gerasdorf, in a detention centre for young people, and i saw a very good example of how to work with young people who have the right to be given a second chance to get back to normal life. i saw a very good programme of requalification and i think that these are examples which should be followed in all the member states. again, political will and money are both necessary, so let us work in that direction. thank you very much for these debates. thank you for the report, ms bergeron, and let us continue working together on this issue.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i have little to add. the debate was very interesting and i see that we share the same view on most of the points. i should like to take this opportunity to thank my fictitious rapporteurs. and it is not a formula, this report would not have been what it is if eva joly, rachida dati, mrs chinnici and others had not brought their enlightened skills to me. the first three are former judges. they know what they are talking about, and they speak about it in a wise, intelligent and human way. they have given me a very enriching insight into many things. i was very excited about this report and i am quite proud of its contents, because i realised that defending human dignity and human rights can lead us to go beyond our political sensibilities and, above all, yours. i think it is also a real success to defend human beings with the same will. i will quote eva joly: "prisons do not protect society, but that is their role". it is asked first of all to protect the victims from their abusers and the rest of society. but in the present state of affairs, prison does not play that role. the mixing of prisoners, especially in prisons, where, as many of you have recalled, innocent prisoners are mixed with prisoners who will be convicted because they have committed wrongdoing, is very dangerous. this system criminalizes the innocent, but more importantly, it puts prison staff in very great danger. i think this is a very broad subject. there is of course the problem of radicalisation, but also the incarceration of psychiatric patients, who should be treated, and that of minors, who should be educated and rehabilitated. these are huge problems, and we've only just begun to see the problems. the subjects should be dealt with one by one and the measures to be taken for each case should be specified.
mr president, people with albinism often live in hell because society is not sufficiently informed. this is particularly the case in malawi and a number of african countries. it is therefore the responsibility of the states to be educational in this respect, but also to take measures to protect these populations who are weakened by beliefs that are out of our time. the victims, especially women, who are often victims of rape, need to be cared for and protected, because superstitious practices claim that sex with an albino woman cures aids. think about it! the states must also pay particular attention to children who are victims of this situation, because they often and frequently become pain-sufferers in schools. the european union can and must help the states concerned to inform and educate the people on this issue. this is an absolute necessity, because it is the basis of the sustainable solution. this does not exclude the responsibility of states to protect their populations.
, on behalf of the enf group. mr president, malawi, maldives, crimea - what crucial issues for europeans are we supposed to be defending here! but four days ago in marseille, an islamist butchered two innocent girls, adding to the long list of hundreds of victims of a religious war that has not been named. yet it stands within our walls, where it is being carried out by enemies who have nothing to do with it, but who take advantage of your laziness and blindness to commit their crimes. this morning we are witnessing an anti-putin indictment, on the pretext of the fate of people who have been regularly sentenced for disturbing public order, inciting subversion, anti-democratic conduct or even, ironically, if we think of what happened last sunday in catalonia, for attempts to prevent, by violence, the holding of the referendum on the autonomy of crimea. well-ordered charity begins with oneself. let us therefore work on democracy within the union and only then can you give lessons to the whole world.
, author. mr president, far from being the dream destination for many tourists, especially european ones, the maldives seem to be sinking ever deeper into what could be called a form of obscurantism. women are often the first victims, with sentences of flogging and the wearing of the hijab, which is becoming more and more widespread. children are also affected, with criminal liability set at ten years, and even seven years in some cases. journalists and bloggers are particularly targeted, especially when they are not muslims and, worse, when they are atheists. yameen rasheed, a 29-year-old blogger who was stabbed to death 16 times, is a symbol of this. he knew he was threatened and filed a complaint, but to no avail. other victims include lawyers. two-thirds of the members of the bar were suspended in september and the prisons are full of political prisoners. finally, the death penalty was reinstated, although no executions have yet taken place, especially since five of the 17 convicted were minors at the time of the offences. the european union, the maldives' main trading partner, has the means to act in the interests of the people, but it is also necessary to have the will!
i voted against this proposal by the european public prosecutor's office, which theoretically, at least initially, deals with financial crimes relating to the european budget, but it is well known that, as several speakers before me have said, this is only the beginning. what is needed is a genuine system which, perhaps one day, will make it possible to prosecute the offences of speech which have been unfairly multiplied in the law of some member states. hundreds of people are being prosecuted and imprisoned, particularly in germany, for expressing views that are allegedly dissenting on the history of the second world war. this is how jean-marie le pen is prosecuted for homophobia, who said that "homosexuals are like salt, if there is a little, it makes it spicy, if there is too much, it is indigestible", or that we are ridiculous to prosecute him also because he said that the presence of roma was stinging in nice. in other words, tomorrow meps may be arrested under arrest warrants issued by the public prosecutor's office for such speech offences. i am convinced that this is the direction we are heading towards, and that is why i am fighting it.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would first of all like to thank mr nilsson, because i believe that it is to him that we owe the inclusion of the social economy, not the social enterprises, on the agenda of this debate. yes, the social economy is an important sector that does not get the recognition it deserves. yes, that is two million businesses, 14.5 million employees, 8% of the european union's gdp, a strong resilience to the crisis, as mrs bilbao has just told us. these are enterprises which are defined first of all by their status: cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations, and which are not just smes, madam commissioner! they can be very different sizes. although many of them are strongly geographically anchored, their activities are not purely social and even less limited to the most disadvantaged groups, although many of them undoubtedly have a social purpose. they operate in all sectors of the economy. the confusion, whether intentional or not, between the social economy and solidarity-based enterprises must not lead to large enterprises engaging in social washing on their own account. the development of social impact bonds in this area has given rise to many questions and a need for clarification. some social economy enterprises, especially the most fragile ones, need new funding opportunities in this period of shortage of public money. private capital can provide this, but guarantees are needed, and these companies even more so need access to appropriate european funding. i will stress once again the need to work towards a statute common to all these companies, namely a statute of partnership (in english, personal companies). such a statute would not solve everything, but it is one of the surest ways of allowing these companies to make their specificity recognized, not forcing them to dissolve into the dominant model of the capital company. especially when they are operating across borders, they want to expand their activities internationally. this is a way of preserving their specificity. social and solidarity-based enterprises focus on the long term and the reinvestment of profits, rather than on the short term pursuit of profit and profitability. they are, perhaps, the bearers of social as well as economic innovation. they are strong job creators. this sector, which is a key contributor to the promotion of a more sustainable and inclusive model of growth and development, not only in the european union but also worldwide, needs a suitable framework to develop. so now is the time to develop and propose an ambitious plan for social and solidarity-based enterprises, whose diversity must be guaranteed, and i would like to know why, madam commissioner, you consider that it is not the time to do so, as you have just said. the contributions are piling up, the commission's proposals fall far short of what we can expect. it is time to act for the social and solidarity economy. she deserves it.
, on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question put to the committee on the promotion of social enterprise, together with a european action plan, calls for a number of comments, four of which will be noted: firstly, the social economy in principle appears as a major and effective instrument for combating unemployment. many europeans are being left on the sidelines. this is undeniably one of the negative effects of globalisation in general and of 70 years of european integration in particular, and this is independent of the recurring economic crises. each european country therefore has an interest in structuring its social economy in a sustainable way in accordance with its own characteristics. secondly, the development of a european action plan cannot be done without a clear definition of the status of social enterprises. if we consider the french legal bases, it is imperative that these companies meet four principles: 1) a purpose other than profit sharing; 2) transparent and participatory governance; 3) management oriented towards the development of activities; (4) and legally indivisible reserves. the key is a very large number of jobs: 6% of french gdp, 8% of european gdp. this regulatory framework is accompanied, and this is the drift, by considerable tax benefits, which, paradoxically, are very advantageous for the banking sector, mutual societies, cooperatives, socio-educational and sports circles or care distribution. it is clear that this drift reveals turnover of tens of billions of euros in some cases, with, as has been said, colossal tax benefits. every effort must be made to avoid such deviations. thirdly, the great societal change in the world of work due to digitisation and robotisation which make this sector unavoidable. this is why each member state will have to make it a priority and be inventive about all the forms it can take. finally, it is very clear to us that this is an area of sovereign state prerogatives and that, by definition, the desire to set up a european social economy is to create another form of multinational enterprise, in this case multinational enterprises employing only the poor. this is precisely the low-cost society we do not want.
madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, here in strasbourg, more than 2 000 social entrepreneurs launched a call to strengthen the role of the social economy in europe. three years later, it seems that this call has still not been heard and that the commission is slow to propose a real action plan for the social economy. we must therefore take up the call made in strasbourg and support this form of economy which puts people at the centre of the enterprise project. i would like to stress a few points. first, the importance of cooperatives in agriculture. the commission must give full play to producer organisations in the new common agricultural policy in order to enable them to defend and promote their products better. secondly, i think we need to make it easier to finance these business models. as such, i hope that the new social entrepreneurship fund, which we voted on a month ago, will make it possible to enhance investment in this sector. finally, in the digital age and the platform economy, we must be wary of the false solidarity economy, which is only collaborative in name, but which actually allows social regulation to be circumvented. i therefore look forward to the commission's proposals on this subject and hope that they will match the energy that millions of europeans are putting into this more inclusive and sustainable economy.
in writing. the social economy has significant growth potential, as it already represents 8% of the eu's gdp and employs 14.5 million people. it is therefore a key lever for job creation and the fight against unemployment, which is obviously something we should be interested in. i will nevertheless emphasise the quality of the jobs created: some french indicators point to an excessive use of 'atypical' jobs, i.e. precarious jobs, as well as management and pay ratios below the labour market average. to this already worrying situation, we should not add competition between member states, which would have the effect of dragging down wages and working conditions. this is, unfortunately, where a european legal status for social enterprises could lead us. in some countries, particularly in eastern europe, the social economy is still in its infancy. a european framework could create an appeal, especially since public funds and tax advantages are sometimes at stake. such an initiative is therefore as dangerous as it is inappropriate, since employment remains a prerogative of the member states.
mr president, i agree with the idea that is being defended. nevertheless, given the seriousness of the facts that are taking place, including here, i think - and this will be the subject of the debate on wednesday morning - that this will be included in our proposals and i will intervene in the sense that one cannot be a judge and a party at the same time. the idea i shall be advocating in my speech on wednesday morning is to have an external firm carry out a study in order to establish the facts accurately and objectively. that was the purpose of my request.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the updating of the market of fertilisers bearing the ce marking is essential to comply with the requirements of health, safety and environmental protection. at present, only traditional fertilisers obtained by extraction or chemical processes have access to the internal market and have the famous ce label, while 50% of fertilisers currently on the market are excluded from this label - organic, animal or agricultural by-products, biological waste. as a result, fertilisers produced on circular economy principles are currently excluded. this initiative, this text, has two objectives. the first is to encourage the production in the european union of fertilisers from organic or secondary materials to develop the circular economy model by converting waste into nutrients, thus reducing the european union's dependence on nutrients imported from third countries. the aim of this proposal is to establish conditions of competition for organic fertilisers on a par with those for mineral fertilisers. the second objective is to establish limit levels of contaminants in fertilisers. the rates proposed by the commission are unrealistic and dangerous for the industry which uses phosphate as a natural source for the preparation of its secondary fertilisers. the french organic or secondary fertiliser industry is highly developed and has every interest in benefiting from the opening of the internal market and the award of the ce mark. these economic operators are de facto subject to a distortion of competition in the market for mineral and chemical fertilisers. the support obtained by french civil society on this issue is a sign of the real stakes for this particular sector of the french economy, and i would like to thank them here. on the other hand, the support of french members of parliament from all political parties in this house is still expected from the players in this sector. in addition to the vital stakes for the french phosphate fertiliser industry, the commission's proposal would also be a bad idea to make us dependent on only one source of phosphate supply and the collapse of the north african phosphate market could have serious repercussions on the social balance of these countries. the geopolitical interest is also an important issue in this text. our group has tabled amendments to set the cadmium level at 80 milligrams per kilogram, with a gradual reduction over 15 years to 60 milligrams, a reasonable and pragmatic timeframe for research and development, particularly in phosphate decadmiation techniques. the french delegation of the national front will not be able to choose tomorrow, when voting, to sacrifice too many french jobs by an ideological logic lacking common sense, by choosing cadmium levels that are far too low. it is probably better for the french secondary and organic fertiliser industry to accept the status quo by remaining temporarily excluded from the single market, rather than risking many of its employees being made redundant. the exploitation of an economic need for the benefit of conflicting objectives does not seem to me to be the best way of helping the european industrial fabric.
mr president, i have studied this report with my own farmer's concerns. let us not forget that farmers are the first users of these fertilising products, a profession which unfortunately sometimes feels excluded from the decisions of the european union, and which also feels misunderstood, and even despised. i therefore welcome once again the willingness to have our voice, that of the members of the committee on agriculture, associated with this text. the second point concerns the yield of organic fertilisers. you have to be sure that they are as effective as the products they are supposed to replace. this is a non-negotiable requirement, as it could of course jeopardise the survival of agriculture, which already faces competition from imported products that do not always comply with the environmental constraints of the european union. the objective of reducing dependence on imports is therefore particularly important and necessary. it is equally vital that our dependence on raw materials is not on one country but on several, for geopolitical reasons. cadmium is one of the substances mentioned. if the authorized threshold for fertilisers is lowered too much, there is a risk that the list of our supplier countries will be reduced to one. it is a risk i do not wish to take, personally, and a risk we must avoid, i think. on the same cadmium issue, the european union must strike a balance between environmentally and health-friendly production and economic efficiency. the commission proposal was, i think, far too strict in this respect. our group therefore proposes a much more reasonable amendment, which i hope will be supported in the votes in the near future. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to remind the commission in a friendly manner of its role: first and foremost, it is to protect the european interests of both individuals and businesses. some companies would thus be severely affected by an authorized cadmium threshold that is too low. of course, jobs will suffer first. let the commission look at what is happening elsewhere! it would be dangerous if the cadmium levels allowed in fertilisers in europe became the strictest in the world. i shall therefore conclude on this point, which i consider essential. the european union must be environmentally protective, but it must not upset the whole market by adopting a measure which, moreover, will not radically change the quality of the soil.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is an important report for the future of the industrial and agricultural sectors. it covers a much wider range of subjects than the cadmium issue alone. unfortunately, the debate has been crystallized on this issue. i regret the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the level of the pesticide is reduced to 60 milligrams per kilogram. it is essential to set ambitious but above all achievable targets in order to send a signal to european smes. of course, we must limit the use of inputs in our soils, but we must do so in a pragmatic way. any measures to reduce the use of mineral fertilisers must be accompanied by research and innovation and must be encouraged. the cadmium issue is a geopolitical issue and this has been said by many of my colleagues before me. so if we follow the vote of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, we will find ourselves dependent on sources of supply from russia and finland. as for the nitrates, i think it is very unwise to open this question. the current legislation is not perfect, but be careful not to open pandora's box. i think we must be careful about the over-transposition of european legislation into national law, which very often distorts competition. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, when you vote on the ţurcanu report tomorrow, to be attentive and to consider all the sectors concerned and not just this report from the point of view of the cadmium issue.
mr president, this report actually corrects an anomaly, since organic substances and animal or plant by-products have been used to improve soils almost since agriculture existed, but today the internal market only allows the circulation of chemical fertilisers. it is therefore an anomaly that is being corrected and a real further step for the circular economy to now also allow the marking and free movement of organic fertilisers and plant and animal by-products. on the point which has been much debated - i am of course talking about reducing cadmium levels - i am glad that we have set ourselves the target of 20 milligrams per kilogram. i hear the frills of some colleagues here too, but i would like to see a slightly more ambitious timetable than what has been discussed, since the health of europeans is at stake. so i would urge you to be very ambitious about this tomorrow. and then, if you value european industry so much, i would also ask you to take its interests into account when we talk, for example, about trade defence. i think that is more interesting than putting them in competition with the health of europeans. but in any case, these are the advances for health and the environment that i would like us to support tomorrow.
i'm the reporter. mr president, when presenting a paper like this, it is customary to thank colleagues for the work they have done. i'd love to, but i wanted to start by thanking some other people. to thank antoine deltour, to thank raphaël halet, to thank irène frachon, to thank denis robert, to thank all those who, one day, make the courageous choice of speaking out. this is never an easy choice because for whistleblowers, it's choosing truth, choosing ethics, choosing the public interest, and it's very often a choice that's made at their own peril. i also wanted to point out that this is the first time that this parliament has adopted a text on the protection of whistleblowers. this is surprising, because other institutions have already adopted resolutions on this subject; i am thinking in particular of the council of europe, which adopted a resolution in 2014 setting ambitious and high targets, targets on which we have based our work. i spoke of antoine deltour and raphaël halet, and i also wanted to stress that, on the other hand, this parliament has often called for the protection of whistleblowers and that this has often been in the context of the resolutions following the luxleaks case. i am thinking of the reports of the special committees taxe 1 and taxe 2. so, yes, we thanked antoine deltour and raphaël halet, we even thanked antoine deltour with the european citizen's prize. we took steps to fight tax evasion through him, through them, but today antoine deltour and raphaël halet were given suspended prison sentences. so we are moving forward, we are working and we are improving the daily lives of european citizens in the fight against tax evasion, but they are still condemned. it is particularly important today that this parliament calls for an instrument to protect whistleblowers in europe. in this context, we are setting out a framework which can serve as a basis for effective protection. in particular, we propose a broad definition of whistleblowers, considering that we should not be attached to a particular situation employees, subcontractors, consultants , but rather to the nature of the information that is revealed, and therefore consider that from the moment a whistleblower discloses information about actions contrary to the general european interest, at that moment, he must be protected. what protection for whistleblowers? we know that very often when we speak, we are under enormous pressure, even retaliation. it is therefore necessary to make clear that such retaliation is punishable by criminal law and to ensure that it is punished and that the harm caused to whistleblowers and those around them is fully compensated. we also want whistleblowers to be able to receive financial legal support when needed. we see that in many cases they have to face extremely degraded living conditions, loss of jobs, sale of houses, reduced resources. that is why we must also be able to provide financial support in certain cases, but also psychological help, because it is always a challenge to deal with organisations which have enormous resources - enormous means of action and means of pressure. we also want to take this need to rebalance the balance of power into account when an employee whistleblower is subject to measures within his company, so that it is up to the employer to provide guarantees that this is not a matter of retaliation. we make an important proposal: we want to set up independent authorities to welcome, help and advise whistleblowers. as we said, they are often in a fragile situation and left to themselves in the face of powerful organisations and, therefore, this network of independent authorities, with an independent european authority that could provide coordination and a way of appeal for whistleblowers, seems to us particularly important. i would like to take as an example a case which we shall also be discussing this week, but which is of a different nature. i think about all those people who have been exposed to the damage caused by glyphosate. i am thinking in particular of mrs grataloup, who tried to alert the monsanto company to the wrongdoing, who tried to alert the national authorities and was not heard. this is why an independent authority to welcome whistleblowers would be an important step. but i would also like to point out, for the moment, a rather despicable attempt by some colleagues on the other side of this house, who, hand on heart, claim to want to protect whistleblowers, but who, at the same time, would like to remove in this report any possibility of using the press. it is clear that it is precisely in the most problematic cases, in the most serious cases, in the most serious cases - we are talking about corruption, we are talking about embezzlement - that it is necessary to alert the press; these are the cases where the whistleblowers are most exposed. what sense would it make to want to remove the protection of whistleblowers just for those most serious cases that require direct contact with the press? it is nothing more or less than denying the citizens' right to quality information and suppressing the sources of investigative journalism. i find it particularly regrettable that, while we are to pay tribute to the courage of daphne caruana galizia tomorrow at noon, some colleagues are trying to prevent whistleblowers from speaking directly to the press. i hope everyone can see clearly in their game and in the votes tomorrow at noon.
in writing. if the fight against poverty is to be one of the most important objectives in europe, which, let us remember, is struggling to recover from the crisis and the austerity policies imposed by the european union, and this despite a certain economic recovery, this must not be done at the expense of the sovereignty of the member states. the report aims to introduce a european minimum income which would be financed by the member states (through the european social fund) but managed by the european institutions. we therefore do not accept that national forms of minimum income (such as the rsa in france) can be replaced by a supranational instrument over which france will no longer have control.
in writing. despite a slight decline, youth unemployment remains unacceptably high at 18.8% in 2016. it is also the most visible aspect of the massive precariousness of european youth, which jeopardises the future of an entire generation and destabilises the socioeconomic balance of the states concerned through tax revenues and pension systems, as well as the birth rate, which has fallen sharply in france. the austerity imposed by the commission makes any investment of €50.4 billion per year necessary for the operation of the youth guarantee, introduced in 2013, illusory. in addition, the absence of a definition of quality supply leaves the door open to the drift associated with public employment support mechanisms, from the 'bailout effect' to jobs without prospects. it is therefore an illusion to think that only a public support mechanism will enable the four million young europeans to get out of the rut. it is imperative to address the causes of youth unemployment: on the one hand, the shortcomings in secondary and vocational training and, on the other hand, the pressure on personnel costs on enterprises, subject to ruthless international competition.
mr president, since 2010, what was supposed to be a rescue plan for greece has been transformed into a succession of economic dictates in the name of servicing a debt that we knew from the beginning was unsustainable. now we are learning that these aid plans - with catastrophic consequences for the greek people - have been the occasion of a lucrative operation for the european central bank, earning it 7.8 billion euros in dividends and redemption of bonds at broken prices. this considerable sum must be returned unconditionally to the greek treasury, otherwise the operations of the central bank would be nothing but speculation and an instrument of collective punishment. on the other hand, with greece out of the excessive deficit procedure since september, it is high time that the eurogroup kept its commitments of november 2012 on the restructuring of greek debt. this is a necessity. we must give the money back to the greeks!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, trade relations have been a major item on the european council's agenda. mr juncker, you said that you would not want, and i quote, that our citizens would see any trade agreement as an attack on our main interests. but it is up to you, mr juncker, to prevent free trade agreements from being negotiated behind the scenes against the vital interests of our peoples, as was the case with ceta. today, just a few minutes ago, you told us that you wanted to do the same with mexico or mercosur, that is to say, that you would again place our agriculture, in particular, in unfair competition with countries which do not respect any of the rules, whether health, social or environmental, thus causing the death of whole sections of our economy. i remind you that in france, farmers commit suicide every week. it is time to put an end to these crazy policies, which are obviously in total violation of our rights and vital interests. as regards the posting of workers, everyone understood that the agreement negotiated yesterday was not a significant step forward and did not solve the problem at its root. key sectors, such as road transport, are not even concerned, and you do not question the central aspect of paying social security contributions in the country of origin, which obviously creates unfair competition, and means that the posted worker costs 1.5 times or sometimes 2 times less than a local worker. you are thus organising unfair competition within the european union, social dumping and, as a result, foreign preference in our countries. finally, as regards turkey, you mention, and i quote, a reduction in the pre-accession funds. i would remind you that turkey also receives considerable funds from the european union for the purpose of controlling migration flows, which often do not produce significant results. it is an authoritarian islamist regime. whatever agreements there may be with turkey, particularly in the economic field, our position must now be clear. turkey has no intention of joining the european union. the preaccession or accession agreements must be terminated. turkey is not european, either by geography, history or culture.
madam president, the last european council showed that the heads of state or government have understood the messages we have been sending for months. the agreement reached last night in the council on the revision of the directive on the posting of workers shows this. the fight against social dumping and unfair competition is a priority in europe. we shall achieve this thanks in particular to the work of our colleague, mrs morin-chartier. in the area of migration control and the fight against illegal immigration, the emphasis should be on strengthening and enforcing readmission agreements with foreign countries and, above all, on making european aid conditional on tangible results, since third countries also share responsibility. strengthening the capabilities of the european border and coast guard agency is also fundamental to continue to better protect our borders. citizens also expect concrete results for their security. the commission recently announced the mobilisation of more than €100 million to finance equipment to combat threats in public places. that's good to hear. this increased security will also require the construction of a european defence worthy of the name. but for it to be effective, the permanent structured cooperation launched last june will have to be a reality shared by all member states, alongside the development of a european defence industrial development programme. i regret, however, the lack of clarity in our external relations. in the council conclusions, only one line is devoted to our relationship with turkey. although we share common interests, there are too many fundamental differences between us and this country. let us finally get rid of ambiguity and hypocrisy. citizens and economic actors are waiting for clarity. let us say once and for all that the partnership with turkey will not require accession to the european union. finally, there is diplomacy in brexit, but there is also a political dimension. let's fully respect our red lines and, most importantly, divorce first before we stabilize a future relationship. it is by being clear about who we are and what we want that we will move europe forward in a coherent way.
mr president, i should like to make one point clear: we have just paid tribute to mrs galizia and we are all terribly affected by her murder. such homage was necessary, but perhaps the true homage we could render to him is by words and deeds. in a few minutes, we're going to vote to protect whistleblowers. amendments were tabled to deprive whistleblowers of protection when they speak to the press. if we really want to protect the press, let's vote against amendments nos 2, 3 and 4 in a few minutes. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, mr timmermans, you have not forgotten that we are not finished with the extreme right and the nationalisms of the left and the right. they claim to bring together - we know - the losers of globalisation and the losers of the european union, but today's europe also disappoints the most convinced. how can i blame them? neoliberalism as a horizon, austerity as a solution and technocracy as a method are bound to disappoint all european citizens, including the most convinced, and make our institutions odious. the issue of globalisation - we know this - is a major sovereignty issue. of course, without europe, we will be swept away by globalisation, but when the european union becomes a small liberal globalisation and, through its free trade agreements, puts employees, territories and, increasingly, the choices of society in competition, it puts the climate, health, the environment, the protection of personal data or public services within the reach of a few multinationals. of course, at that point europe is not fulfilling its mission. mr timmermans, we must change our trade policy so that social, environmental and human rights finally take precedence over trade and investor rights. if we do not succeed in this, europe will be diluted in its very essence. europe is a community of law. if citizens are not co-actors of this right and multinationals are not the decision-makers, there will be no europe.
madam president, mr vice-president, the commission will present the draft multiannual financial framework for the period after 2020 in may, in order to allow for a fruitful and shared debate on the financial future of the union. the famous leaders' programme presented by the council envisages the conclusion of the negotiations by the end of 2019, in defiance of parliament and the commission, because, in agreement with commissioner oettinger, we had drawn up a timetable which opened up the possibility of an agreement between parliament and the council at the beginning of 2019. i would remind you of article 312 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union: 'throughout the procedure leading to the adoption of the financial framework, the european parliament, the council and the commission shall take all necessary measures to facilitate its adoption'. the council is not fulfilling its obligations by envisaging the conclusion of the negotiations when parliament and the commission are in the midst of reconstitution. he disrespects parliament when he imagines that its consent will be a mere formality. i therefore call on the president of the commission to say, together with parliament, to the president of the council: 'amend your programme!' let us not give the impression of a union that always waits for the last moment. i call on the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to do everything possible to ensure that the negotiations are democratic and fruitful.
madam president, mr vice-president, we are here to discuss the commission's work programme for 2018. i feel a little uneasy because, during that time, president tusk proposed to the european council a roadmap, not to be in harmony and implement this work programme on its own, but giving the impression of wanting to implement a parallel agenda. i would like to say that the same thing seems to be happening in the proposals you are going to make in the economic and monetary field, where you propose to transform the european stability mechanism into a european monetary fund - a proposal which should be on the table on 6 december - while the president of the eurogroup has just been recruited by the european stability mechanism itself to think about this reform, which still raises questions about the credibility of the institutions in their respective roles. what's the proposal on the table? i warn you against what we are hearing coming: a proposal in which the commission would ultimately relinquish its powers of budgetary supervision to the european stability mechanism, the commission remaining the only one competent to implement structural reforms within the framework of a macroeconomic conditionality which this european parliament has always rejected.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as every year, the budgetary procedure is an opportunity for parliamentary committees to present pilot projects to improve public policies in the union. this year the committee on fisheries proposed a pilot project to improve the management of cod in the atlantic. this fish is caught not only by professional fishermen but also by recreational fishermen. it is therefore important to put in place management measures adapted to this reality, which allow all actors to have a place in this fishery. the commission's pilot project will test innovative control methods for recreational cod fishing. this will allow the legislator to consider introducing a monthly fishing logbook for recreational fishermen to replace the current daily limits. this pilot project will also improve the collection of data on bar stocks. it will also have to accompany the establishment of multiannual management plans. in concrete terms, this means planning fisheries management measures over the long term to ensure the necessary visibility for professional fishermen. this is essential to achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be voting on our own vision of the 2018 budget. as chairman of the committee on budgets, i would like to pay special tribute to our rapporteurs, siegfried mureşan and richard ashworth, for their excellent work. i support the two main lines that our rapporteur-general has wanted to give to this budget, growth and employment, including vocational training for young people, on the one hand, and security and migration flows, on the other. i would particularly stress the additional staffing needed in particularly successful programmes such as horizon 2020 and erasmus+, as well as in agencies that are gaining strength in the fields of asylum, external border control and police cooperation. erasmus+, which celebrated its 30th anniversary with great fanfare, is causing frustration as more than one in two applications are rejected for lack of funds. the parameters of the forthcoming negotiation are quite simple: no revision of the financial framework, no payment arrears. but nothing is lost and, if we want to conduct the conciliation in november and conclude it, i strongly advise the presidency to free itself from the eternal contradictions within the council, between the short-sighted rigorism of net contributors and the vested interests of the beneficiary countries, between the gloomy cuts in future programmes and the under-use of cohesion funds - may i stress that we will return €10 billion by the end of 2017 because of under-consumption? - between the great declarations of the european council and the weaknesses of european solidarity on the ground. we should not forget that this budget, because of brexit, may be the last one financed by 28 member states over 12 months. this shows how urgent it is to agree on the future we want to give europe. what budget for which europe? at this stage of the budgetary procedure, we remain confident, we are looking forward to voting budgets that will give the union the means to prepare for our future and protect us, budgets that speak to europeans, budgets that demonstrate to public opinion the effectiveness of european added value.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, you are talking about divestment, and in particular the lyon-turin link. do you think that by refraining from investing the european union will give jobs to its children and, in general, allow economic development?
mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs, siegfried mureşan and richard ashworth, who have done a remarkable job and have worked in good faith with the majority of parliament. before i turn to the budget, i would like to take this opportunity of the council representatives to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to amend the programme of the leaders. it was adopted in defiance of parliament and the commission, proposing to conclude the future multiannual financial framework at the end of 2019, i.e. when both parliament and the future commission have been constituted. thank you for hearing this request. i would like to stress two points concerning the budget. the first is a simple principle: consistency. we share with the commission and the council most of the priorities for 2018: investment, employment, sustainable growth, managing the migration challenges. as a result, we are planning to increase these budget lines. therefore, in order to maintain this consistency, we cannot accept any reduction in these amounts during the negotiations. the second point is our determination to combat youth unemployment, a scourge that affects the very future of the european union. commissioner, i would not like to give any misinterpretation to what we are proposing. in no case do we propose an advance, a frontloading in 2018 of the appropriations provided for by the revision of the multiannual financial framework in order to relaunch the youth initiative. what the majority of this parliament wants is for the european union to invest half a billion euros in the youth guarantee by 2018. we are announcing billions to support strategic industries, billions to boost investment, very well! so for 2018, we need half a billion against this social disaster of youth unemployment, half a billion for solidarity and to prepare for the future. this will be, be assured, a point on which parliament will be uncompromising in the negotiations to come.
mr president, the budget is the accounting record of our political priorities. in a difficult period of economic recovery, it seems to me important and positive that the union should give priority to research, education, climate change and, of course, the fight against youth unemployment. i believe that this is the european added value which, in the face of the retreat into identity and the nationalist temptations, can counterbalance the obsession with austerity which has characterised the budgetary policies of recent years. i would like to make two main points about the proposed budget. on the one hand, i am against the increasing funding of a militaristic and secure europe, because military research and the co-financing of the return of migrants cannot form the basis of a mobilizing european project. on the other hand, the free trade policy, whose treaties are in direct conflict with industrial and agricultural policies, cancels out all or part of the benefits of these policies. the priority is therefore to ecology, democracy and the securing of life paths.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow - i hope anyway - our european parliament will vote a clear rejection of the deep cuts proposed by the council in the 2018 general budget. this vote will be a strong signal, as opposed to an incomprehensible and - i dare say - irresponsible position, completely out of step with the real needs of the european citizens. today, i have to tell you, i'm worried. we are certainly increasing the money for the youth employment initiative, we are certainly providing substantial support for young farmers who are moving in, we are clearly supporting all sustainable policies in the areas of employment, energy and social inclusion, and yet today i am worried. i am concerned that the forthcoming budgetary conciliation will turn into a charade and that the member states will force us to adopt a budget, once again, at a discount. i would like to remind you that the 2018 budget - like the others - cannot be voted without the consent of the european parliament. if his voice were not to be heard, our chamber should, i believe, consider refusing him.
mr president, once again this budget shows a flagrant lack of longterm vision, by avoiding the financial consequences of brexit, which should be anticipated. the same applies to funds for security and migrants, since the european parliament expects a decline in the number of arrivals. however, they have risen again this month. the european union may therefore have to cut its emergency funds, as there is no lasting solution. this lack of foresight is also reflected in the budget cuts which are affecting the heart of a genuine european project for the future: research and training. the erasmus+ programme is thus cutting its funding to a european solidarity corps, which is expected to benefit mainly the ngos helping migrants. i will therefore not support these arbitrations, which are symptomatic of a europe without a plan, locked into short-term thinking and a rush to the future.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, a major contradiction is here revealed. how can we affirm the project of a europe which protects when more than 100 000 workers lose their lives to occupational cancers? i think that the suffering endured, the family breakdowns, are not sufficiently measured. the text we are about to vote on may be a step forward in that it will make it possible to impose limits on workers' exposure to 11 additional carcinogens. it will still require real and rapid implementation and effective monitoring of workers' health throughout their lives. this is in fact quite contradictory to what is being decided in some countries, including my own, in france: the end of occupational medicine, the limitation of the number of labour inspectors and the abolition of the health and safety committees in the companies. but we are talking about human lives here. further and faster action is needed, including the introduction of protection against toxic substances, which would prevent miscarriages, birth defects and various health problems for the future children of exposed workers, and protect the 19 million workers exposed to diesel emissions in a timely manner. between maximum health and maximum profit, we must always choose health, always the lives of the workers. we do not have to wait another ten years to do this.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while no one should be at risk of health problems in the course of their work, cancer, the second leading cause of death in europe, is the leading cause of work-related mortality. one hundred thousand workers die from it every year, while all work-related cancers are preventable. we can certainly be proud of this agreement, which is precisely what is helping to protect millions of workers who are exposed every day to particularly toxic substances such as chromium vi or wood dust. proud because, finally, in this revision of the 2004 directive, we offer the possibility of extended surveillance, even after a worker has been exposed to a substance, since cancer often develops several years after exposure. but i call on the commission to go further. the stated objective of extending the directive to more than 50 new substances is still far from being achieved: 11 substances in the first part which we will vote in favour of tomorrow, only five in the second recently proposed, not even diesel vapours which three to four million workers face every year. there is still a long way to go in just 18 months before the end of your mandate. in this report, you commit to reviewing the issue of reproductive toxicants by 2019. let me remind you that more than 1% of workers are exposed to it, that is to say between one and three million every year in europe, because in the face of states that are dragging their feet, that sometimes prefer to protect industrial lobbies rather than the health of their citizens, we need the commission, which must finally take a clear initiative. because a europe that protects is first and foremost a europe that protects the health of its citizens.
mr president, commissioner, cancer does not stop at the doorstep of the company. in the european union, it is the leading cause of workrelated death. the agreement reached, which revises some exposure limit values for carcinogens and introduces new ones, is therefore welcome. it will help to better protect our workers throughout the european union. it will also set attainable targets for our small and mediumsized enterprises. among the elements of the agreement, i would like to highlight the work that has been done on silica dust, which is present in the majority of manufacturing and construction industries and has been the subject of much debate. in my view, the value we have found is ambitious but pragmatic, and represents a remarkable advance for human health. it must go hand in hand with the pursuit of good prevention practice. it must also be accompanied by research programmes focused on reduction or substitution processes, where technically feasible. we also need better data collection, studies and long-term monitoring. the european commission is currently working on new proposals to cover more carcinogens. i welcome this approach, which should be negotiated with the social partners to ensure that it is consistent with reality, because i believe that this is how we can guarantee the effectiveness of the proposed solutions.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, roma often arouse a feeling of rejection in europe. they are even discriminated against in some states. although they have been present in europe for several centuries, their ancestors having come from india in the wake of the mongols, their nomadic lifestyle has never allowed them to integrate. the post report is therefore right to be concerned about their fate; some of his proposals are reasonable. it calls, for example, on states to condemn certain barbaric practices, such as the forced sterilisation of roma women or the illegal removal of roma children from their parents. it also has the merit of asking the union to withhold some european funding from states which persecute the roma. the post report also has several flaws. it is using the roma, for example, to launch a new attack on the freedom of expression of nationalist meps. moreover, and above all, he condemns the approach of trying to assimilate the roma, which he calls "paternalistic". i am in favour of the policy of assimilation of roma by their nationality state, because i see that communitarianism is destabilising and fragmenting societies all over the world. respect for the roma implies their assimilation and not their eternal condemnation to remain a separate group.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, this text is the first part of the smart borders package, a whole programme. this new border management is new digital files, new connections and more data and, in particular, now palm prints and facial images. initially, these texts were intended to facilitate the crossing of borders for the 50 million third-country nationals who travel to the european union each year. in the end, it is first and foremost, as the french authorities have just told us, a tool to identify people in an irregular situation, via an automatic alert system that signals any overstaying of the authorised stay. the aim is to encourage returns and therefore expulsions. i am not satisfied with the way we have worked on this text, which, under very technical appearances, conceals a heavy political reality. under the cover of a legitimate right to security, law enforcement agencies will have more access to sensitive data, including in cooperation with third countries, and perhaps with sudan, as we have just heard from the french government. while some safeguards have been put in place, they are insufficient and fall far short of the principles of proportionality and necessity as defined by the court of justice of the european union. we reject this europe that is bunkered, that flouts its own values, that plays with fears and that scapegoats a very small proportion of those who migrate to europe, in defiance of international texts. this freedom-killing rush forward is not gonna solve anything. it serves very specific industrial interests and, as we have seen, it is the cradle of nationalism, populism and the far right in election after election. after the council and the commission, parliament is now taking the lead. the wake-up call may be brutal. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you for asking. on these benches, in particular, it is very easy, very often, to mix the extremes. you have just demonstrated that there is a very clear difference between the extreme right and the extreme left. no, i'm not scared. no, i do not open my door to everyone, but i look at who i let in and i do not need to question human rights and data protection in a systematic and generalised way.
madam president, this proposal for a regulation aims to create a european system of entry and exit from the schengen area. i think there are two problems with this system. firstly, it is yet another re-plastering of schengen. the aim is to facilitate entry into the schengen area by reducing waiting times at border crossing points. i cannot therefore support such a reform, because i do not want to make the schengen system more fluid, but to abolish it. it is also a reform that will register all entries in interconnected computer files under the pretext of fighting terrorism. now, i think the best way to fight terrorism is to watch out for suspects and s-files and not waste your time looking at millions of honest people. you sacrifice freedom and you won't even have security.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the weinstein case has exposed to the world the sexual abuse committed by some influential predators on the women around them and with whom they work. it has allowed these women to speak more freely and to demand justice. we must do everything in our power to ensure that women who are victims of such violence get justice and redress. however, as horrible as these acts may be, they cannot justify the public execution of suspected criminals. it is more important than ever to call for respect for the rule of law. women must be able to complain without fear and defend themselves in court. the famous #balancetonporc is a sign of the mistake we must not make: confusing media lynching with justice. the hashtag is also the door to public denunciation, and no rule of law would tolerate it. i also believe that we should not treat this issue in the way that this hashtag does, making every man or boy a potential pig. my dear colleagues, rather than burdening the whole of mankind, let us face the problem. let's give our adult sons and daughters of tomorrow their innocence. for example, in france, 1 in 3 children under 13 has seen pornography. let's protect them from the violence that makes women into objects of sexual pleasure, that spoils our children and that makes weinstein's hollywood the norm for male-female relationships. i would also like to condemn, on a slightly more political note, the sectarianism of some members of this house who have excluded my political group from the resolution, thus weakening the european parliament's voice. this unacceptable behaviour in the light of the subject will not prevent me from voting in favour of this resolution which deserves better than this political pettiness.
madam president, madam commissioner, in recent weeks thousands of women have denounced the sexual harassment they are subject to through the hashtags #metoo, #metoo or #balancetonporc. they help bring gender-based violence to the fore. yes, it is a plague that is dramatically spreading throughout europe. one in two women has been sexually harassed. it is too often regarded as a private matter and too easily tolerated, especially since complaints are too often part of the fighter's career. all these testimonies call for a political response. i am addressing the commission, the presidency and the states. the istanbul convention is the first legally binding international treaty on combating violence against women. the convention begins with the words: 'violence against women must be understood as a violation of human rights. it is serious and must be severely punished. what is no longer tolerable is the impunity of the perpetrators. article 40 of the convention specifically provides for criminal sanctions in the case of sexual harassment. in our report voted last september, we urge member states to speed up negotiations so that the european union can ratify this convention more quickly, so that we can act now and more effectively for women's rights. i also ask those states which have not yet done so - and i welcome estonia, which has just done so - to ratify this istanbul convention, because accession to the union does not relieve them of their obligations. i would like to end by recalling that violence against women is deeply rooted in our society. we need a profound change in attitudes and behaviour to free ourselves from it permanently. women and girls must be protected everywhere and at all times.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there are two men among my staff. have i ever locked one of them in my office, pressed one of them against a closet or pinched their butts in an elevator? never, never in my life! but it is happening to so many women here in the european parliament. then we'll have to sweep outside our door. the world of politics is made by and for men. how many of you knew? how many have remained silent in the face of such unacceptable behaviour? power gives so many men an intolerable sense of impunity. this has to stop. not tomorrow, not today. - right now! for all the girls and women of europe, we must act quickly, we must take preventive measures everywhere and at all times, we must give more resources to the judiciary and train the police, because, ladies and gentlemen, fear and shame must change sides.
madam president, i think that in this european parliament there is no more harassment than elsewhere, but there is no less. i was going to say through this debate in all transparency that we are taking our responsibility seriously, but apparently not for everyone. mr. škripek, how many times have you been sexually assaulted? so let's not forget that we're in the spotlight and that what we decide here will have repercussions on the rest of society. of course, we are not to blame for what is happening, but we have a collective responsibility to put an end to it. if we don't, then we're guilty. we therefore make three proposals: firstly, we must put an end to the precarious employment contracts of our assistants by giving them a real opportunity to denounce. let's not forget that 95% of women are fired when they report. secondly, an external audit should assess the scale of the phenomenon and the effectiveness of the measures taken, to highlight the culture of the institution and not to denounce personal cases; and finally, a special committee on sexual harassment should be set up.
madam president, our institution has a duty of care - that is what it is legally called - towards every member of this institution. so sexual harassment is a problem that we need to address. on the one hand we must get women out of the humiliation and shame they are in and on the other hand we must all stop turning a blind eye. yes, i'm the chair of the anti-harassment committee. i am a member of the epp and i am working hard with my colleagues on this, but i believe that we need to make progress in three areas. the first point is the release of witnesses. i propose that we set up a network of trusted people who, in close proximity to each other, will listen to the victims so that they can help them talk. that's the first thing. the things are not said, the victims are ashamed, they don't speak and they need to be able to speak. i'll handle the cases that come up, but we need to get this parole released. secondly, there must be a mediator between the institution - this house - and the victims. i'm not in favor of having two anti-harassment committees, and i'll tell you why. it is simply because between psychological harassment, madam president, and sexual harassment, the line is so thin. it starts with one, it ends with the other and, so, of course, there is a real cohesion between the two and we must not multiply the structures. this is not what we need; what matters is that these structures function objectively. we have experts. finally, madam president, i want everyone to be informed here, so that members know what they are risking, what they are doing and that they are aware that this is not ethically sustainable.
madam president, equal rights, non-discrimination and gender equality are fundamental values of the european union. today, many women who are victims of sexual harassment are witnessing violations of these values. as a man, i must say i am disgusted by this behavior. the dignity of men is to respect the dignity of women, and this in all circumstances and in all places, whether in employment situations, in the office, in the factory, in transport, or even in the european parliament, which i must say is particularly outrageous. it is zero tolerance that is required in these circumstances, as in those of hate speech between people of the same or opposite sex. in the end, it is through education that we will provide the best answers to this question. but for those who are impervious to these teachings, or who have difficulty in controlling their impulses, it is of course an independent justice to intervene. i believe that protecting complaints and judging quickly are measures to combat this sad phenomenon.
i have received, in accordance with rule 123 (2), seven motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am the organizer of this exhibition. i invite you all to go and see it, it's taking place next to the members' restaurant. for once in the european parliament we will be talking about the gypsies. and indeed, thanks to marine le pen, there is an exhibition on gypsies, and i thank her. i invite you all to come and visit this exhibition. and to these... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly one of the most important debates of the mandate. what's the point of such an argument if we can't bring in the contradiction? i wanted to ask a question, but i was not allowed to. so, in the end, you're just hanging out. this is not a democracy. you're just being clichéd. i believe that today we must defend the nations against this problem of immigration and i am really outraged that we cannot intervene.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, last thursday the libe committee adopted a dangerous report by mrs wikström, which will be debated in plenary in the near future. the purpose of this text is to amend the famous dublin regulation, currently known as 'dublin iii', which provides in particular for the first country of arrival to take charge of asylum seekers. so today, if a migrant arrives, for example, in italy, it is italy that processes his application. if the same illegal migrant subsequently arrives in france, the latter has the right to request his deportation to italy. with this report, the regulation would be transformed into an automatic mechanism for the distribution of illegal immigrants. the dublin iv would provide for an asylum seeker to be offered four countries in which to settle while awaiting the processing of his application. the mere fact that asylum seekers can choose the state in which their application will be processed is grotesque in itself. are they really fleeing the war as a temporary measure as is claimed or do they simply want to choose the most advantageous social system? the report by mrs wikström ultimately aims to establish a genuine right to asylum. asylum has been misused, it has been totally distorted by increasingly lax and lax criteria, and has unfortunately become a whole sector of illegal immigration. i would like to conclude by giving a brief reply to mrs valenciano. you have demonstrated in your remarks that your approach is purely ideological, that the mere fact of describing reality is absolutely unbearable to you and that you and the group you represent have no solution to the problem of illegal immigration in europe.
mr president, from the straits of gibraltar to the greek islands, from lampedusa to the shores of calabria, europe is experiencing a flood of migration and for several years now, for economic reasons, the european oligarchy has been consciously organizing this invasion. but why do you refuse to acknowledge that the thousands of illegal immigrants who die every year trying to cross are victims of your own policies? 100 years ago, the bolshevik revolution plunged russia into a totalitarian, violent and freedom-threatening regime. several countries have followed this terrible path. the one chosen by the european union is as bad as the one taken by the former soviet union. the people of the east who have suffered under the communist yoke are not mistaken. we must put an end to these immigration policies which undermine the cohesion of our peoples and seriously jeopardise our civilisation. finally, have the courage to take dissuasive measures, to put an end to the collusion between smugglers and pseudo-humanitarian ngos and to send back the clandestine boats. in short, have the courage to be brave.
mr president, mr vice-president, in referring to the report by our colleague othmar karas on the recommendation for the euro area, you also touched on the question of the reform we are expecting on 6 december, at the initiative of the commission, on the deepening and completion of economic and monetary union. let me say a word about that, because i believe that in this perspective this recommendation for the euro area, for once - for the first time - really takes into account this concept to which we attach great importance, namely the question of the aggregate position of the euro area. if we want to have a real tool for managing the zone, we must draw all the conclusions we can from this concept. in this respect, you have mentioned the inequalities that exist within certain member states and between member states. this is why we need to use the aggregate position of the euro area to identify where member states can have room for manoeuvre and where it is necessary to be able to mobilise both public and private investment. that's how we can move forward. you also mentioned the integration of the budgetary pact or tscg into eu law. you know, we had a debate here a while ago. we will not accept it under any circumstances. a margin of flexibility to correct the economic flaws in this treaty is absolutely essential, including if you want to consolidate the healthy state of the policies of the euro area economies that you welcome. that, mr president, is what i wanted to say to this debate.
mr president, in the name of employment, this report of the euro zone's own initiative, of swedish inspiration, supports a most sterile and blind germanic ordo-liberalism. this report certainly supports the commission's hard line for the next euro area package. the main question is whether or not the european monetary fund will ultimately be in charge of the budgetary surveillance of the member states, as germany wants, which will thus have a formidable tool for supervising the public finances of other european countries. this is an unacceptable political threat to a nation that wants to be independent. in the end, we therefore reject the report altogether. in reality, it would be more effective and urgent to combat the german external trade surplus, which is dampening economic growth in the rest of the euro zone. we therefore propose the following alternatives: germany should make capital expenditure in the euro area; german firms agree to raise the wages of their employees in order to boost domestic demand in germany; the ecb's quantitative easing plan should be transformed into a programme for monetisation of public debt by national central banks.
mr president, mr vice-president, as you know, the socialist group did not take for granted the idea that the urgent need was to relaunch the securitisation market, given the responsibility of this market in the crisis from which europe is still not fully recovered and from which it is still suffering some of the effects. we had set a number of conditions and welcomed the idea of a retention by the banks, in order to clarify their responsibility in the production of these financial products. we were a little disappointed in this respect, as the rapporteur said. however, i welcome his determination, which has enabled us to have legislation that is making progress on three points which are very significant for our group, and i want to recall them here. first, an explicit role for the european supervisor esma so that he can engage in mandatory mediation in the event of disagreement between the different competent authorities. this goes beyond what the council wanted and i think it is a good approach to avoid getting lost in endless conflicts. the second step i want to highlight - which is also the result of our determination - is to ensure that this securitisation cannot be based in tax havens, in particular those on the fatf list of countries that do not contribute to the fight against tax evasion, under the oecd conventions. thirdly, and equally important to us, is the idea - the rapporteur has pointed out - that environmental criteria are integrated into mortgages or car loans. in a way, we anticipated the work you are now doing in the european commission, which we also introduced in the priips framework and which we will continue to promote, so that financial markets also contribute to the sustainable development of our planet.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the negotiations with australia and new zealand are not, as you say, a partnership. they are the free-trade advance in the economic war of the multinationals, with no regard for the small european agricultural producers. while we have not yet settled the disputes at the world trade organisation over the distribution of agricultural import quotas that will result from brexit, we are now negotiating with two of the most competitive agricultural giants in the world and, moreover, in sectors that are already in crisis in the european union, in particular the entire livestock and dairy sector. continuing these negotiations after ceta and following up the commission's desire to launch another treaty with mercosur is surely the death of a peasant agriculture, which guarantees quality food and jobs. we support cooperation with australia and new zealand, but we reject this deadly free trade. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". in my country, more than a third of farmers earn less than 350 euros a month and there is a farmer suicide every two days. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. secondly, because of imports from new zealand and australia, our sheep production is being completely dismantled. the combination of the mercosur agreement, the import quotas we just agreed for canada and this agreement will literally destroy our cattle ranching. we are exporters of agri-food products, but our french agriculture and particularly the small and medium-sized farmers are dying, and i do not want this to continue.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam rapporteur, is it necessary today to remind this house, as some have done, that australia is the world's third largest exporter of beef and the third largest exporter of sugar, that it is a dominant player in the milk and cereals sector and a world export colossus for agricultural products? new zealand is one of the main exporters of sheepmeat. cattle, sheep, cereals, sugar - these are already all sectors which will be affected invariably and directly in france and in europe, not to mention the carbon footprint, since the steaks on our plates will have travelled 15,000 kilometres, even though we have good and healthy quality meat here at home, and, alongside this absurdity, the european union advocates respect for the environment at all times. but what concerns us even more is the threat to consumer health, since, i remind you, both these countries allow the cloning of animals for food. we do not want any more of these negotiations which, like those on tafta, are conducted by the commission in the most complete opacity, where neither national parliaments nor governments have been allowed access to the documents, while they were available to the big bosses of the multinationals, for the simple reason, you will tell me, that they were part of the negotiations and the drafting. today, can you simply or only guarantee that national parliaments will be consulted, and when? finally, this arbitration system is leading us towards a system governed by the principles of the common law, where the text will not be fixed, since it will be changed according to the decisions taken and the particular interests of the multinationals, and we do not want that.
mr president, i apologize in advance to my colleague david martin, for whom i have a real affection, but i have a very different view from what has just been expressed, because i believe that beyond our debate on australia and new zealand, the question is this unbridled activism of the commission, for whom negotiating agreements has become a kind of pavlovian reflex. in fact, commissioner, one of your colleagues said that an agreement should be signed every six months if possible. the question is, why? i'm not the only one asking that question. there are millions of europeans who are worried and who do not necessarily understand why. in the case of australia and new zealand, it is argued that they are historical allies and that openness is needed. but it is a bit short, because the expected economic gains are minimal or even zero. on the other hand, the risks are real - it has been said, but i repeat it - for the milk, livestock and sugar sectors, and it is hardly necessary to know the situation in certain countries, mr fjellner, to believe that there is no agricultural model that is going to be threatened, as is the case with the small farms that are threatened by this type of agreement. so, frankly, when we talk about climate change, let's not forget that we're talking about increasing trade with countries that are more than 10,000 kilometers away from here; in terms of carbon footprint, i don't think it's a good thing. so take a break. take a break and reassure our fellow citizens instead of worrying them.
mr president, we know that in these negotiations - and i am also addressing the commissioner - agriculture is without doubt the most sensitive part of our draft agreement or draft agreements. new zealand is the leading producer of sheep meat and a major exporter of dairy products, with some of the lowest production prices in the world. australia is the world's third largest exporter of beef and has production costs 70% lower than those of the union. the same applies to sugar, and especially to the special sugars in our outermost regions. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the european union. in addition, agreement after agreement, the accumulation of concessions from the union becomes unsustainable for certain sectors, not to mention the repercussions of brexit. these realities must not be forgotten in our work and must be taken into account by the commission and the council. in these agreements, agriculture must not be used as a bargaining chip. i therefore believe it is imperative that these sensitive sectors - meat, milk or sugar - should be excluded from the ongoing negotiations on australia and new zealand.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on the response mechanisms to forest fires in northern spain and portugal (2017/2899 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this report is really very useful and i would first like to thank our colleague, mr chrysogonos, for all the nuances he has added and the effort he has made to make it a fundamental report, because it shows that the responsibility of the states is being taken more and more into account and that this matter is progressing so that we have coherence in the european union. of course, this report also reflects the fact that the efforts that the member states have made, will make and, in any case, must make are absolutely fundamental to the democratic relationship between our institutions and the voters, the citizens of the union as a whole. i'll issue a restraining order first before i give my full support. i do not share all the ideas in this report, and in particular, ladies and gentlemen, when the rapporteur establishes a causal link between the restrictive financial measures imposed by the union on certain member states and the incorrect application of union law, or when it is deplored that the annual reviews by the commission, the european central bank or the council of economic adjustment programmes for the members of the euro area are not carried out in what i would call a democratic way. in fact, i shall support this report in substance, and i shall of course vote in favour of it. on a number of key points, he is very clear: on respect for fundamental rights, which i consider to be the cornerstone, on the migration crisis, on the responsibility of member states which do not respect the quotas for the reception of refugees, which is a heavy stain on our behaviour, and on breaches of environmental law. on these points, i believe that our rapporteur has clearly indicated, in a way that is understandable to everyone, how we must proceed with the transposition of european law in the member states and explain it to the electorate.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the chrysogonos report takes stock of the application of eu law by european states in 2015. it responds to the usual canons of the language of wood, singing the praises of the brussels commission and welcoming the irresistible march of the union towards the bright future of a federal europe. nothing is missing, not even loyalty to the lobbies, modestly renamed 'civil society organisations', nor homage to the committee of the regions, whose undermining work is destroying spain. bel really does it! but the reality is stubborn. suddenly, the relationship is blurred! in paragraph 31 it expresses concern at the austerity measures imposed by the union on greece. it is true that the author of the report is greek and that it is difficult to ignore the devastation that his country is suffering. in paragraph 33 it even ends by expressing concern at the refusal of some eastern european states to implement the relocations of migrants ordered by the commission. this is all pathetic! instead of pledging allegiance to the commission, the author of the report would have done better to tackle schengen, whose bankruptcy is responsible for the migrant flood in his country, greece.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, environmental protection is a major challenge for the 21st century. the salvation of mankind depends to a large extent on our ability to ensure it. the european directive of 21 april 2004 therefore set out to contribute to this noble ambition by implementing environmental responsibility on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle. however, several studies have shown the failure of this directive. it is therefore necessary to thank mrs ferrara for taking the initiative to propose improving european law in an area where states cannot simply act separately. some of these proposals are interesting, for example the extension of the scope of the directive to include damage to air. we all know how worrying air pollution has become. but other proposals go too far, such as the creation of a european compensation fund or the granting of tax benefits to companies that are committed to preventing environmental damage. i think it would be better to encourage each state to set up a national compensation fund to compensate for environmental damage in the event of the insolvency of polluters. as for tax policy, i believe it should be the responsibility of the states. more respect for the sovereignty of states would have been needed to persuade the council to amend the 2004 directive.
mr president, i thank our colleague laura ferrara for her work on this report, whose main theme, namely the repair of damage caused to the environment by human activity, is particularly close to my heart. it cannot be denied that the traditional mechanisms of liability provided for in national civil law are finding it increasingly difficult to answer this question. this is due to both the nature and the scale of the challenges. it is therefore natural that, for reasons of efficiency, concerted international action involving all states should be favoured. i fully support the aim of this report to extend the definition of environmental damage to air, ecosystems and landscape. the current definition of the directive of 21 april 2004 is too narrow, and many fields of activity which are dangerous for the environment are not included in its scope. the environment is our common heritage, and our only right to it is to preserve, protect and pass it on to our children.
mr president, the polluter pays principle must become the rule in the european union and in all areas. from this point of view, as co-chair of the parliamentary intergroup on public goods and services, i can only welcome the extension of the draft directive to air, ecosystems and landscape. as saint-exupéry said, echoing an idea of the american indians, we do not inherit the land of our parents, we borrow it from our children. each one should keep this in mind in his personal conduct. glyphosate has been the subject of much discussion in agriculture today, and i would like to commend the european parliament for its courage in this matter. but i would like to turn to another issue, that of mines and deposits, which are a serious problem today. in my region, limousin, uranium mining has seriously polluted the landscape and the soil and nothing has been done to repair it. i think we have to find a way to ensure that, from the outset, when we open a mine, we pay for its restructuring.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, if there is one area where we believe europe could be effective, it would obviously be in public health, since borders have nothing to do with the spread of microbes or viruses and a common position could make things easier for each state in terms of public health. let us remember one thing already: each member state is free to decide its own public health policy and to see a great debate emerging today in italy, but also in france - since these days we are seeing an obligation to carry out eleven compulsory vaccinations in french law as from 1 january - means that, precisely, there are sudden changes in the way vaccination is approached. many scientific questions arise, but also questions from parents who are wondering, while france, at least, has been experiencing a shortage of medicines for ten years. again, due to market and patent reasons of some monopoly laboratories, these shortages have meant that the vaccine coverage has not been as good. the question arises as to why, when 15 countries do not make vaccination compulsory and 12 others impose only one or more vaccines, there have been no more outbreaks than this. why should it suddenly be mandatory to have so many vaccines? i think my colleague piernicola pedicini must feel exactly the same way. why all this? why this suddenness and what are the possible interests of the laboratories? the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the protection of the environment, which is to be implemented by the member states. so i think that our institution and the commission should be willing to allow for a priori and not a posteriori studies, not to impose anything in advance that is not scientific, independent, unless we are to think - excuse me for worrying everyone - that someone in some country somewhere has information on bacteriological terrorism. in the present state of affairs, a moratorium on vaccine studies, in order to determine to what extent and at what rate vaccination should be practiced, in fact, in our various european countries, would, in my opinion, be much wiser than to impose saying: "vaccinations are good no matter what". i think more backtracking would be necessary.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam commissioner, this new change to the subnational territorial units redefines the territorial mesh of the subregional levels by delimiting them in particular into urban, peri-urban and rural areas, and by integrating the new metropolitan centres that are emerging. all this is very good and seems to pave the way for a strengthened urban policy for the future post-2020 cohesion policy. however, i hope that all these efforts to establish a new geographical reading grid, which is undoubtedly useful, will also be accompanied by statistical data, which will also be strengthened and increasingly precise, in particular on the network of social inequalities at the level of the european union and on urban poverty, data which are sorely lacking in the 7th cohesion report and without which it is very difficult to analyse how european policies meet the objective of cohesion. i believe that this data will help us to defend the cohesion policy which is so often attacked today.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to welcome mr koch’s report. thank you for the outstanding job that you have done. it recognises that road safety is a pan-european issue that needs to be addressed through an integrated approach. this implies adequate road safety management, enforcement of rules, driver training, road infrastructure and vehicle safety, as well as post-collision care. i fully agree. every year too many families have to deal with the terrible effects of the severe injuries inflicted to a quarter of a million people because of traffic accidents. and even worse, every year about 25 500 people die on eu roads. that is a bus load every single day. 70 people. we must act and be more robust in our response, because the outlook is not that good at all. over the last decades we made a lot of progress in road safety, reducing the number of deaths quite significantly. thousands of lives were saved. but in recent years this reduction has stagnated. in some countries the numbers are even on the rise, and this is unacceptable. we do have to find a new way forward. enforcement of rules by member states on speeding, drink driving, safety belts and other unsafe driver behaviour has already had a positive effect. this is also the case for improving driver training and road infrastructure. the report rightly concludes that these are areas for improvement. the commission fully agrees with those conclusions, and this is why we have recently proposed new measures, for example on the training of professional drivers. but there is more good news. commission services have been preparing a revision of the general safety regulation and a pedestrian safety regulation. this has been done in a totally transparent and open manner by involving all relevant stakeholders from day one. in essence, we performed the ultimate peer reviewing exercise before deciding on what we should do and how. we have received very broad support from the european parliament in this report, but also from the member states’ road safety advocacy groups, and last but not least, the automotive industry itself. let us focus now on the accident avoidance technologies. advanced technologies can help us a lot in preventing traffic accidents from happening all together. one of the most effective technologies available today is automatic or autonomous emergency braking. the car stops completely by itself when it sees that an accident is about to happen. this way, a collision between two cars can be prevented. another technology that we are looking at is emergency lane-keeping system. it detects that that car has drifted out of its lane for whatever reason, on a collision course, and steers the car back into its own lane. in fact, these two advanced systems will also be used for automated and connected driving. speeding is one the main killers on our roads. this is why we are also looking into a ground breaking technology such as intelligent speed assistance. another major challenge for road safety is how to effectively deal with drivers who are too distracted to drive safely by themselves. this was not explicitly developed in the report, but it deserves our attention too. we know about the increase in road fatalities due to growing use of smart phones while driving. therefore, driver distraction and fatigue monitoring systems are also firmly on our radar. the eu will absolutely be at the forefront of car safety when these safety measures are out into effect. these measures already have a huge potential to protect eu citizens, as standard equipment on all passenger cars. but we should not stop there. the second item i would like to discuss with you is the protection of pedestrians and cyclists in traffic. we must have seen and heard terrible stories of trucks running over children at road crossings and hitting cyclists when making a turn. it is time that we recognise the urgent need for a comprehensive approach to protect the most vulnerable road users against current truck designs, such as blind spots. a first step is to add special detection systems to heavy duty vehicles that will know when pedestrians and cyclists are in the vehicle’s blind spot zone. but the second step is the most important one: designing larger windows. our analyses show that when a driver can see the danger directly, accidents with pedestrians and cyclists are prevented. with these two steps together, we are looking at a revolutionary approach to make trucks in cities a lot safer for pedestrians and cyclists. the work to draft the new proposed vehicle safety legislation is now in progress, and we aim at including it in the third mobility package coming next year. all in all, the commission is taking all measures which are in our competent to address this silent killer on eu roads. it is our responsibility to do more. we expect that other actors will play their part as well – especially member state authorities – when it comes to education, training, enforcement and infrastructure safety. so once again, let me thank the honourable member for such an excellent report that supports this important work, and i do hope that i can count on your continued support and engagement in the coming months.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank mr dieter-lebrecht koch for his excellent report and, of course, to recall the important issue of road safety. i would like to return to two specific points, which i think are important, without going back to the many human and technical factors which could be solutions and which the commissioner has described in detail. first, the recognition of the intrinsic dependence between accidents and the quality of infrastructure, in particular the quality of the road network. for example, motorways, despite their high speed and high vehicle concentration, account for only 5% of serious accidents, demonstrating the direct relationship between road safety and nature and the quality of infrastructure. as a reminder, a recent study looked at the financial situation of the road haulage industry in europe. 270 billion in revenue for the states per year, 160 billion in investment, including maintenance, from all taxes combined. so it is the missing 110 billion that could be useful to improve the missing infrastructure. it should also be noted that road accidents, while breaking up families, also represent a high cost to society, especially in terms of health expenditure. where the emphasis is often on the enforcement resources available to the states, which are also a source of additional revenue in the billions to improve road safety, public authorities should also do their job better upstream, investing more in risk prevention and saving lives. my second point concerns the lack of awareness among the medical profession. i speak here as a former doctor. everyone knows, of course, that alcohol and drugs are dangerous when driving, but it seems to me that there is a real job to be done in the medical world in terms of road safety problems linked to certain diseases, disabilities, treatments or addictions which are sometimes caused by the necessary consumption of medicines, but which have psychotropic effects or effects on driving. these direct impacts on driving safety require better consideration, but also better education of both the public and especially the medical profession in the care of patients. it seems that the doctor is often looked at as a patient, but not as a driver, and that the incapacities, the diagnoses, the consequences of the diagnoses he has made or the treatments he will prescribe have extremely important consequences for driving. you know that it is estimated that about 10% of accidents are linked either to disabilities which have not been taken into account or to treatments whose consequences on the ability to drive have not been highlighted. this is another point worth considering.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, 215 million christians are suffering severe persecution in their own countries because of their religion. international relations are primarily the responsibility of the member states, but it should be remembered that some of the countries concerned have special relations with the european union or its members. turkey, qatar, but also china or 300 churches were devastated in 2016. some of these are ranked among the 20 most dangerous for christians, including india, whose union is the largest trading partner, and vietnam, whose government is implicated in persecution and benefits from preferential trade agreements. if the cases of these non-european countries are serious and require strong diplomatic pressure, let us not forget our own situation. in europe 100 churches were destroyed in 2016. in france, these acts have increased by 245% in 8 years. the security of christians everywhere is being eroded by every advance of islamic fundamentalism. in our countries, i remind you, of christian culture, christians are killed for their religion, as the murders of father hamel in saint-étienne-du-rouvray and that of a young convert in grande-synthe in 2016 testify. within the european institutions which have renounced their christian roots, a change of policy must take place. let us act to defend christians in the world and in europe, where anti-christian acts will increase, including in our own country.
mr president, as the two previous speakers have said, christianity is still persecuted by the militant atheism of communism, which has claimed tens of millions of victims in this field. but it is also persecuted, of course and mainly today, by islamism. we cannot, ourselves, with our weak means, stop the atrocities of the islamists, but we have the power to negotiate. a bargaining power with governments because there is official persecution of christians in the fact that the laws of a number of muslim states, with which we have excellent relations, for example, prohibit, sometimes under penalty of death, the fact of abandoning the muslim religion to convert or have in their provisions crimes such as blasphemy which actually allow imprisonment or even death sentence for any christian who would raise doubts about the legitimacy of the koran. this must not be tolerated any longer, and here we can, with our modest, albeit parliamentary, means, achieve something: we must demand reciprocity. why is there not a single chapel in saudi arabia, when my country is covered with mosques?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to a vatican radio programme, 500 million christians are persecuted for their faith, 90,000 were killed in 2016. even in europe today, everything that bears witness to our christian identity, our christian history, our christian culture can not only be ignored, but even suppressed. our europe is at the service of a new world order which has replaced the rights of god and therefore of religions in the name of freedom of human rights, revised by triumphant individualism and relativism. it is an exclusive religion like ours and the search for sanctions against poland must be understood as a fight by europe against the refusal of this people to abortion, gender and euthanasia. only a europe which respects its religious identities can hope to inspire respect for all religions and avoid christian persecution.
mr president, commissioner, finally a debate entirely devoted to the persecution of christians in the world. i am pleased to see that my request, which i made in july 2014, is finally being heard in this house. i want to thank the presidency for that. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for your presence, although i think that, given the subject and its diplomatic impact, the presence of mrs mogherini would also have been very useful. ladies and gentlemen, we are ready - and i am pleased - to defend all religious minorities against intolerance. paradoxically, when it comes to christians, it is also difficult to get a debate in the european parliament. when muslims are persecuted in burma, all the states of the arab world protest and we ourselves vote for a resolution echoing this protest and to fight intolerance. when jews are attacked anywhere in the world, israel knows how to respond and we strongly and rightly condemn anti-semitism. but in a complex form of incomprehensible, even unjustifiable self-censorship, we europeans, ignorant of our roots and the origin of our civilization, dare not express our solidarity and support when it comes to persecuted christians. as previous speakers have pointed out, more than 200 million christians are being persecuted, killed, forced to flee their country of origin, to abandon the cradle of their civilization. we cannot stand by and be silent in the face of such barbarism. mr president, as chairman of the parliament's working group on tolerance and protection of religious minorities, i ask you: when will the european union finally take up its responsibilities? what is the plan for dealing with persecution? how can we defend our values and those who share them in a practical way?
mr president, in the last century, the communist dictatorships and the ottoman empire violently persecuted christians. some atheistic regimes, such as the french laicards, the spanish republicans, and the mexican revolutionaries, did the same. today, many are still suffering and dying for their faith. the reports from aid to the church in need and open doors are alarming: nearly 200 million christians, 50 countries affected. in communist china, christian refugees are sent back to north korea with only death or internment camps as the only way out, in the middle east and africa they are victims of institutional islamism or jihadism, in india hindu fundamentalists are increasing the number of bullies and the list goes on. if european leaders want to be heard, they must be consistent. it is hypocritical to feel sorry for the plight of persecuted christians while refusing to recall the christian roots of europe in the treaties and vilifying polish, hungarian, russian or american leaders for their attachment to the christian identity of their people. first of all, let us respect our traditions and our spiritual heritage, which have been battered by decades of consumerist individualism and reasonable accommodations with islamism.
in writing. the eradication of christianity from the lands where it was born is reflected in the figures, since from 20% at the beginning of the last century, christian communities now represent only 2 to 3% of the population of the middle east. this "confessional cleansing" is far from complete: despite the imminent end of military hostilities, many christian families will never return to their places of origin. but if, according to the aid to the church in need foundation, christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world, it is because part of this drama is taking place in the west. the martyrdom of eastern christians cannot hide the trials experienced by european christians in the practice of their faith. in addition to systematic slander, they face attacks on their places of worship. according to the french ministry of the interior, about 80 percent of the desecrations were targeted at christian buildings, an increase of more than 200 percent between 2008 and 2014. if europe must therefore lend a strong hand to christians persecuted in the world by conquering islam, it must also guarantee christians in europe genuine freedom of worship and belief.
in writing. i have had the opportunity on several occasions to speak on the plight of christians in the east, particularly in syria and iraq, where i have been. in the nineveh plain, christians have lost everything, and the recent fighting against islamic state has displaced even more christian populations. humanitarian aid is needed more than ever in these countries. in the rest of the world, such as china, india, and pakistan, the situation of christians remains a matter of concern. in bhutan, conversion to christianity is often accompanied by persecution. in mauritania, the government now says that repentance will be ineffective to avoid death sentences for blasphemy or apostasy, which is bad news for christians. the european countries must therefore rise to the occasion and help those who are, as we speak, 150 to 200 million people who are worried because of their faith.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, as a representative of the south-east of france, i can only express concern at the dramatic decline in posidonia due to a combination of factors: dredging, trawling and urbanisation of the coast, among others. yet this plant offers services that are unparalleled anywhere in the world, transforming co2 into oxygen or increasing the productivity of marine resources. it is therefore necessary to seriously question our relationship with the environment, when we know that this species dating back millions of years, which has withstood the worst cataclysms, is now threatened. if awareness raising is useful, we need to ask the right questions instead of multiplying investments, studies and various european programmes. it should be noted, however, that the european union has exclusive competence in the field of fisheries and conservation of resources. the commission cannot therefore say that it lacks the prerogatives to preserve marine ecosystems.
mr president, just two years ago, a terrible terrorist attack blew paris to bits on 13 november 2015. i want to pay tribute to the 130 people whose lives were taken by daesh that day. this drama is reminiscent of those few verses of paul verlaine which one might think were written to show the horror: the terrible dead on a dragon is shown, passing like thunder among humans, knocking down, lightning, everything she meets, and holding a falx in her livid hands. other let's never forget what happened, but it's not enough to light candles and recite poems. all necessary measures must be taken to ensure that such a tragedy never happens again. we must crush the caliphate of daesh, strengthen our intelligence and security services, close the salafist mosques that preach hate and defend our values and identity against islamic fundamentalism without wavering.
madam president, commissioner, since the end of national frontiers and in the absence of serious regulations, the ultra-liberal and federalist european union is directly responsible for the tax evasion of multinationals. whether it is vat fraud or the misuse of corporate tax, the fiscal damage to the public is immense. the cost to france has been more than €80 billion a year for the past two decades. because of the active complicity of some member states, large american digital companies, such as apple, are legally able to pay an effective tax on their european profits that is close to zero. profits made throughout the european union are in fact reallocated to parent companies, notably in ireland or luxembourg, where they are subject to insignificant taxation before their final departure for tax havens. we must make these tax-avoidance practices impossible and illegal. unfortunately, the reforms to combat tax evasion are being blocked by the same member states that are vampiring their partners' public finances. the effective political solution is therefore for france and the other states affected by tax evasion to conclude an intergovernmental agreement as a matter of urgency. the aim is to force non-cooperative member states to accept that the tax base of multinationals is reallocated, country by country, to where the activity and profits are actually created. we must stop this fiscal haemorrhage as a matter of urgency, mr moscovici. our citizens are demanding it.
madam president, commissioner, the panama papers yesterday, the paradise papers today. how many millions more documents will it take for governments to take the plunge? how many billions of euros will we allow to be diverted from our public finances, our schools and our hospitals? the repeated scandals require a political response. it is the responsibility of the member states to adopt a credible european list of tax havens. it would be unbearable to see only a few countries on the list, when the paradise papers have revealed a system of tax evasion involving too many countries, including those in our union. above all, this list must be accompanied by effective sanctions denouncing the tax agreements concluded with each country on this list. the effect would be terrible. we could finally tax profits that go on tax holidays. we are not condemned to be robbed of our public finances forever. we know the solutions to combat tax evasion. only courage is lacking.
madam president, commissioner, you have told us that this is a new scandal, but is it really a surprise? there are a number of us here who think that there is no point in shouting about the war. there is complicity on the part of the member states and, mr president-in-office, you have a huge responsibility. the citizens are tired of discovering new lists, new documents, day after day. the paper they want to see is the one you will have to adopt on 5 december, namely the list of tax havens, as the european union must consider them. let us face it: is everyone here aware that the list which is currently in force is the oecd list? of the 19 countries and territories covered by the paradise papers, only one is considered a tax haven, five are "largely compliant" and one is "partially compliant". there are obvious holes... when i observe that 22 countries have already been deemed 'probably safe' and that the united states is among them, while the state of delaware is clearly a tax haven, i think we have to be brave. this is what the citizens expect from us. mr president-in-office of the council, the responsibility of the member states to stop shooting themselves in the foot is immense.
madam president, from the luxleaks to the paradise papers, the scandals that have shaken public opinion have shown that we now have two duties within the european family. first, a moral duty: to put an end once and for all to the practices by which some family members have stolen the tax potential of their neighbours. attracting talent or investors by low rates, publicly displayed and practiced, is part of normal tax competition. on the other hand, to authorize, encourage, facilitate and finally organise arrangements which effectively abolish all taxation is an outrage, an outrage against the equality of taxpayers within the same country and an outrage against european solidarity. it is our common founding values that are being trampled on. secondly, we have an economic duty to offer our companies a single area of trade, regulation and money. we are completing the construction of the single banking and financial area, commissioner, and we also owe them a european fiscal area. it is time to remove the walls that fragment the single market into 28 different tax areas. smes are the first victims. the axis project, presented by the commission, is the common answer to these two tasks. parliament proposes to enrich it by laying the foundations for a tax on digital platforms. for once, the union has a head start on the oecd and the us congress. we have the rare opportunity to be the pioneers and therefore the first global reference for the implementation of a major policy adapted to the needs of the 21st century.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my appreciation for the spirit of the text which will be put to the vote today, which is not customary. the prerogatives of national consumer protection authorities are preserved and strengthened and new legal tools are made available to them to adapt to the digital age. the cooperation between these national authorities, which is mentioned in this text, in a genuine interest in efficiency and competence, is satisfactory. the role of coordinator or facilitator given to the commission in large-scale infringement cases with a european dimension also seems pragmatic and in line with the current commercial context. we have finally managed to avoid the trap of the commission's centralising temptations, which are generally disconnected from commercial realities and therefore generally counterproductive. that tentacular will has not prevailed today and i welcome that. my group will therefore support the interim agreement and consider this text as an interesting basis for future work. the best level of protection for citizens and consumers is, of course, the 'nation', and i am pleased to see that we are all in agreement here.
mr president, my point of order is based on the article which provides for sanctions for members. i would like to say that i do not always share mr korwin-mikke's views or comments, but as a former member of this parliament, i do not hide from you, my dear colleagues, that i am quite concerned about the repressive drift that is becoming more and more evident. in the past, the president and the bureau of parliament could only sanction members who seriously disrupted the work of the house. but it seems more and more that those who make incorrect statements - but who decides whether or not a statement is correct - can be punished, can have their allowances cut, stigmatised by the bureau of the parliament. i believe that this is as dangerous a drift as the one we have seen in relation to the european arrest warrant used today against a person, mr puigdemont, whose convictions i do not share at all, i am not in favour of catalan independence, but i consider it abnormal that this european arrest warrant is used against an undeniably political refugee.
the agenda calls for the debate on the council and commission statements on the rule of law in malta (2017/2935 ((rsp)).
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the cowardly murder of our fellow journalist daphne caruana galizia only raises the lid on the maltese government's failure to respect the so-called rule of law. it was because she denounced multiple practices that are contrary to what we call "our values", including the sale of citizenship to the highest bidder, the change of the police chief five times in four years, tax evasion and money laundering, and the cover-up of corruption in azerbaijan that she was murdered. if the european union is indeed a community of law, it cannot tolerate such flagrant breaches of its principles and must urgently change its instruments to ensure that this rule of law is respected, just as it cannot tolerate the tax practices of states which undermine one of the foundations of our democracies, and perhaps of civilization, equality before tax.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the island of malta is one of the cradles of european civilization. it is a strategic island in the mediterranean, at a time when the mediterranean is in complete turmoil. however, unfortunately, malta is not in the best of news today. the island of malta today is facing two problems. on the one hand, tax evasion and on the other, corruption. tax evasion, because we talked about it with the paradise papers, but also for vat fraud. corruption is unfortunately a widespread problem in a number of countries in the european union. can we add that it is a criminal gang that is running this small state today? at a time when madrid and warsaw are being violently attacked, when spain and poland are the victims of the european union, i believe that it is now time to identify the real culprits and that it is time for the union to send a mission of european parliamentarians to examine what is happening on the island of malta.
madam president, i have three pieces of bad news for the prime minister of malta, joseph muscat. first, re-election will never replace the work of the judiciary. suspicions of corruption and money laundering against his relatives tarnish his political activity. the lack of an investigation makes her untrustworthy. secondly, malta's tax rules must change. they undermine european cohesion and, more broadly, the future of the union. the revelations of the paradise papers have finally disgusted the citizens, who are being forced to make austerity and who see their public services deteriorating. an infringement procedure, as mentioned by commissioner moscovici, would be a minimum. the european union must go further and put an end to unfair tax competition within its own borders. thirdly, the maltese government must know that the work of investigating daphne caruana galizia will not end with her murder. other journalists will finish it with the support of european citizens shocked that such horrors could happen in the heart of the european union.
madam president, at the beginning of november the commission rejected calls for an independent inquiry into the murder of daphne caruana galizia. the commission, while intransigent towards certain states such as hungary, seems therefore inclined to allow an endemic system of corruption to flourish in the union. this 'double standard' is all the more striking as this crime comes after multiple warnings, including from the media pluralism monitor, about malta's shortcomings in fundamental freedoms and transparency. when malta assumed the council presidency, it nevertheless made the fight against money laundering a priority. the tribute to ms caruana galizia cannot be a cheap tribute to the efforts of the anti-corruption movement. the commission must take responsibility for practices such as citizenship buying, which my colleagues denounced in their resolution, and which seriously jeopardise the union as a whole.
so, mr. lavrilleux, you had a point of order?
madam president, i wanted to protest against the fact that you occasionally give a blue card and that on other occasions we are not able to give one, which seems to me to be a breach of parliamentarians' equality in this house. i simply wanted to react to our socialist colleague who spoke a moment ago, who dared to say that what is happening in malta is happening in many countries. i am not aware of any other countries in the european union where journalists have been murdered for investigating corruption in government. if she has knowledge of such facts, could she report them to us?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 21 different points are included in this motion for a resolution. and while, as director-general roberto azevêdo acknowledges, these suggestions should probably have no impact - with each state having a de facto right of veto - unfortunately, they do work and in these cases it is always to our detriment. in occitania, and particularly in sète, our producers of rapeseed biodiesel were forced to reduce their activities and to lay off workers following the european union's decision to encourage the import of biodiesel from argentine soybeans. indeed, each time brussels prefers to sacrifice the interests of the economic actors of the member states on the altar of ultra-liberalism, which is defended by the wto, rather than protect our entrepreneurs and producers from globalism and unfair competition. we are determined to defend another option: that of intelligent protectionism and the defence of our production and the jobs of our compatriots.
(start of the debate off the record) ...more hard will be the focus of the discussions at this conference in buenos aires with the issue of support for farmers on the menu. i am one of those who believe that the common agricultural policy must be reformed in depth and that the positions of the european union in the wto should not preempt our future debates. i would ask you, commissioner, not to put any additional pressure on us, but to allow us to continue to support our sectors in difficulty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe has already changed its agricultural policy several times to comply with the wto with market-oriented and export-subsidy components. this is not the case with the other major agricultural powers. the union should not once again behave naively as if it were the only good student of the wto.
mr president, i do not know whether the wto ministerial meeting in buenos aires will be the last chance, but what i do know is that action is urgently needed if we are to save this institution, which is currently in difficulty in the face of the multitude of bilateral agreements and the lack of enthusiasm, to say the least, on the part of some established or emerging countries to respect the common rules. more judges are needed to enforce them. the european union, which is the good pupil of the wto, must not suffer from this lack of sufficient control. i would like to speak specifically about the question of public services, which in my view must be protected in order to meet the needs of citizens and territories. yes, to international rules for trade in market services, but an exception for public services freely set up by public authorities.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, when it comes to foreign policy, the european union is wrong. this recommendation by parliament is a perfect example of this. not surprisingly, it is very hostile to russia, which it holds solely responsible and guilty for the ills of ukraine. the atlanticists here should remember the kosovo case law. they should also remember the interference of ngos financed by george soros and supported by the european union, under the pretext of strengthening civil society. the way in which this partnership is taking russia to the brink of a confrontation with its neighbours is irresponsible. the european peoples, whom you are supposed to represent, have no interest, but then really no interest, in relations between the european union and russia deteriorating further. the sanctions, besides being completely unnecessary, have cost our farmers tens of billions of euros, not to mention the billions of euros in aid paid to these corrupt countries, which also cost european taxpayers dearly, but are a big profit for certain european elected representatives or officials who benefit, for example, from the 'caviar diplomacy' of azerbaijan, according to the revelations made by the press last september.
mr president, the eastern partnership, the european mechanism for concluding political and economic agreements with the eastern countries outside the eu, is still a game of trickery with tragic consequences for them. take ukraine, for example. the country has no good to expect from the european union in return for the eastern partnership, not even possible membership of the union, since a majority of member states are opposed to it. the deep free trade agreement is itself a european hoax for ukraine. most ukrainian products, especially in the eastern industrial regions, will never be able to meet the standards of the union markets and will therefore never be exportable. the more competitive eu products will continue to sweep away local productions in ukraine and put millions of ukrainian workers out of work. in reality, the only hidden objective of the eastern partnership was to deconstruct the former economic and political relationship between ukraine and russia. it should be remembered that the population of eastern ukraine is of russian culture, demographically it is between russia and ukraine, and the entire economy of eastern ukraine was entirely oriented towards russia. for the sake of ukrainians, let us stop this institutional lie of the european union called the eastern partnership.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, welcome to your responsibilities. generally speaking, when i speak about trade policy, i sometimes get very critical of the european commission and our european institutions. sometimes i even shout very loudly. but i am proud to speak about the european institutions because we are not on an agenda like the free trade agreements of deregulation, we are on a regulatory agenda. because in 2012, when there was chinese dumping on photovoltaic panels, this parliament mobilized, the commission did its job, but the states were divided. we remember china going to greece, threatening it over the investment in the port of piraeus, going to france, threatening it over the wine subsidies and finally going to mrs merkel and offering to sell her her machine tools to make photovoltaic panels rather than defending the european photovoltaic industry. this has been repeated in the steel industry. the basic problem in europe is that we have built ourselves on consumer protection and market protection, but because of national sovereignty over industry, we have no industrial policy, no real policy to protect producers. it is precisely on this point that we are embarking on this approach for the first time and i am very proud that in this parliament, together with the council, we have finally recognised social dumping and environmental dumping in our policies to protect our industries, our employees, our jobs and, of course, the protection of employees and the environment. it is true that through this rule we will finally be able to publicly debate chinese dumping and the conditions of this dumping. publicly, we will be able to have a debate on the non-compliance with ilo conventions or the non-compliance with multilateral environmental agreements. this reform is welcome and the council will need to continue its work on trade defence instruments. but this is good news.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let us open our eyes and read between the lines. it is not a question of looking at china or brazil, it is we, the european countries, who are concerned by the cicu report, and i thank my colleague for having been able to make progress on the distortion of competition. it is now a problem between member states and not a problem outside the member states. let us take agriculture as an example. today, we're talking about milk, meat, fruits and vegetables. there is unfair competition between states on the issue of posted workers, but also on the abusive support of certain states for their agricultural sectors and i believe that it would be dangerous today to look at china in a negative way, when we are responsible for what is happening within the union itself. so even if there is some progress, i believe that today, in the final analysis, it will be the commission that will be responsible for adopting the new anti-dumping measures. i have no confidence in the european commission and that is why we shall abstain on this report.
madam president, commissioner, after a year's delay, we have finally reached agreement on a new anti-dumping methodology. the strong mobilisation of the european parliament and the companies affected by the dumping was heard by the commission, which demonstrated that it could change its position without attributing market economy status to china. this is what we expect from innovation and above all from efficiency. this is a great step forward, but two other pillars are still missing if europe is to be considered legally equipped to face the harsh reality of globalisation: firstly, the reform of trade defence instruments and, of course, secondly, the national mechanisms for screening foreign investment which are still to be defined. this new ambition is the answer to the expectations of our businesses and our citizens, but i regret that you cannot guarantee me that europe will provide itself with the human and financial means to achieve its ambitions. i can assure you, however, that my vigilance over the application of this new method will not be relaxed.
madam president, madam commissioner, this report is undoubtedly a step forward for europe, european businesses, employees and consumers. it is also good to note that we have come a long way: i recall that two years ago leaders in the commission and the council considered granting china market economy status without discussion, even though this would have been a major historical mistake. in all our countries, we can measure the damage of unfair chinese competition. i could mention several sectors - ceramics, paper, glass, steel - which are threatened and territories which are also threatened. i must say that parliament has shown responsibility in this. we have shown a united front, united among ourselves, united with the trade unions, united with the professional organizations, in proposing substantial amendments - i thank the rapporteur, salvatore cicu, of course - which represent a step forward in the burden of proof, as has been said, a step forward in the reporting, which is very important because it is the cornerstone of the new system, and above all a step forward in a new definition of dumping. what will be left of this debate, i think, is that we are extending the definition of dumping to social and environmental issues and we are happy about that. finally, and this has not been said until now, we are allowing trade unions and smes, which until now had been forgotten, access to anti-dumping proceedings. so, yes, it is definitely a step forward. but let us be realistic, ladies and gentlemen, there is still one important piece of the puzzle missing, because if europe cannot protect itself more - and i am talking about the issue of trade defence instruments - then all the work we have done collectively will not bear fruit. let us therefore remain vigilant, let us remain firm for a europe that protects and a europe that knows how to enforce rules and standards.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in may 2016, a resolution of our parliament made it clear that china did not meet the conditions for being granted market economy status. there was urgency because 15 years after its admission to the world trade organisation, china was about to be given this precious sesame seed to flood our european markets even further. this is the very meaning of the word dumping, unloading, dumping in piles, in this case by container ships. granting china market economy status would have deprived our states of the possibility of subsequently taking anti-dumping measures. but to please the chinese, the european commission has proposed to abolish the distinction, which the wto makes, between countries with and without market economy status. in these circumstances, mr cicu's initial report was less bad than commissioner malmström's proposals, except that the soft consensus on which we will have to decide tomorrow raises more questions than it now provides credible answers. today, the maximum rate of taxation on imports provided for in european legislation is 35%, which is ridiculous compared with the taxes decided, for example, by the united states to save their industry. just look at what the trump administration did last month with its arms race with canada's bombardier, after imposing a 220% surcharge on every c-series aircraft sold in the us, the commerce department added anti-dumping duties of almost 80%. so, as intra-european negotiations on modernising our trade defenses have been frozen since 2014, i invite you to listen to the speech delivered by president trump last friday in da nang, vietnam. we cannot tolerate chronic commercial abuse any longer, he said. that's what he said to the chinese president with the straight-talking that we know him for. as the european union is increasing its all-round free trade agreements, trump has announced the withdrawal of the united states from the trans-pacific partnership. so the president of the united states is defending the interests of his citizens over those of multinational corporations. we can and should do the same. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question for the council madam president, i have just heard what my colleague nicolas bay said and, indeed, the european parliament's 2016 resolution was a very important resolution, because it marked the will of parliament, almost in all its benches, to remind how much europe needed to protect itself. there is just one problem with your demonstration, that is that this resolution, you did not vote for it, you courageously abstained in committee and i this systematic distortion between words and deeds, that gives me a problem, so i wanted to take the audience to witness.
the answer is 'blue card'. my dear colleague, you are not new to this house and you know that very often very complex texts which are passed by committees or by the plenary contain quite different provisions and that sometimes one can appreciate one or another aspect, consider it to be a lesser evil, without appreciating a text as a whole, even when it has very negative effects on our economy. often the abstention is a nuanced position, a reserved position, a position of partial support. i suppose, i imagine and i dare hope that these are nuances that you do not miss. but the main thing is to put an end to the logic of free trade which is the european union's constant feature and which places our economy, our industries and our farmers in a situation of unfair competition which is unsustainable.
madam president, for 15 years, china has not been considered a market economy in the context of the wto, and that is why, of the 73 anti-dumping measures currently taken by the eu, 56 have been applied to imports from china. like the united states and japan, the european parliament has voted overwhelmingly against granting china market economy status, and the commission is playing a double game here. from the beginning, she made no secret of her ambitions to grant him favors. so, under the pretext of consumer protection, it is now back to the drawing board by proposing measures to allegedly combat dumping. no, a gesture towards the chinese will not oblige them to abandon mass production or to align their prices with market prices. it is a nonsense, an aberrant naiveté which borders on insolence and seriously jeopardizes our already declining industry. to regard china as a market economy would be to open wide the doors of our european economy to chinese products and to directly threaten thousands of european jobs. "if you touch him badly, he'll hurt you, if you touch him badly, he'll hurt you".
madam president, madam commissioner, the european parliament has played its full part in thwarting the commission's intention to grant china the status of a market economy in the simplest way in the world. we managed to install the safety gates, even though we had hopes for better. nevertheless, we have an opportunity to get our act together through the ongoing negotiation of trade defence instruments, for example, the environmental criteria, which have just been mentioned, are etched in stone. in europe, for every tonne of steel produced, an average of two tonnes of co2 is emitted. the same ton of steel produced in china emits three tons of co2. what about the extra ton of co2? will exporters have to buy pollution rights like any other european company or will we continue as before, that is to say, nothing? therefore, carbon adjustment at europe's borders is the indispensable tool to combat environmental dumping and also protect public health. and this is not against the rules of the wto, as you have often said. we must also send a positive message to the most virtuous: to do nothing is not only to increase unfair competition, but also to trample on the collective rules we have voted for. so let us be true to ourselves and strengthen trade defence instruments.
in writing. with the adoption of this new methodology, which is neutral and applicable to all types of countries, our message is clear: we refuse china market economy status. the european union must continue to combat unfair competition. we will therefore ensure that this new method is implemented so that no additional burden is placed on our companies, and more particularly on our smes. i would like to welcome the inclusion of environmental and social criteria as a first step towards strengthening trade that applies the same rules to all. but this new methodology is not an end in itself. it must be accompanied, and i hope very soon, by a genuine reform of our trade defence instruments, so that they become more effective, faster and more accessible. this is how we contribute to our goal of fair and equitable trade. thank you.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we are discussing relations between the european union and africa today, ahead of the eu/au summit in abidjan, côte d'ivoire, on 29 and 30 november. it will be an important summit and it is crucial that the european parliament's voice can be heard in this context. i should like to begin by thanking my fictitious colleagues for their cooperation. we have reached a balanced text which presents a strong position of the european parliament on the need to renew our partnership with africa. one of the major recommendations in our report is the need to strengthen political dialogue with the african continent. i am convinced that political dialogue must be increased between the two continents in order to establish a win-win partnership that responds to common challenges in a spirit of mutual sharing and respect. a paradigm shift is needed to move beyond the donor-recipient approach to an equal partnership approach. in this relationship between the european union and africa, we must nevertheless recognise the special links between us and the acp group of states. this is why we recall in our report the need to maintain this acquis, while improving it and strengthening the regional dimension in the post-cotonou process. while political dialogue needs to be strengthened to have a relationship that responds to shared challenges, this also requires making resilience a central focus of cooperation between the two continents. this resilience must be addressed in the five dimensions: political, security, economic, environmental and social. to promote political resilience, governance and respect for human rights should be the cornerstones of our partnership with africa and more frequent political exchanges between the different mixed parliamentary assemblies should be supported, so that there is no taboo. the security issue is also crucial in our relationship with africa. as we point out in the report, there are close links between development and security. without security there can be no development and vice versa. it is therefore necessary to strengthen cooperation between the two continents to combat organised crime, trafficking in human beings and terrorism. while the european union is a major player in ensuring security on the african continent, all african countries and regional organisations must also be involved in peace and security. it is important that africa builds its own capacities. a major challenge is also to ensure the economic resilience of both continents by creating quality jobs. this must be achieved through investments in key sectors such as the blue economy, research, digitalisation, but also energy, basic infrastructure and agriculture. the decisive role of the private sector and smes is emphasized in our report, because we all know that it is necessary to create wealth on the african continent. and this wealth created must remain there. every year, more than $50 billion is illegally smuggled out of africa. this is more than official development assistance. we need to strengthen the tools to fight tax evasion and corruption, which are a prerequisite for sustainable development. environmental and social resilience are also important elements of our report. in addition to the demographic challenges we need to address, the issue of climate change is crucial for the african continent, given the increasing number of natural disasters in the last 10 years and their increased intensity. finally, migration and mobility are issues in our relationship with africa which we cannot avoid. the migration flows we know must be better controlled and not suffered. i believe it is important that the phenomena be tackled in a coordinated and comprehensive way between the two continents, involving the countries of origin, transit and destination, in order to make it a tool for the development of the two continents, which requires a long-term approach. finally, several european initiatives are worth mentioning, such as the edf, the various trust funds and migration partnerships, which should help to combat the root causes of irregular migration. in order to put in place sustainable solutions, it is urgent that the member states participate financially in the various funds set up at european level, as president juncker has recalled. there are many challenges to overcome if the 218 million people living in extreme poverty on the african continent are to be lifted out of it. this is a challenge we must face together and i sincerely hope that the next summit in abidjan will provide answers.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, 33 of the 47 least economically developed countries in the world are in africa. 218 million people live in extreme poverty. these figures are all the more worrying as official forecasts suggest that africa, which currently has a population of one billion, will have two and a half billion by 2050. it is therefore urgent to help africa, out of solidarity with africans, but also in our own interest, because if we do nothing, we will experience an unprecedented migration flood. to help africa, the european union must increase its subsidies to africa under the european development fund. the european countries must also honour their commitment to devote 0.7% of their gdp to development aid, in order to intensify their cooperation with africa. the ponga report is right to recall these objectives, in particular by taking up jean-louis borloo's proposal to electrify africa. but he's disappointed in three ways. firstly, by wanting to hand africa over to free global trade, which would mean ruining its traditional agriculture when it should be encouraged instead. secondly, by not sufficiently supporting the g5 sahel, the african counter-terrorism intervention force, created by five african states, with the help of france. finally, by wanting to promote legal immigration and by singing the praises of, quote, "the positive effects of migration", because i think that europe needs children more than migrants. its future depends on the development of a natalist policy and not on the flood of migration, legal or not.
mr president, it seems to me more urgent than ever to think about decolonization, because relations between europe and africa are still based on a relationship of domination, with free trade agreements that deprive africa of its own possibilities, organize the plundering of its resources and hand it over to the macabre game of multinationals. let me hear the great voice of aimé césar here: africa, your sun tiara with blows of a corset up to the neck they turned it into a prison; your vision they pierced in the eyes; prostituted your modest face; "mute, howling that was guttural, "your voice, that spoke in the silence of the shadows. africa, don't be afraid the fight is new, i close the quotes and say: in the eu-africa relationship, let's not perpetuate the mistakes of the past and let's not make africa what europe wants it to be.
the rapporteur. mr president, i will be very brief in thanking the members who spoke this evening in the debate on this report. i also inform you that it will be put to the vote on thursday. i hope it will be adopted. it will be our road map and our word at this summit in abidjan. i would like to conclude by saying that we hope that this summit will provide solutions to the challenges we have discussed tonight.
mr president, commissioner, the title of the action plan you are proposing links together the natural environment, the population and the economy. that's a fair balance to strike. the conservation of biodiversity is an objective which we must share with the population, with all the population, those directly affected by the measures taken as well as those more distant. natura 2000 is thus a constructive approach if it is accompanied by sufficient means for its implementation, allowing the adoption of new practices by the population and the development of an active and dynamic economy. but that's not the case with our current management of large predators, large carnivores in particular. the commission is trying to maintain strict protection of the wolf, without taking into account the impacts on livestock and the life of rural areas, including tourism. today, the farmers have tried everything. they have no effective means of protection against the predation of the wolf, a determined, intelligent and rough-hewn animal. the idyllic vision of the wolf is an urban approach far removed from the real life of the territories it frequents. i'm coming with you. commissioner, let me ask you two questions: have you ever had to deal with a desperate shepherd who collapsed in tears in front of you? are you prepared to call for a revision of the berne convention?
mr president, what crimes are poland's legitimate government accused of? the crime of truth: poland refuses to submit to the media and its false propaganda organized by the globalist and europeanist oligarchy. the crime of justice: poland refuses the massive immigration imposed by germany for its economic growth, while the poles have to go abroad to find work. the crime of sovereignty: poland refuses to allow judges to exercise the sovereign power of the people, because justice is done in the name of the people. in short, you accuse poland of being poland, of resisting, as it knows how to do, the oppression of the new european order, which is a disaster for our peoples and our nations. you accuse it of preserving its identity by opposing your religion, which is a globalist, destroyer of law, of justice, an individualist, relativist, nihilist religion, opposed to the law of god and therefore to human rights. poland will remain poland. it has resisted the barbarism of nazism and communism, and it will resist european totalitarianism. long live poland!
in writing. since coming to power, the conservative party has been working to dismantle all the counter-powers necessary for democracy. the powers of the government have been considerably expanded with the reform of the judiciary which gives the executive discretionary power over judges and the constitutional court. the government is also attacking individual freedoms, media freedom and overly critical civil society. the justice department has, for example, withheld funds from women's rights organizations, while funding religious movements. i am very concerned about the violations of women's sexual and reproductive rights as the government attempts to harden or even ban abortion altogether. more than a year ago, we all welcomed the commission's decision to commit, for the first time since its creation, to the european rule of law framework. but this has had no noticeable effect and the union is merely acknowledging the seriousness of the situation. parliament is taking its responsibilities today with this resolution. we call on the committee on civil liberties to prepare a report for the activation of article 7.1, leading to sanctions. this illiberal regime at the heart of the union is intolerable.
mr president, i know that you are very concerned about respect and good debate. this morning we had a debate on poland and... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, mr verhofstadt has compared the protests in poland to auschwitz. this is not possible, poland has suffered enough not to make such a confusion. (the president cut off the speaker)
the russian revolutions of 1917 were a major event that changed the course of history and shook the world. fuelled by the anger of an oppressed population against an autocratic and deeply unequal system, they brought an end to the tsarist regime. this revolt held the hope of a new, more just and united society. these aspirations and ideas, which were perverted by the coup d'état and then by the stalinist dictatorship, are part of our heritage, as were those of 1789 and 1848. they give us a better understanding of how to change society to secure the future. without democracy, there is no equality. no change so radical makes sense if it is not just. exploitation has not disappeared, nor have injustices. many europeans feel abandoned, ostracized by society. unemployment, poverty, and growing inequality are rampant. resignation and anger are there. without a response to the wishes of our people that our institutions be attentive, responsive and effective, it is our democracy that will be put at risk. indeed, it is this exasperation and fear that are the breeding grounds for extremism that targets democracy. in order to restore the confidence and hope of europeans, we call for the creation of a new europe based on four pillars: a social, ecological, fundamental rights-respecting and profoundly european europe. let us not hide the fact that liberalism is a dead end and national populism a threat. we call for a change in europe.
mr president, i would like to end by mentioning the communist totalitarianism that emerged from the bolshevik revolution, which itself was the heir of the french revolution. in fact, all revolutionaries have the same hatred of the natural order, the same desire to wipe out the past, the same denial of any transcendence, the same violence against the recalcitrant, a violence that goes as far as murder, mass murder, genocide, as in cambodia or ukraine. however, i can only regret the abusive assimilation expressed in the moving testimony of mrs kalniete and mr maasikas about what they now call populisms. how does the defence of our identities, which are expressed only peacefully through elections, unjustly discriminated against even in this chamber, have anything to do with communism? mr timmermans quoted vaclav havel, was he not very critical of our institutions? let us heed the warning of dissident bukovsky, who feared that a new european soviet union would be formed.
mr president, the celebration of the centenary of the bolshevik revolution on 8 and 9 november in parliament in brussels and the title of today's debate 'laws of the bolshevik totalitarian revolution of 1917' are an insult to all the victims of communism and their families, including my own. how dare you speak of "legs"? what legacy is this? the excellent exhibition organized by our colleague, marek jurek, has reminded us that the crimes committed in the name of communism, which resulted in more than 100 million deaths, have never been officially and definitively condemned, as was the case, and rightly so, with the crimes of the nazis. i have been in this house for over three years and i have heard the words 'tolerance' and 'democracy' hundreds of times, with an unconcealed eagerness, moreover, to interfere in the governments of sovereign nations, under the pretext that they flout european values or that they are, as we have heard, populist, that is to say that they defend their peoples, first of all, which is the exact opposite of communism. i am thinking of course of hungary, poland and russia. it is a coincidence that these are the countries which paid a very heavy price to the soviet union. today, these countries are fighting more than others to preserve the identity of their peoples. they want to restore their christian roots, they are not ashamed of it and they want to defend the family and the concept of saving the nation, in short, everything that communism has worked hard to destroy for 70 years. and yet, some continue to distil its deadly ideology. no complacency is acceptable. we should all here make a solemn commitment that our people will never have to go through this again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the title of this debate, 'the legacy of the totalitarian bolshevik revolution', can of course invite us to remember the 100 million deaths of communism just a few days after the anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. this appalling ideology, which has bled not only europe but many other countries of the world, and which continues to flourish in a number of countries and oppress a number of peoples. but of course there were ulterior motives behind the desire to impose this debate today in our parliament, trying to lash out at russia today, which obviously has nothing to do with communism yesterday. today's russia is a great power which is a natural ally of our european nations and we have only disadvantages in ignoring this reality. on the other hand, there are also questions about the european union's orientations. the european union is increasingly disregarding the peoples, it is castigating hungary or poland, because the democratic choices of the peoples are contrary to the guidelines of the european commission, this is one of the aspects of totalitarianism. and then, it is clear that we want to go further and further, by forced march, towards a federalist european union, as the ussr once functioned.
mr president, today we are celebrating the sad anniversary of the bolshevik revolution, which gave birth to the ussr, responsible for the death of 15 million people. let us never forget the ravages of communism and nazism. this duty of memory is essential to combat the two ideological totalitarianisms that today threaten our old continent. the first is the one of the globalists who want a global jungle without economic protection, without customs barriers, the effects of which are devastating for employment. this globalism encourages financial speculation, social dumping and tax evasion. with this globalism, these are undignified and precarious living conditions for millions of europeans whose suffering you do not hear. the other danger is that of the immigrationists who are imposing on our european nations millions of migrants, when we are already experiencing a migration flood. these two dictatorships, no one has the right to challenge them. woe to those who dare to criticize the single-mindedness, for they will be branded as populists, xenophobes, racists or far-right.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, colleagues, global greenhouse gas emissions are on the rise again. the cop 23 climate summit is being held a few kilometres from here in germany, and what is being heard? that we must act. everyone knows that we must act. but what are we doing in practice to meet the cop 21 targets and limit warming to two degrees by the end of the century? everyone knows that this requires, among other things, that the transport sector finally reduce its co2 emissions, which have increased by 30% since 1990. then everyone knows. well, no, because there is a small group that resists, it's the car manufacturers, they alone refuse to face reality. unfortunately, with your unambitious proposal, they can sleep easy. why are you simply setting a target of 30% reduction in co2 emissions when several european countries are calling for a 40% reduction by 2030? why just incentivise manufacturers to produce 15% of these clean vehicles by 2025 when we would need a mandatory quota, like china, which will produce 10% by 2019? why reward them with the right to pollute more if they produce these clean vehicle quotas, and not impose any penalties if they do not? your proposal does not meet the challenge. these are issues that concern citizens, since the pollution issue is not being addressed, employees, since the basis for a sustainable conversion of the sector in europe is not being laid, and european consumers, who still cannot benefit from genuine clean mobility. so i am not talking about future generations, i am talking about the present generations, my dear colleagues, about the children who are in your schoolyards and who breathe pollution, about the people who discovered two years ago that they were victims of a gigantic diesel fraud and who are now being asked to trust the car manufacturers. the climate emergency, it's here. we all know we're dancing on a volcano. if trump has decided to do nothing, well europe, it must be able to be the leader in action, then we will accompany you in your action, because we can no longer talk about global warming, but about climate peril.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the union's policy is to develop trade between member states more and more. cars produced in romania or the czech republic go to france or spain, which sends its tomatoes to denmark or germany, which sells its pigs to italy or greece. this policy, which is being pursued and financed by the union, has an overwhelming environmental and social cost. it is right to want to promote combined river or rail transport when social dumping has multiplied the transport of goods by road. the reduced emission standards for light vehicles will not change this. we need a paradigm shift. it is local production and consumption that would significantly reduce polluting emissions. then the commission will be able to seriously propose its five-year plans to create billions of alternative energy supply points, energy sources that pollute as much as conventional fuels, starting with electricity, largely and for many years still produced by coal, oil or even nuclear power stations, with their waste having a lifespan of a thousand years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, cop 23 opened last week in bonn, just before the commission published the follow-up to its 'mobility' package. the stars seem to be aligning to produce effective legislation to combat greenhouse gas emissions. the urgency is all the more acute as we have just learned that emissions are rising again this year, increasingly threatening our ability to stay below the two degrees mark for average warming. but while there are some interesting elements in the commission's package, the fact remains that the overall ambition falls far short of what the climate crisis requires. the introduction of emission standards for heavy goods vehicles was essential, as was the definition of low-emission vehicles. but the flexibility in the quantified targets for clean vehicle production is regrettable. the commission of inquiry into emissions fraud completed its work in april this year and the way is already being paved for further exceedances of the emission ceilings. the commission has not yet indicated that co2 emissions will be measured under real driving conditions, as will nitrogen oxide emissions. it's very unfortunate. the european union is a leader in the fight against pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, but if we rely on our laurels, if we let immediate economic contingencies dictate our long-term political priorities, then who will be the driver of the exit from fossil fuels that are so harmful to health and the climate?
mr president, madam ombudsman, before i address you on a serious matter, i too would like to congratulate you on your excellent work and thank you for it. at the last part-session here we voted a very important resolution on the means which the european parliament will use to combat sexual harassment. i imagine that you have witnessed, as we have, with horror, this scandal that is shaking the whole of society about the facts of sexual harassment and assault. unfortunately, i say this and i will repeat it again, i am not saying that this parliament is full of harassers and full of harassed people, but nevertheless this phenomenon exists and, despite the vote on this excellent resolution, i can already feel the brakes and the resistance inside, including from the administration. we need your excellence and objectivity here. therefore, could you help us to do this work of study, investigation, analysis and foresight, not to judge the european parliament, but above all to help us to improve, to help us to be better? we have already, it is true, the merit of having an anti-harassment committee, but i do not think it is appropriate for sexual harassment. therefore, we need your attention and i would like you to help us in this work. in the next few days i will take the liberty of sending you an e-mail to give you some analysis and i will of course be at your disposal if you consider it useful. but please, share with us this goodness and this great work that you are doing so that we can be even better tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to echo my colleagues, and i think we all feel that european environmental law, the acquis, is an extremely important part of european law and that it is not just important to adopt the right but also to check how much of it is implemented in national legal systems and, therefore, how much is actually implemented. and it is good that colleagues here today have raised this question, because i know from my own experience that we often pass legislation which is not always well implemented and not always well used at the national level. and in the environmental field, i think this is a particularly important issue. i welcome the commission's information that evaluation reports on the state of the environment are being prepared. i want to emphasize and recommend that, in addition to criticising the shortcomings of individual member states, positive examples should also be highlighted, that there should be more dialogue with individual member states rather than just criticism if there are shortcomings, because then we will have a natural resistance to the environmental acquis in individual member states, and that is something that nobody wants. i am also glad that the commission representatives here have said that the environment council will be debating more about the implementation of these regulations in the future. i think this is right, because it is much better when individual countries exchange experiences with each other about what they know about the implementation of these laws and when they share their own experiences. this is perhaps even more appropriate than the commission playing the role of the one who reprimands individual member states. i don't think that's very effective. so this is important, and i'm glad we're discussing this point here.
madam president, the review of the implementation of environmental policy includes 28 reports analysing the performance of the member states in implementing this legislation. however, there are specificities and profound differences between each country in legal, environmental and public policy matters. it is therefore illusory to want to improve the comparability of data between countries which are not comparable. the oral question to the council asks states to support the extension of the scope of the environmental policy implementation review to the regulation on chemicals, industrial emissions and climate change, while pointing to a lack of funding. yet, according to the commission's website, €180 billion is already being spent on climate action, or 20% of the union's 2014-2020 budget. i therefore oppose the examination of the implementation of environmental policy becoming a pit for the net contributor countries, which will probably have to finance these additional billions.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the objective of the lópez report is to raise the commission's awareness of economic inequalities in the european union. this is a huge ambition, because the brussels areopagus has little interest in the poor. but the report does not live up to its promise. he betrays the cause of the poor he claims to defend. it betrays it by concealing the responsibility of european austerity policies for the production of poverty, because it is the ultra-liberalism of the union that condemns the weakest to precariousness and misery. in doing so, it strengthens the parties it calls populist in their nationalist struggle. without the courage to make the union take responsibility for poverty, the catalogue of good intentions it displays is not credible. in the end, the lópez report reveals the blindness of europe in social matters. the european union does not want to look its poor in the face.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, inequality must not be a matter of chance. they are deep, with more than 20% of people at risk of poverty or exclusion in europe, but they are also overcomeable. so let us work at european level, as well as at national level, to provide concrete answers. while i do not want to give a hierarchy to the difficulties faced by our citizens, i would like to stress a new form of inequality: digital inequality. so yes, for me, the digitisation of the economy and society creates many opportunities for our citizens, but not enough yet and not for everyone yet. we must therefore make proposals in this direction and, in my view, three projects are priority. first, i believe that we must first and foremost address the digital divide. too many rural areas are still without broadband, which isolates these areas, discourages businesses from moving in and thus penalises those who live, work and seek employment there. secondly, digital skills must be developed in initial training, but also throughout the career, in order to prevent technological unemployment. thirdly, we need to address the issue of the law applicable to digital platforms, which may leave some employees in a precarious situation. i say yes to the development of these new economic models, but this must be done in compliance with social and fiscal rules to ensure fair competition for companies and security and protection for our employees. we therefore need a fair framework for employment contracts. it is essential. and so we are waiting for the commission's proposals.
madam president, we are all very concerned about employment in europe and we are putting in place a number of measures which are still very inadequate. but the issue of gender equality in employment is particularly acute, because women are the first victims of the labour market, not because they are inferior to men, but because society as a whole has not yet integrated the notion of gender equality. the european union must take this issue very seriously in order to enable women to access employment. qualification, of course, is one of the components of success, but the support of women in their maternal function is also indispensable and i believe that this maternal function must absolutely be recognized as a fundamental function socially and be recognized as such in all its dimensions, including that of employment, of course.
in writing. the problem of economic inequality is more pronounced than ever in most member states of the european union. there are several causes of these economic inequalities: globalisation; changes in the labour market, including precarious employment; technological developments, including robotisation; the economic crisis and related austerity policies. the national front has been raising all these reasons for many years! our workers are losing their jobs because large companies prefer to produce in third countries, where labour costs are lower, and globalisation facilitates this relocation. they are losing jobs because of the robotisation, which is being encouraged excessively by the eu, without serious study of the risks of unemployment. finally, the precarious nature of employment is becoming more and more alarming. originally a consequence of the economic crisis, it has developed with the implementation of european austerity policies. mr lopez's report seems to 'forget' these reasons. on the other hand, he proposes to combat populism which 'feeds on inequalities, endangering the european project', and to 'include migrants in all actions which should solve these problems'.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, for more than three years the russian embargo has deprived some european fruit and vegetable producers of export opportunities. to help these producers, the union adopted exceptional market measures which enabled the withdrawal of some 1.7 million tonnes. i would like to congratulate you on this, commissioner. despite this supply management system, which unfortunately is due to come to an end soon, production of products such as apples, peaches and nectarines is still suffering from profound imbalances. in view of the fact that the embargo is still in force, i therefore call on the commission to do everything possible to facilitate the mobilisation of operational programmes by producer organisations, in order to plan production more effectively in line with the market. i believe that our parliament has made progress in this area with the omnibus. these operational programmes will be able to use export support actions in case of crisis. we'll have to make full use of them.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the question posed here obscures the most important one, namely the origin of the problem. why has russia imposed an embargo on our agricultural products? it does so because of the european union, its sanctions and its aggressive policy. europe has looked at the speck in the eye of its russian neighbour, ignoring the beam in its own. in reality, she wanted to give a moral lesson to russia, to mr putin, that is the reality. and yet the european union's indignation is selective. where is it when the committee on international trade calls for the modernisation of our customs union with turkey? on the scale of the european union's values, would turkey be a more respectable partner than russia? where is the outrage when the european union grants trade preferences to ukraine, a country, i remind you, afflicted by civil war and corruption for the last four years. the commission must stop this hypocrisy. the russian embargo is a disaster for all european farmers and there are no 36 ways to stop it. we simply need to lift the european sanctions against russia, which have no place to be.
madam president, commissioner, i regret that our colleagues on the committee on foreign affairs are not participating in this debate in greater numbers and i thank you for being a member and for attending, because the problem we are trying to solve tonight is not just a matter for agriculture and it is not just a matter for your portfolio. however, commissioner, it is the commission's responsibility - and this is its function under the treaties - to manage the consequences of decisions taken by our states. you have understood this well, since you have constantly used the power you have to try to open up new markets. the figures have been recalled, and this work is bearing fruit today, without any bad wordplay. however, neither european producers nor consumers benefit from this work. prices are infinitely lower for the former. this is particularly the case for pears, apples, peaches and nectarines. the prices are not really attractive for the european consumer either. so, commissioner, madam president, do we not have to ask ourselves once again how the food chain works? are there not actors in europe who are taking advantage of this situation? commissioner, the omnibus has taught us to work with mrs vestager. shouldn't we be mobilizing his services on this issue as well?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have nothing against new zealand. what strikes me about this text, the text of its rapporteur, is the relationship between religion and free trade. neither the failure of nafta, nor the us withdrawal from tafta, nor the opposition of our public opinion to aecg, dissuade you from continuing on this path. the threats to our agriculture, and especially to the livestock industry, posed by new zealand's intensive agribusiness have been deliberately ignored. by extending free trade unlimitedly and unconditionally, you are preventing our states and parliaments from protecting the food security and independence of the peoples of europe and ensuring the survival of our economies. the european union's march towards borderlessness destroys the very reason for europe, because it shows your search for a world government. we must leave these deadly european institutions if we are to save the european project.
author. mr president, the gue/ngl group did not join this resolution, not because the case of mr zine al-abidine is not symbolic of the violations of press freedom in sudan, a press which is constantly subjected to direct or indirect censorship, in particular through the regular confiscation of newspapers, but because it does not live up to the human rights violations perpetrated in that country. ngos keep telling us that the situation there remains unchanged, especially in darfur. the bombing continues and there have even been reports of the use of chemical weapons. moreover, there is no safety for the population outside the camps. president al-bashir, who is still under an arrest warrant from the international criminal court, wants to dismantle these camps at the very moment when the un is drastically reducing the presence of the minuad by 44%. i am afraid that the human rights situation in sudan will be sacrificed on the altar of european migration policies and saudi friends, given the weight of sudanese troops in yemen. this may even make our 'rights' mission even more difficult in december. i'm really sorry about that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the debate on five motions for resolutions on the terrorist attacks in somalia (2017/2962 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, somalia is one of the greatest african tragedies. torn since the end of the cold war, the country is facing all the plagues of the african continent: islamism, ethnic divisions, resource plundering and western and african interference. we often fail in development in africa because we lack a comprehensive and conscious approach to the ground. we too often forget that development and security must go hand in hand. i would like to emphasize the courage of the external services, our external services, and in particular the commission, which wanted to establish themselves there, on the spot. this is in line with the good practice of a field approach. we must, however, avoid an overly liberal approach, because we believe that development can be achieved without the state and without protectionism. in this respect the lomé agreements are much more advanced than the current cotonou agreements. i am sure that joint parliamentary work will bring this approach to co-development to a positive conclusion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on madagascar (2017/2963 ((rsp)).
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i wonder what the value of the recommendations on press freedom in madagascar is, when whistleblowers are brought to justice in europe. what is the moral force of the recommendations on respect for fundamental rights, when european companies are violating the rights of millions of workers worldwide? what is the value of the recommendations for the reform of the mining code in the big island, when we fail to denounce the plundering of land and the exploitation of mineral resources by european companies? it would have been better to address these recommendations to the german company tantalus, which has acquired 300 kilometres of land at the expense of malagasy farmers. in fact, as always, under the guise of human rights, it is always through economic interference, political interference that what we are obsessed with here is pursued, that is to say the interests of the european union, european countries and european multinationals.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, listening to some people, i can see that they are a little disconnected from what exactly is happening in madagascar. the shortcomings of madagascar in terms of democracy do not justify the reduction of its population to poverty. my colleagues have rightly pointed out the dramatic consequences of the freezing of european funding from 2009 to 2014, since this country is 50% dependent on international aid. madagascar is no more immune than europe from islamist infiltration and the terrorist risk is now tangible. in this respect, europeans, like the international community as a whole, must refrain from any interference with the question of the muslim khoja minority. madagascar is, above all, facing an inextricable economic situation, since the worsening inequalities since 2005 and the failing infrastructures jeopardise any hope of recovery. a considerable effort will be needed to improve the living conditions of the 92% of malagasy who survive on less than two euros a day. for example, developing local shrimp farming - the best in the world - would be a breakthrough. the ravages of the plague, which killed 127 people in august and october, are the latest tragic symptom of this extreme poverty. the european intervention is crucial as the malagasy authorities struggle to cope with this health crisis which, according to the world health organization, is expected to continue until april next year. our mobilization is therefore urgent to get madagascar out of the rut of chronic instability of famine and disease.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
president of the committee on budgets. madam president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the conciliation committee reached agreement on the draft 2018 budget in the early hours of the morning on the night of 17-18 november. once again we have been able to measure the narrowness of our room for manoeuvre in a particularly tight budgetary framework, but, ladies and gentlemen, we have reasons for satisfaction which i would like to share with you. first of all, the mid-term review is not a bible. each year's budget discussion gives us the opportunity to get back to work. in other words, the european parliament retains its prerogatives to discuss the budget each year. secondly, we have managed to erase the cuts made by the council, by reinstating the majority of the appropriations it had cut in order to preserve margins for alleged unforeseen expenditure, in particular the extension of the budgetary facility for turkey to allow that country to host syrian refugees. we reached an agreement because our priority was to re-fund the programmes under heading 1a, those that are the best performing, those that prepare our future and protect europeans: research through horizon 2020, youth mobility through erasmus, erasmus+ and erasmus pro - two programmes which, unfortunately, are frustrating because we do not have the means to respond to all the good research projects, nor to all the requests made by young people for their mobility - also the interconnection mechanism, through the connecting europe facility, and support for smes through the cosme programme. these reinforcements are all the more valuable because, ladies and gentlemen, they are provided with fresh money. we have also been able to complete the resources allocated to security, police and judicial cooperation and the strengthening of asylum and neighbourhood policy. it is our duty to ensure that expenditure is appropriate, that it adds value. we have a duty to appease our spending urges. we have therefore seen the need to make savings by reducing the appropriations for turkey's pre-accession. i understand that some of our colleagues would have liked to see the youth employment initiative expanded. let it be clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we all share the same desire to combat youth unemployment, a scandal that is a cancer in our society. but i would remind you that an amendment of 116 million at the initiative of the european parliament increased the credit line by 50% and that the commission has committed itself, as necessary if the appropriations were exhausted, to present a draft amending budget during 2018. i would like to say, on a personal note, if you will allow me, that i would like to see us implementing concrete, structural measures to combat youth unemployment effectively and to promote apprenticeship and the mobility of apprentices, but also to mobilise in their favour. the few european countries which have this practice in their culture, namely germany, the netherlands, austria and denmark, have in common a particularly low rate of youth unemployment. overall, i believe that parliament can be satisfied with the draft budget for 2018. i thank the architects of the agreement we reached in the conciliation committee: the estonian presidency, which spared no effort to reach an agreement, commissioner oettinger and his teams, who were also extremely diligent, presenting us with several versions of what could be an agreement in the conciliation committee. i would also like to congratulate our rapporteurs, mr siegfried mureşan, who has been an admirable general rapporteur, as have mr ashworth and mr geier. i thank them for the quality of their work. ladies and gentlemen, i hope and pray that many of us will be voting tomorrow on the draft budget of the european union for 2018.
madam president, i would like to sincerely congratulate our rapporteurs, mr mureşan, mr geier and mr ashworth, on the work they have done and also thank the commissioner and his team. at the end of the negotiations, i wanted to highlight some good news that constitutes real increases obtained by parliament: 110 million for the horizon 2020 programme to invest in the future, 54 million for erasmus, 116 million for the youth guarantee. that's what i'm worried about. the mid-term review we had been so committed to was a real review and not a gimmick. in practical terms, these increases will also be able to meet pressing needs. however, we must admit that these few sparks are not enough to illuminate a more gloomy picture: a drop of 230 million for farmers, nothing on humanitarian aid and only 3.5 million on agriculture. i also regret the cavalier way in which the negotiations have been conducted. parliament must not tolerate it any longer. it is no longer acceptable that the council should present its position only a few days before the deadline, thus putting the knife to the throat of parliament. it is difficult to accept that ministers parade in gothenburg but no one dares to negotiate the budget. and how can we be satisfied that after midnight the ambassadors desert while the crucial points are still to be discussed? but above all, how can we tolerate the council's insincerity, which is reflected in this budget by requiring that extravagant margins be maintained in order to finance the facility for turkey at a later date, while, of course, showing a reduction in the pre-accession envelope. the list would be too long, but the conclusion is short: the numbers are not there and the socialist and democratic group will not be able to support this budget. i propose that in future parliament refuses to enter into negotiations until the council has a clear mandate. i hope above all that the council and parliament will be able to draw up a budget based on real needs and not on national egos and hidden projects, and with resources coming mainly from own resources. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr rübig, first of all we must be sure that the 350 million is not an advance on the funding but an advance. at the moment, this is not very clear. and to answer your question concretely, tomorrow we will abstain.
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the members of my political group who defended our priorities during the budgetary conciliation in a difficult climate, facing once again an inconsistent council that was little aware of its responsibilities. but today, ladies and gentlemen, i am sick of my europe. the european parliament has made some progress on heading 1, including erasmus and youth employment, and on heading 2, with a boost to the establishment of young farmers, but this is only a drop in the ocean of needs that we regularly mention in this house. these new policies, often relevant, which the council proposes to us, without providing the necessary funds, force us to strip paul to dress peter. every year, it's the same process, and every year, we give in. i am sorry, but today the only weapon i have to try to move the lines and take responsibility is not to vote on this budget.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have taken up the many speeches and will take them into account for budget implementation measures and also as important advice for the budgetary framework for the next decade. i do not think that it is possible to say: 'the current budgetary framework is not working.' with flexibility and other instruments, we can tackle the most important tasks and expenditures in all problems. nevertheless, mr geier, we can learn from this for the next budgetary framework by trying to integrate external funds and instruments in order to strengthen the parliament's sovereignty and, secondly, to measure total revenue somewhat more closely along the lines of known expenditure plus new challenges, not yet foreseeable but likely, which always arise over a seven-year period. it is all too obvious now, after four years. the budgetary framework was overwhelmingly approved, but it was also strongly criticised. i regret that only one of the harsh critics remained in the chamber. the question of the united kingdom's withdrawal was raised by some of those who were absent. we haven't reached an agreement yet. but one thing is clear: we have a budgetary framework that was unanimously adopted and runs until the end of 2020. the uk government also agreed to this in december 2013. it consists of revenue, commitments and payments, i.e. expenditure. and if we commit ourselves to major infrastructure projects - railway, road or research projects - in these years of the budgetary framework, we must expect all 28 parties to give us the revenue for the entire budgetary framework, so that expenditure decided unanimously can be financed without any disadvantage to any of the remaining member states. that is what i call consistency and fairness. we expect no more and no less. i repeat: the budgetary framework requires unanimity in the council. the uk government has agreed to the full volume by the end of 2020. i believe that we can show a lot of added value in this budget; that is important to me. we invest and create value by investing at european level and not just at member state level. firstly, research projects. in a dynamic research world, with silicon valley, the pentagon, beijing, shanghai and seoul at its disposal, we must see that with such important research objectives in the digital age, no member state - not even the big member states - and no company is able to create the speed of moving from research to development and production on its own. with european research teams delft, oxford, grenoble, munich, cambridge and with the research industry, we are able to stay ahead of global competition where we are ahead and keep up where we are currently lagging behind. clear added value for each member state, for the european labour market, for european economic strength and competitiveness. a second example is cohesion. as a citizen of a net contributor member state, i am proud that part of the money that taxpayers, among others from germany, give to the european budget goes to bulgaria for infrastructure projects. the average per capita gdp in europe is €30 000, in luxembourg it is €90 000 and in bulgaria €6 500. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why we must not bring luxembourg down by continuing cohesion policy, but bring bulgaria, latvia, lithuania, estonia and romania up. this is a clear mandate from a continent of solidarity, which is also building peace across linguistic and territorial boundaries. i'm proud of this happening. i think we should all be proud of that, no matter where we come from, no matter how wealthy and competitive we are at the moment. a third example: no single member state has the authority to do something about climate change no single member state! this was demonstrated in copenhagen in 2009. there was no european strategy, no mandate for the european union. the opposite example: paris 2015. we shared common goals and shared common success. i think that our british friends, who rightly feel very strongly about climate protection, need to understand: without the european union, europe would no longer be relevant in the global discourse on climate change. the second example i want to mention is the often-disciplined agricultural budget. there is a lot that can be done to improve the environment and climate protection. but that we are trying to organise healthy food, enough food and intact countryside at 30 cents per european citizen per day, and we are doing it largely for 30 cents per citizen per day , is a low-cost investment in the european budget with great benefits for anyone who wants healthy food, drinks and regional cuisine in europe. i could give you other examples. i'll finish. of course, we can also save money in the european budget. but we must always see: of every 100 euros earned by a european citizen through manual labour, manual labour or capital investment, 40 to 50 euros go to the public purse. of these 40 to 50 euros, one euro will go to europe. the remaining 39 to 49 euros are in london, berlin, paris, rome, tallinn, the regions and the municipalities. that means we are basically only a forty to a fifty of what is spent from public funds, actually a very sparing event. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for this very interesting exchange of views. it has shown that, despite some differences, which are quite natural, we are united in our commitment to making progress for the benefit of europe and its citizens. the negotiations on the 2018 budget took place in complex circumstances and in my introductory remarks i also referred to some discussions, not only between the delegations, but within the delegations. in spite of this, we worked together in a constructive manner and were able to reconcile our positions on how to finance the different priorities and actions of the union. i am convinced that the agreement reached is a good and balanced result, allowing the union to act and to react to the various needs. thank you very much once more and i wish you wisdom for tomorrow’s vote.
president of the committee on budgets. madam president, we are at the end of a very interesting debate on the draft budget of the european union for 2018. i thank minister matti maasikas for reminding us that we have reached an agreement in the last three years. there was a feeling in the european parliament that we failed every other year. we failed at the end of 2014 on the draft budget for 2015, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to fail to have a better budget. as i recall, the version developed by the commission at the time did not make any significant changes. when fighting a battle, you have to be prepared to go all the way, including refusing to vote on the budget, but i did not find the support we could have imagined at the time. having said that, i would also like to convince my colleagues who have indicated to us that they might abstain tomorrow. i'd like to make sure there's no misunderstanding. firstly, mr viotti could be grateful to us for ensuring that the mid-term review is not an intangible bible, quite the contrary, and we have demonstrated this. mr viotti will be the general rapporteur next year and he will be grateful to us for having demonstrated this. mrs. thomas, i'd still like to try to convince her. first of all, you told us that there were not enough appropriations for humanitarian aid and, if i had a small complaint to make to our dear commissioner, it would be that he might have been able, during the budgetary conciliation, to tell us that he was preparing to carry out a project to transfer 62 million from the pre-accession appropriations for turkey to humanitarian aid. i do not want to be rude, commissioner, but i just want to say that this argument could allay mrs thomas's fears and convince her to vote in favour of this draft budget. secondly, she tells us that, as regards the youth employment initiative, she is basically afraid of the concentration of funds at the beginning of the period, and it is true that last year there was a footnote, but that footnote has disappeared. there were no comments, no restrictions on the part of the commission, on the vote on the 116 million amendment which was voted, so there are no restrictions, mrs thomas. i would like to take this opportunity to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that our budget, as has been pointed out, is 1% of the european gross domestic product and that 80% of this budget is pre-allocated to either the common agricultural policy or the cohesion fund, country by country, in euro, and to the institutions - the commission, parliament, the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors and a number of other european institutions. so i trust the commission. commitments have been made, particularly with regard to the court of justice, and i have no doubt that they will be respected. i also heard about the commitments that were to be made in relation to the wishes expressed by our colleague mr deprez concerning the aid that would be given to the victims of the attacks. i'm confident about this. so, for those of you, dear colleagues, who might have been hesitant, i would recommend that you vote tomorrow on this 2018 budget. this would be a way of preparing the next multiannual financial framework in a calm manner.
in writing. 2018 will remain the year of a budget without vision and ambition. firstly, there is no ambition for young people, because, while a whole generation is going through an unprecedented crisis, the european union is content with a series of schemes, from voluntary work to jobs without prospects, intended to temporarily remove some of the four million young people who are unemployed from the unemployment figures. the budget of erasmus+ is being slightly increased, in particular through cooperation funds which will allow its internationalisation to the detriment of young europeans. nor is there any ambition for research, since the projects which could have ensured europe's technological preeminence are now being cut off. because, of course, it is immigration and enlargement that are getting the lion's share, despite the disapproval of european public opinion. is it not therefore scandalous that, despite the violations of the rule of law, despite the hostility of europeans towards possible membership, €131 million will be paid to turkey in 2018? the funds for the balkans are also being increased, confirming jean-claude juncker's commitment to the accession process by 2025. this budget clearly betrays the spirit of a european union that is deaf to the aspirations of its peoples.
mr president, commissioner, two weeks ago, thunderstorms of exceptional intensity struck greece. the torrential rains caused extensive damage to property and killed 23 people. i would like to express my full support and solidarity with the greek people in this terrible ordeal they are going through. according to prime minister tsipras, this disaster is aggravated by, i quote, 'many shortcomings in public infrastructure'. in fact, major public works for drainage and renovation had been approved before being postponed. such a humanitarian disaster demonstrates the importance of quality public services that ensure the safety of citizens. the government is partly responsible for the continuing urbanisation of a region at risk, but the harms of the fiscal austerity policy imposed by brussels on the greeks have not solved anything. so today we are hoping for a strong move from the commission.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we will adopt, by an accelerated procedure, the conditions for the introduction of ifrs 9, which is an accounting standard for the transfer of incurred losses to expected losses, which has a direct impact on the accounting of loan losses. mr karas has just recalled that parliament, in its resolution of 6 december 2016, had requested such a procedure to adapt the conditions for the introduction of ifrs 9 in the financial statements, since this accounting standard will enter into force on 1 january next year. it was important to recognise that the transitional arrangements were necessary, because a sudden increase in provisions for expected credit losses would have led to a sharp weakening of regulatory capital ratios, at the very time when we are asking banks to consolidate them. but we need to look beyond this, because while this regulation mitigates the negative impact on banks' regulatory capital, the question of the impact of this standard on the financial stability of the union remains, even though the iasb has not yet carried out impact assessments. we will therefore have to take up a number of concerns which are already on the table as regards the risks of procyclical effects of this standard when a recession period begins, or as regards the question of the alteration of the distribution of credits between activities, or the risk of shortening the maturity of loans. this leads us, as parliament, in the same way as we said when ifrs 9 was adopted, to reiterate our call for a serious assessment of the impact of this standard, beyond the amendment which will already, as we know, be proposed next year. we must ensure that this standard does not weaken the conditions for longterm investment. this is perhaps why we want to ask the commission to look at the impact assessment of this standard without delay. in this context, we should recall the recommendations of the maystadt report, which called for us to reject any standard which would undermine the financial stability of the union and, if necessary, to consider the possibility for the european union to adopt either carve-outs or, i think, carve-ins, i.e. a possibility to add to what the iasb proposes to us when they define an accounting standard. these are some of the points i wanted to bring to our debate tonight.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the ifrs 9 accounting standard will significantly increase the volatility of bank balance sheets, particularly those of french banks. ifrs 9 will have a significant procyclical effect by generalising fair value instead of historical value. rules such as ifrs 9 are part of a multifaceted arsenal designed to weaken banking intermediation in financing the economy and to encourage its replacement by financing markets under the control of us actors. moreover, this rule will increase the propensity of large banks to approach a default when political timelines in a given country would make it possible to foresee that eurosceptic parties, which would of course not please the financial markets, would be on their way to being elected. we want strong banks, but ifrs 9 does not allow that. this rule, on the contrary, makes banks more vulnerable. we cannot continue any longer the process of weakening and dismantling the banks of continental europe, and especially french banks, for the greater benefit of american banks. in these circumstances, the simon report, which de facto amounts to a five-year delay in the application of ifrs 9, is therefore very positive and that is why we will support it.
the rapporteur. mr president, i will not, in the introduction to this debate, go over all the steps which led to our adoption, i hope, tomorrow of this amendment to the instrument for stability and peace. i will simply remind you that this is a process that started almost four years ago now, since it was at the council in december 2013 that the high representative considered an instrument to finance equipment for armed forces with which we have european union missions working on security and development. i would like to begin by thanking all the coordinators and members who have been involved in the work on this text. i would also like to thank our chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, mr mcallister, who led the trilogue negotiations, negotiations which were swift and fruitful. the commission has made a very considerable effort to find funding to meet parliament's requests, and i would like to thank all the parties involved in this very fruitful trilogue. to return to the substance of this instrument, i would point out that it is the missing link in the chain of european union instruments in the field of security and development. we now have missions with the armed forces in certain developing countries, missions which provide training but are not able to do so, which do not have the legal, practical or financial tools to provide equipment - which i would point out is not lethal - civilian equipment which enables these armed forces to support development operations, because we are talking about countries in which no development is possible without the assistance of the armed forces: mali, somalia, niger, the central african republic and many others unfortunately. i would also like to point out that the discussions we had were extremely rich and interesting, and that many points of view were expressed. i had a more ambitious vision for this instrument, and that's no secret. we have reached a compromise, which i think is a good compromise, and i would like to thank the groups who have participated. i also wanted to remind you because i always hear arguments that you should not be bad faith. firstly, this instrument is very well regulated legally, financially and politically. we can't do whatever we want and whatever with this instrument. secondly, this instrument is not used to finance the purchase or supply of arms. this is equipment that is non-lethal. i still see and read in the press, in particular, arguments which are totally biased, which are totally incorrect. the european union is not going to finance the purchase of arms in developing countries, that is not what this is about. we're talking about nonlethal equipment here. i say this very solemnly, very firmly, because i would not want to leave any doubt in this regard, and i would not have allowed the adoption of a text which would go in this direction. so we have a text which is balanced, which is strictly controlled, which is modest - it must be remembered that this is a substantial contribution in principle, but modest in financial terms, we are talking about 100 million for three years. and we also have a contribution today which does not exhaust the debate to come, and i say this in particular to the groups which had reservations: yes, we will need a more sustainable system in the future and this can be the subject of a political debate in the coming periods. but for now, i think we can be satisfied with the tool we have put in place, which will be very useful in practice for the european union missions deployed in these sensitive countries.
mr president, this proposal has the merit of seeking to strengthen the link between security and development that the european security strategy established in 2003. the security of a country is a necessary condition for its development. as charles péguy said, "order, and order alone, is freedom". the proposal is clearly intended to enable the european union to support the military forces of developing countries. at a time when islamist terrorism is destabilising many countries, particularly in africa, this initiative may at first seem relevant, but we must be clear-minded and know what we want. this proposal is part of a strategy to extend the eu's influence over the foreign and defence policies of its member states. i believe that foreign affairs and national defence must remain a matter for the sovereignty of states. this is a matter of principle, particularly for france, which remains a major diplomatic and military power. but it is also wise, because the union lacks realism. it has already failed to stop immigration from libya, to the point that italy had to take its place to solve the problem through a bilateral agreement. it is also giving moral lessons to the whole world and we shall soon see that its moralism will cause the failure of its policy of intervention. history teaches us that empires always end badly.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i thank all the colleagues who have taken part in this debate, of course, but also those who have contributed to the preparation of this text to enrich it and to make it a compromise, which i believe is entirely virtuous and useful. to those who are opposed to this text, i would like to say that i obviously respect all opinions and oppositions, but they must be in good faith and really be based on what is in the text and on the reality we are working on. there is no mention in the text that we are going to finance military equipment. we're going to finance civilian equipment for military forces. the reality is that we're going to fund hospitals and we're going to fund communications systems. is this military hardware? of course not! is it also useful to civilian populations? of course you can! that's what we're talking about. i would like the many colleagues who spoke against the text to read it first, to see what is in it and what is not, and to know a little about the reality of the countries in question. in mali, when you have a mission of the european union that trains malian soldiers, but cannot provide them with equipment - the malian army loses a soldier a day or a week - to treat these soldiers, do you think that this is contributing to the militarization of development? frankly, it's not honest to say that. it is not fair and it is not right in relation to the reality we are talking about. i hear colleagues say: 'we are going to militarize development aid through this instrument'. what are we talking about? it should be remembered that the development aid, the edf, is 31 billion euros. the instrument in question is eur 100 million. who can speak of the militarization of development with this instrument which does not even allow for the purchase of lethal equipment and weapons? once again, i think we have reached a very strict compromise, very legally framed and very politically binding. i thank all the colleagues who took part in it and i would like those who continue to oppose it for ideological reasons to show a little more pragmatism and realism to really see the needs we are meeting with this instrument.
mr president, a few days ago i was visiting the port of sète. it is the flower of the occitanie region's economy, generating over 2 000 jobs and seeing its activity increase by 17% over the last three years. it offers its territory a window on the world and valuable dynamism for the regional economy, both industrially and in terms of fishing or tourism. however, the free trade agreements imposed by the european union are now paying a heavy price: the brutal and unannounced competition of a local industry against foreign productions. here, the reduction in customs duties for argentine biofuel has a direct effect of a drop in activity of more than 30%. a hundred employees are on the hook and the life pool is now directly affected. i therefore call on the commission to commit itself to preserving local employment, to change course and finally to defend the interests of citizens and local industrial tools by genuinely protecting our internal markets at european level and by solidarity. solidarity is the opposite of competition.
mr president, the banking union is designed to cut off the possibility of mutual support between commercial banks and their home member state. this deepening of federalism comes after the breakdown of the political and economic link between european nations and their central banks, which dates back to the maastricht treaty, and prohibits any possibility of direct support of a state by its central bank. in both cases, the aim is to eliminate any financial recourse and economic support that a state might receive, in order to increase the pressure on the financial markets. market discipline must, in the german spirit, oblige the states to adopt fiscal austerity policies. conversely, since the brrd, it has been permanently forbidden for states to support their banks in the event of financial difficulties. we believe it is crucial to go backwards. the european union will never succeed in creating a functioning banking union. it is therefore in the interest of citizens and states to dismantle the banking union as soon as possible. rearranging the internal legal order of the states in order to harmonise the hierarchy of bank creditors is therefore not going in the right direction. we believe that voting against this text is a vote of consistency in defending savers against the leasing system.
mr president, when this parliament adopted the directive on bank recovery and resolution in the event of bankruptcy, our concern was to avoid contagion and access to taxpayers' money by allowing for internal bailouts. at the same time, to make this viable, market conditions have been worsened or, in some ways, strengthened with the rise of both european legislation and international standards, with the prospect of the entry into force of the ftaa. we therefore had to organise the build-up of a market that would allow the players to be ready to have the debt quality to meet these obligations. in fact, several member states had launched their own reform in anticipation of the european response, and the banking sector, since the agreement at the financial stability board (fsb) at the end of 2015, was affected by the tlac requirement. the markets themselves - as evidenced by the large volumes of tlac-eligible debt successfully issued by banks - reacted and anticipated the effects of this reform. the idea is to allow banks to build up subordinated debt cushions that improve their solvency without unduly constraining their cost of funding. that is why i think we can be glad that this parliament has helped to implement this new type of debt in an accelerated way so that the players can prepare. of course, there have been issues raised in trying to use this accelerated vehicle which we will have to deal with when we tackle the substantive revision of the brrd directive but, at this stage, i believe that the key is to allow market players and the market itself to anticipate the entry into force of the new international standards.
mr president, we have indeed experienced repeated banking crises, which were also remedied by the taxpayers, and it seems to me that it is high time for europe to legislate first to protect consumers and their deposits, then to enable banks to guarantee their internal stability, but it seems to me even more important, on the other hand, to enable banks to lend to the economic world in order to revive employment in europe. the legislative text has the merit of being balanced to meet these three objectives. by implementing a hierarchy of creditors we will stabilise the banking system, but we must not forget that we need a regulatory central bank in europe and parliamentary control of all banking movements.
mr president, a civilization can be judged by the way it treats the most vulnerable, particularly the disabled, and europe still has a lot of progress to make in this area. i thank mrs stevens for inspiring this beautiful report on the european strategy for the millions of disabled people living in the european union. i agree with most of its proposals, which are almost always respectful of the sovereignty of states. in particular, i agree with the request to them to ensure accessibility for persons with disabilities to public buildings, public services and communication technologies, in accordance with the requirements of the un convention of 13 december 2006. i myself have seen to it that it is applied on the ground, as a councillor. i do, however, regret that this report is sometimes polluted by considerations which have nothing to do with it, such as paragraph 22 which refers - and i quote - to the multiple discrimination arising from the intersection of gender, disability and sexual orientation. i think the lgbti lobby could have had the grace to hide from the real subject of the report: disability.
mr president, disability is too serious a subject to be satisfied with long and repetitive statements of intent. i therefore fully support the desire to implement the principles of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as soon as possible. in addition, national regulations and laws already exist. it is therefore in each state that it is necessary to ensure their effective application. as such, the european commission will hardly be credible in calling for, for example, stricter legal obligations on accessibility to public buildings, given the budgetary austerity that brussels imposes on a number of member states. although this report is quite comprehensive, it is regrettable that no mention is made of the mobility of disabled people on a daily basis. the importance of financial aid for the adaptation of vehicles, or the promotion of carpooling in companies between able-bodied and disabled people, could have been mentioned.
in writing. the aim of this text is to achieve a total absence of discrimination for disabled people in the context of a barrier-free europe, with actions in two stages: 2017-2020 and 2020-2030. i am of course in principle in favour of such a move. but make no mistake, this text has a very different scope: the creation of a market involving 120 million people, worth over €30 billion! i personally, as a disabled person with a visual impairment, would like to see this subject not exploited. i also regret the semantic difficulties encountered in the text on the definition of disability. disability is the sum of functional and/or cognitive deficits and not, as the text claims, the sum of the obstacles which society must remove in order for the disabled person to have a normal life. i therefore regret that this text has led to a normative cacophony and, more broadly, that it exploits the problem of disability and disabled people to justify captive markets.
mr president, my motion for a resolution will deal with articles 5 to 9 of our rules of procedure, amongst others, and with the text on the privileges and immunities of parliament. we are going to vote on a text concerning the immunity of one of our colleagues, mrs gomes, an immunity which i will personally defend with many of my colleagues, since the remarks against mrs gomes were made in the course of her duties. the only thing i do not understand is why this case law is valid in the case of mrs gomez and not in the case of mrs le pen, mrs troszczynski or others who, of course, speak as members of the european parliament, but who do not receive the same kindness from the legal affairs committee of this parliament. this seems extremely shocking to me, who was for a very long time a member of this legal affairs committee and a member of the special committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities.
this closes the voting period.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the issue of phosphates in meat has been the subject of considerable media coverage in a number of member states of the european union and we therefore believe that this subject deserves a debate in our plenary. that is why, on behalf of the epp group, i suggest that you register this debate on tuesday so that we can have a vote in plenary on wednesday.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i explained why i was asking for a debate on behalf of the epp group, for a debate on this issue, explaining that it has been terribly publicized. so if we have a debate on tuesday night, it is important to postpone the vote in plenary until wednesday, which is quite logical.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in france there is an old proverb that says 'the best is the enemy of the good'. the position of my group in this house is more often than not that the best is the enemy of the least. my colleagues in the other groups in the committee on agriculture know that i do not have the common agricultural policy at heart, far from it. i would nevertheless like to emphasize the efforts made on this text to correct the misfunctioning of the cap midway through its life cycle. everyone was affected, yes, everyone, including our group, which is not always the case, i must say. i would therefore like to thank all my colleagues, and particularly mr de castro, who have listened to our voice, which is that of the farmers we are defending. i must say that in the background we can see that there are some minor challenges to european agricultural policy. it is therefore good news that the definition of 'active farmer' which is a condition for payment of aid, as you know, is left to the discretion of the member states. it is also good news that producers, whether they are alone or grouped in organisations, are being listened to more. that's important too. or that greening and greening measures are less punitive for farmers. it is rare, but reassuring, when the european union is moving in the right direction. this is all the more so when it half-heartedly admits its own mistakes by reversing its own regulations. who knows, perhaps one day the union will also agree to return to its own foundations.
mr president, commissioner, may i first of all thank my colleagues, albert deß and paolo de castro, for the atmosphere of trust in which we have all three been able to work together. in this case, parliament is a real force for proposals. we have taken a health assessment of the cap from a text which was intended merely as a corrective. we were the only ones - i think - to appreciate the importance of the recent crises on farms, the expectations of farmers on the ground. we have taken a first step, with a development - it was said a moment ago - in the rights granted to producer organizations. nevertheless, madam commissioner, we are waiting for further steps and proposals from the commission. we are waiting for proposals on how the food chain should work. commissioner hogan promised us the money for may. we hope that this deadline will be met. in the trilogue discussions we also came across the crisis management tools and the crisis reserve. it is absolutely essential that, in preparing the forthcoming reform, we all work together to set up a floating reserve from the unspent sums in the agricultural budget, which, if after two or three years it is not consumed, will be returned to the states, as it is today. but we cannot live without a financial pot that allows us to manage crises. too many people, too many farmers in our various countries have been left on the sidelines in recent months. too many farms have closed their doors. we can't be proud of the result.
mr president, the original aim of this regulation was to promote a simplification of the common agricultural policy (cap), but the european parliament wanted to go further and thus set out a number of guidelines for the future common agricultural policy. in this text i welcome the extension of the derogations from the competition rules to all agricultural sectors, the strengthening of the role of producer organisations in contracts, the generalization of exceptional crisis measures to all sectors and, finally, the better distribution of added value in the food chain. these measures are necessary but will be very insufficient to combat price volatility in the event of a market crisis. the sector needs more regulation. i am also pleased that the omnibus has made it possible to make extensive grazing areas in the mediterranean areas eligible. i would also like to welcome the adoption in these texts of two of our important amendments for wine-growing: one on the subtractive method for liqueur wines, the other on the control of plantations in cognac. finally, i would like to stress here - and you know this, commissioner - that these adjustments will never replace a genuine reform of the cap, which we hope will be carried out as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the current context of accelerating international trade, we must be extremely vigilant. we must therefore establish strict, transparent and harmonised rules for the issuing and management of authorisations to union vessels fishing outside community waters and to foreign vessels operating in union waters. this is the subject of this regulation, since it sets a sustainable framework for our fishing activities worldwide: sustainable because it targets flag-changing operations, a well-known circumvention phenomenon; sustainable because it makes the issuing of fishing authorisations conditional on compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy and the sound management of fisheries resources; the commission has also proposed that the fishing effort be made more sustainable by establishing clear rules to help combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. for these reasons i support this resolution and i ask you to support it. however, i would like to draw your attention to the other aspect of the real achievement of this sustainability objective, namely the content of international trade agreements. let us put in place a real policy of promoting our social and environmental standards when negotiating these agreements and we will have a coherent policy of promoting sustainable fisheries at world level.
mr president, since 2016, the international civil aviation organisation (icao), which brings together 191 states, has defined the objectives and main elements of a global market for co2 emissions from international aviation, for the period after 2021. this 'corsia' programme will work to stabilise emissions at 2020 levels. the commission shall, however, publish a report by 1 march 2020 assessing the appropriateness of the standards and practices recommended by icao, the instruments adopted, and the ambition and environmental integrity of the mechanism. the commission is also asked to make icao instruments compatible with eu law, which creates a shield between icao decisions and those of its member states. in a sector as sensitive and competitive as aviation, let us face the facts: only a global system is truly legitimate, fair and effective.
mr president, the problem is that we are caught between two fires, if i may say so: on the one hand, the need to respond to the climate emergency and, therefore, to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to respond to the climate emergency and, therefore, to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements; on the other hand, the need to reduce co2 emissions from a sector which is excluded from international agreements. on the other hand, the lack of technological visibility for the green plane and also the volumetric explosion of the air system and air transport, as well as the problem of international competition for our airlines, which is also a topic on the table of our institution. in fact, we support the message of the trilogue, which is a message of unity to the international community and will avoid any legal uncertainty. we must have confidence in the establishment of a strong new system as early as 2021 for the pilot phase. as of 2018, 72 countries have reported that they will join the global system, and more are expected by 2020. let us now ensure that the seqe and corsia can be properly aligned in due course.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, officially, european citizenship should have been exercised in an appropriate framework which the union calls a european area of prosperity. the least you can say is, it's a bust! european austerity policies have produced tens of millions of poor people in europe. it is the victims of ultraliberalism, for whom european citizenship is expressed in appalling rights, which are the mark of their despair: the right to social degradation for all those who have lost their jobs or have never found one, the right of the greeks to go to the soup kitchen and even the right of french farmers, driven to the brink by a common agricultural policy that has gone mad, to commit suicide. in the face of this failure, the union proposes three ridiculous remedies. the first is to try to reinvigorate the right of petition. this is a vain promise, when we know that the european commission illegally buries petitions that it does not like, starting with those that protested against tafta. but it puts forward those that it likes, like, for example, the petitions that protested brexit. the right to petition, whether it is suppressed or exploited, is nothing but a democratic alibi to conceal the oligarchic nature of the union. the second remedy is equally hypocritical, and is warmly recommended by the majority of the european parliament. it consists - i quote paragraph 31 of its motion for a resolution - in clearly defining a european policy to combat anti-european propaganda, an admirable counter-phrase by which the union accuses the sovereignists of propaganda when it is the union that is practising it massively and with our money. but there's worse! i am referring to the third remedy, which is to gradually replace the national lists with european lists for the european elections. the aim is to tear citizens away from their nation and transform them into docile consumers, at the mercy of multinationals and lobbies. but the nations will rise up before you succeed in reaching it, for the nations are still alive and their vital energy will eat you.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank the team that initiated this report, our fictitious rapporteur, mr papadakis, and, beyond the usual thanks, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs becerra basterrechea, who was able to organise her work in an extremely open and constructive manner. i would like to thank her very much for that. it is all the more regrettable that today a group the epp is trying to call into question the balances that have been achieved in the committee on petitions. that is why we will stand by and refuse to support the epp amendments, because for us it is absolutely essential to affirm and recognise the negative impact of austerity policies on the effectiveness of rights for citizens. we will not go back on the importance of protecting minorities and the actions that are needed today to combat homophobia and to ensure the rights of lgbt families across borders. we will not go back on our request that the council finally adopt the anti-discrimination directive. the inconceivable delay in the council's blocking of this text - almost ten years - is absolutely unacceptable. it is a democratic duty for our citizens to unblock this text. finally, we shall support this report, which clearly states that, in order for european citizenship to exist, it is the rights of citizens that must be guaranteed, the rights voted for by this parliament. in this context, we call on the commission to be even more firm in its role as guardian of the treaties and guarantor of the proper application of union law.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have learned nothing, we have understood nothing. i am talking about the european union's relations with the countries of our immediate neighbourhood. instead of questioning ourselves and re-establishing the dialogue with russia and the eurasian economic union, we are changing our method: it is no longer the aggressiveness illustrated, for example, by mr barroso who threatened armenia in 2013 by saying 'who is not with us is against us'. no, it is no longer this aggressiveness because we can no longer afford it, especially after the repeated failures of enlargement. after the threatening stick, we now prefer the benevolent carrot of support for the countries of the eurasian economic union, but to put them on our side. we are once again in danger of failing, because central asia is one of the most dangerous areas in the world, where a great game is being played between the americans, the chinese and the russians. in fact, in the face of the islamist pressure from the south, in the face of the rise of china, only a eurasian agreement with russia, which the union is advocating, can stabilise and maintain peace in this region, the key to which is kazakhstan. this is not your path. if the member states, with the commission as their spokesman, really want to contribute to the future peace, we must join the train of the multipolar world advocated by president nazarbayev. better, we must be the engine; we'll avoid the deaths, like those 10,000 in the ukraine, the deaths of the division, when we have to unite.
mr president, mr langen, as chairman of the pana committee you have been an excellent chairman and you have just demonstrated that. i therefore invite you to convince your group, if you do not want to lower the level of ambition of this report, to withdraw all the requests for separate votes which have been tabled by your group or amendments which still seek, after having shared a view on the scandal of tax evasion or tax evasion, to widen the scope of exceptions or to reduce the scope of the legislation we are implementing. i also call for the spirit of good cooperation that mr rosati has called for. we are calling on him to be ambitious, alongside us, in denouncing the role of intermediaries, because this is the next important step, once we have adopted this report by the pana committee. finally, as regards the list of tax havens, i too, of course, support the amendments tabled by my colleagues peter simon and paul tang, which should shed light on practices within the european union. (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, on the basis of this report and the 200 recommendations that accompany it, it is urgent to tackle tax evasion and tax evasion by bringing our actions into line with our words and with this text. it is time to put an end to this madness which is costing european workers €1 000 billion, according to the european commission. this is more than ten times the budget of the european union itself. it is also ten times more than what the paris conference decided to allocate to the green climate fund. the commission has therefore taken important steps towards effective harmonisation of corporate and bank taxation, since it would make it possible to redirect money towards job creation and the environmental transition: taxing financial speculation, requiring bank transparency and preventing organised fraud, particularly in the area of vat. it would also be an effective act to overcome the powerlessness and use the powers of article 116 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which allows the european council to amend the unanimity requirement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our committee has been investigating the panama papers scandal for 18 months. tomorrow we will vote on our final report. we in the european parliament must be there! at a time when citizens are tired of impunity and inaction in the face of the tax privileges of a few, it is unacceptable, and above all incomprehensible, that some in this house are seeking to weaken our recommendations to combat tax evasion. let us live up to our responsibilities, let us adopt an ambitious report in the face of member states which systematically block the necessary reforms of tax transparency and harmonisation. our parliament must remind them of the sense of the public interest. to those who are still hesitant to vote on some of the key recommendations, i would like to remind them of this: tax evasion is a destructive process that plunders public finances, increases inequality and threatens the very foundations of living together. those who refuse to act against it are destroying europe. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. i see your usual attitude of denying climate crises or financial crises, and the role of tax havens, particularly that of the uk, which has a network of tax havens that are extremely harmful to the rest of the union, and i hope that in the second part of the negotiations we will get your country to apply european regulations to your offshore territories in order to have access to the single market. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8))
the answer is 'blue card'. i will of course vote for the amendment which proposes to mention tax havens within the union. it is very important and i thank peter simon for introducing this amendment. we must override unanimity in the council, which is a totally outdated provision. i take note of the promise made by jean-claude juncker before us to use article 116. i hope that the members of this house will not weaken our recommendations in this regard.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by udo bullmann and josé manuel fernandes, on behalf of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the extension of the duration of the european fund for strategic investments (com (((2016) 0597 - c8-0375/2016 - 2016/0276 (((cod)) (a8-0198/2017).
madam president, mr vice-president, you will remember that it was my group, the socialist group, which very much wanted this investment plan to exist when jean-claude juncker was sworn in. it was the european parliament that wanted efsi 1 to be considered as an extension. here we are at the rendezvous point. i can only be pleased, as this investment plan is a cornerstone of the overall strategy we need for the european union if it is to meet its investment challenges, and first and foremost sustainable investment. you will recall that in the first debate on the first investment plan my group and a few others wanted to limit the share of investment in favour of the ecological transition to 20%; it was not possible. today we are at 40%, and we can only be happy about that. but i would also like to welcome a side effect of this plan, which i think is quite positive: it is the way it has led many member states to take inspiration from the model of national development and promotion banks to promote the capacity to develop, in each member state, investment plans which are now better selected and developing. this has also led to changes in the governance of the european investment bank, although there is probably room for improvement. that is why i welcome the fact that we continue to emphasise that the european investment bank does not use tax havens in its operations and that the european parliament has an active and visible role in the steering committee. i think that is progress in the right direction. i wish us all the best in the implementation of this plan.
madam president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteurs on their excellent work. the efsi has been successful in meeting the investment targets set in terms of amounts. the appeal of this public investment has helped to raise a lackluster private investment. however, the quality of the tool needed to be improved. it's a done deal. the new efsi should, in particular, allow the implementation of the principle of additionality to permeate the selection of projects. this additionality is understood in its three dimensions: financial, geographical and sectoral. i thank our rapporteurs for the strengthening of parliamentary control, which improves transparency and democracy. i am also pleased to note that this extension does not, for once, lead to any further cuts. i regret, however, that we have still not been able to reverse the cuts made to horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility. finally, after 2020, it should be an opportunity to refocus efsi towards the future, i.e. towards the green transition.
because of the delay and because our colleagues are getting settled, i regret that i cannot organise the 'catch the eye' phase.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, i just wanted to mention a precedent which i think concerns our house and which we must emphasize and not accept. for the first time, on this matter, for which we have just adopted the mandate, we have seen that there were different positions, but this is a debate that belongs to this house. it is very regrettable that a commissioner, a vice-president of the commission, thought it was worthwhile to write to the members of parliament to explain to them what their vote should be about. i therefore wanted to denounce this attempt to influence. regardless of the outcome of the vote, it is unacceptable for the commission to interfere in this way in the deliberations of our chamber. i hear that the sovereignty of our chamber is being recalled, that this is a unique precedent and that it is not renewed.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in afghanistan is a disaster. it is all the more dramatic because this country has been in theory free and democratic for sixteen years. on the security front, outside the major cities, the kabul government is still facing off against the warlords. at the economic and social level, as my colleague said, 9 000 tonnes of drugs are produced, twice as much as under the taliban, the so-called worst of regimes - and this was the worst of regimes. is it necessary to say that the production of drugs is also done with the complicity of the west? the poppy is equivalent to 35% of gdp, employs two million afghans and yet there is over 40% unemployment. at the geopolitical level, the afghan disorder has moved to pakistan and, since the fall of musharraf, this nuclear power, which had the right to its bomb, is also completely adrift in the region. the union must not add to the chaos by seeking to intervene at any cost. by bringing together regional actors - iran, russia, china - and by supporting the balance of power, it will work for peace, not by intervening directly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, afghanistan is at a turning point. in recent months, daesh fighters have moved into nangarhar, logar and now dzhodjan provinces in northern afghanistan. they have entered these provinces to help taliban fighters and use women and children as human shields. a french and an algerian fighter are among the daesh fighters who have just arrived from syria, which is very worrying. the government of national unity is currently unstable and accused of corruption. president ashraf ghani and prime minister abdullah abdullah must find a way to work together more effectively. this is why it is important that the post of prime minister is formally created in the constitution. fortunately, the us decision to stay in afghanistan is a good decision, but former warlord gulbuddin hekmatyar entered kabul six months ago, met with a troubling reception by president ashraf ghani. hekmatyar was supposed to make a deal with the taliban, but no one can deny that since his arrival with his fighters from pakistan, the security situation has deteriorated very rapidly and no progress has been made on negotiations with the afghan taliban. i am talking about those who want to accept the current constitution, guaranteeing human rights, democracy and especially women's rights. the destabilisation of afghanistan is also being driven by pakistan, which, through its intelligence services, forcibly returns afghan migrants to their country and continues to support islamist groups allied to the taliban, such as the haqqani network. the afghan democracy is also in a state of great instability, as strong suspicions continue to weigh on the independent electoral commission and the electoral complaints commission. the insecurity in the country and the increase in attacks in kabul and the provinces make us fear that the country could be on the brink of civil war and fall into the hands of extremists.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, my name is kamal, i am seven years old. in the village where i lived, the police and soldiers came, ordered us to go into our houses and fired. the bullets went through the walls. i've had multiple bullets in my body. then they set fire to our houses. my father, panicked, took my five-year-old brother and me in his arms and hid us in the backyard and went back into the house to look for my twin sister and my older brother, but my father came out alone. today, he and i live in a camp. we are afraid, we are hungry. i miss my mother, my brother and my twin sister terribly. madam vice-president, i hope that these children, as they grow up, will be able to forget these horrors, which will forever haunt their childhood memories. but it is up to us today to act and to cry out our outrage for all the kamals, mohammedans, naciras, yasminas, for all the children born to rohingya, so that this unspeakable injustice and ethnic cleansing in myanmar finally ends. in burma, libya, yemen, the democratic republic of congo and many other countries, horror has become a daily occurrence. don't get used to it.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today, more than ever, i am proud to belong to the french people. it was the people who, as early as 1954, by the vote of their representatives, rejected the european defence community. in continuity with the french members, i am today opposing the european common security and defence policy and its new federal approach, which the people no longer want any more than they did in the past. the report before us today shows how much the european union is doing in spite of and against the will of the people and their interests. for a long time this was done in secret, but it has become evident since the infamous treaty of lisbon, which was imposed on the peoples of europe, and especially on mine, when the popular votes had been extremely clear. we are already questioning the legitimacy of nato, an organisation which puts the military capabilities of its members under the command of a political will which is not that of their own people. the european union is dependent on nato, and therefore on us interests, while trump's foreign policy is marked by uncertainty and it is more necessary than ever that each country retain its freedom of action. yes, cooperating with allies and conducting joint military operations is useful, but building a single force under the command of the european union is certainly not. what good is a european force? to fight outside wars? but there is no need for a common defence for this. political action against those who dare to rebel against the european union shows us the real danger. when the eurocrats have command of armed forces, they will not turn it against external enemies, but against the peoples of europe. they will no longer be content with mocking referenda, imposing actions and admonishing. they will send the tanks to bring order to warsaw, rome, paris and everywhere else, the people oppressed by brussels will want to fight for their freedom.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, these are two closely linked reports, since they concern the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp). both reports were entrusted to members of mrs merkel's party. it is not surprising, then, that some of the falsehoods in the bible are true. one of the rapporteurs dares to say, for example, that russia would prevent a resolution of the conflict in syria, and then, in the next paragraph, that the priority would be to consolidate a legal and safe route for migrants to europe. let's get back to some seriousness, if you don't mind! as regards the csdp, it should be remembered that most european countries are incapable of defending themselves. the national army is often just good for parades and a few multinational missions of medium intensity and range. mrs mogherini, this is what nicolas gros-verheyde says in the introduction to the book he published last april, to which you yourself gave the foreword. if the armies of our various countries are becoming more and more like paper tigers, it is first of all because defence budgets have been continuously reduced, even as china, india, indonesia, but also russia and the united states are increasing their expenditure in this area, which of course is a condition for any credible foreign policy. in 2016, the us budget, at $664 billion, is three times the budget of all the european union countries combined. in his report, mr gahler calls for the creation of an integrated european force. but if we want our armies to cooperate effectively, rather than an artificial superstructure, we should first of all encourage operational and logistical cooperation: it is by means of the multiplication of joint military exercises between armies which mutually recognise the disparity in their capabilities and ambitions that common strategic perspectives can be defined. only the conduct of operations by coalitions with a range of three, four, five or even more perimeters is a realistic objective. in short, flexible and voluntary cooperation. finally, what is the point of making grand speeches about defence europe if we are to continue buying american equipment? after brexit, france will be the only european country to have both nuclear weapons and a seat on the un security council, as well as a strong military industry. behind large groups such as dassault, thales or mbda, there are a myriad of innovative smes that deserve support. robotics and biomimicry are areas of defence in which we must invest to ensure that we are no longer outstripped by our competitors, whether they are american or asian.
mr president, we have too often, madam high representative, lamented here in this house the weakness and slowness of progress in implementing the lisbon treaty to not rejoice today to see that at last most of these provisions are adopted and are going to be implemented. we commend you for this work, and we know that much more needs to be done. we have many statements of quite virtuous intentions, but the devil will be in the details and in the practical implementation of all these recommendations. since the publication of your comprehensive strategy in june 2006 and the launch of permanent structured cooperation yesterday, much progress has been made, reflecting an awareness, an awareness by europeans themselves, that their security is their own and that they must do more to ensure it. in this respect, let me dismiss some of the arguments we have just heard that the european peoples would not want this. it is always the minority groups who speak for the people, as if they were best placed to represent them in their totality and diversity. in any case, what the people of europe want is more security. the policies currently in place are in line with this and do not, in this respect, infringe the sovereignty of states. each keeps his own armed forces, each disposes of them as he wishes. france - it has been said here - which today remains the most active military nation in europe, has troops deployed in the un, in nato, in the european union and in a strictly national capacity. this does not in any way infringe its sovereignty, but rather guarantees that of the europeans. this is what we need to work on today: pragmatism, flexibility and, above all, efficiency. i think that from this point of view the measures taken are right. we must ensure that they are fully operational, and we trust you to do the job. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. you are referring to the treaty of lisbon, my dear colleague, have you read it? in its provisions on the common security and defence policy. because the provisions of the lisbon treaty are particularly precise and explicit: they do not speak of a european army or an integrated army, they speak of compatibility with other commitments in other alliances, notably nato. all this is perfectly pragmatic. so you're intentionally suing because you want ideological views and because it serves your propaganda. it's just that the reality of the facts is stronger than your propaganda. what we are discussing today is something extremely pragmatic, far removed from the ideology you are trying to promote to better counter it.
mr president, madam high representative, i am particularly pleased that the various institutions of the european union have finally become aware of the dangers that threaten us - the present dangers and the future dangers - and therefore of the urgent need to have a security and defence policy that is both strong, credible and structured. we are pleased that, thanks to your commitment and to the actions of all of us, we can now present concrete measures, in particular through the two excellent reports on this subject: the strengthening of the defence union's capabilities, permanent structured cooperation, the establishment of a european defence fund and the launch of the european defence industrial development programme. but the most important thing is that europe moves concretely and sustainably in this direction, so that it can finally better protect its citizens in the future. the problem - and this was stressed by the committee on budgets - is that the funds allocated to this are actually, really being used. so, madam high representative, i would like to ask you something: are you prepared to give this parliament an annual report from the commission on what has been done, so that we can follow up on what has actually been achieved and what has been misused, because funds have been used, as in recent years, for policies other than defence and security?
madam president, madam high representative, indeed, the instability in the middle east, poverty in africa, the madness of some dictators and many other subjects, including the rise of terrorism and cyberattacks, must alert us even more to the issues of european defence. i would add that donald trump's attitude in the united states forces us to rethink, because the european union cannot remain defenseless. although we are all deeply pacifists, unfortunately we do not live on the planet of the bison. we need to unlock the full potential of the lisbon treaty in this area and ensure permanent structured cooperation, a prelude to a genuine common european defence, including cyber defence. two projects deserve special mention: the preparatory action on research and, of course, the project to pool military equipment in order to save money. these are important first steps, but we must go further. of course, fresh money must be found and not the structural policies of the european union.
mr president, madam high representative, for us this agreement is of enormous strategic importance. this agreement is a symbol that multilateralism is effective, that diplomacy can strengthen stability and peace in the world. this agreement is a sign that negotiations can contribute to nuclear disarmament. well, i would like to congratulate you on your work and i would encourage the european leaders to support you more firmly and publicly to save this agreement. but beyond this agreement there is the problem of nuclear disarmament in the world. and as beatrice fihn, director of the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons (ican) and the 2017 nobel peace prize laureate, put it, "we have to choose between two outcomes: the end of nuclear weapons or the end of all of us". on sunday in oslo, she called on the united states to choose freedom over fear, and russia to choose disarmament over destruction. i would add that europe must choose and show the way to nuclear disarmament, and i am counting on you, mrs mogherini.
the question is "blue cardboard". i have a very simple and very specific question to ask our colleague. in what article of the joint comprehensive plan of action did he read that the nuclear agreement placed constraints on the other areas of contention with iran, such as the one he named, for example, human rights? i have no sympathy for the iranian regime, but i like to be specific, so i wonder where in the joint comprehensive plan of action are the provisions mr zahradil has just mentioned.
mr president, as i said earlier, there is no sympathy to be had for the iranian theocracy, and firmness is undoubtedly the best attitude to be had towards tehran. i come from a country that was and i am proud of being the toughest in negotiating the iran nuclear deal. but if we only talk to countries with which we share values, security interests and sympathies and engage diplomatically only with those countries, we will not be talking to many people. we're gonna end up alone in this real world as it is. today, it is not about being naive about iran, nor is it about being confused. we must approach this subject very rigorously and we must look at the problems and the disputes in order to speak openly and - as i said - firmly. in the context of the overall common action, it is a compromise agreement, of which nothing today suggests that it is being violated or that it will have bad consequences. so we must apply the common global action plan today, period! the european approach in this respect is exemplary. on ballistics, there is - as you said, madam high representative - a violation of security council resolution 2231. so we have to be firm and take action. on regional reconstitution, yes, of course, iran is making progress from yemen to lebanon, but iran is also making progress on our mistakes, on our indecision and on our wilfulness. iran is therefore an actor, neither better nor worse in absolute terms than many other actors in the region. here too, we must be realistic. we have red lines on which we must be totally uncompromising, including israel's security. for the rest, i think it is in our interest to engage iran, as i said, with the greatest firmness, but also with the greatest realism.
mr president, madam high representative, this is a member of the european parliament who has just been denied entry to israel. i welcome the efforts you are making and the balance that the european union has always tried to bring to this conflict, and i fully share the points you have made and what has been said by many of my colleagues. the difficulty we have at this stage is that your calls for reason, your calls for peace, your calls for negotiation are not being heard, either by mr trump - it is now obvious - or by mr netanyahu. i asked you, a year ago, if we would agree to negotiate with israel on the question of war damages, the destruction of what the european union is financing. i know you're concerned about this, so i'll come back to you in a year. you know that haaretz has just published the bill that 57 meps have submitted on behalf of the european union for these destruction. i would therefore like to see us also engage in a dialogue on this issue, which affects the lives of thousands of civilians who have nothing to do with violence but simply with their dignity, which they want to regain.
mr president, madam high representative, i thank you for your opening statement, but since mr trump is taking the risk of putting the united states on the sidelines of international law, i believe it is up to you, the european union, because of our geographical, historical and cultural links with the israeli and palestinian peoples, to take the lead in diplomatic, political and even economic initiatives if necessary. firstly, beyond the quartet, should we not seek to convene an international conference on the basis of international law, justice and peace? secondly, should we not produce an important political act in accordance with international law, that is to say, the recognition of the state of palestine within the borders defined in 1967, with east jerusalem as its capital, and not a puppet state as we are being told? thirdly, you have an asset to use: article 2 of the association agreement and all the texts which are partnership agreements between the european union and israel. is it not time, in the name of justice, to raise them up and activate them? (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". françois mitterrand has made many speeches in favour of palestine and for the recognition of palestine, but i inform you that the two houses of the french parliament voted in favour of the recognition of the state of palestine, as is consistent with four united nations resolutions and contrary to what you said earlier.
in writing. donald trump's decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel is a real obstacle to peace building. this unilateral decision could have dramatic consequences on the ground in the middle east. i would like to remind you once again that the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders is the only way to achieve lasting peace between israelis and palestinians. there is no alternative! this coexistence must be conceived with jerusalem as the common capital of israel and palestine. i am pleased that the foreign ministers of the member states showed their unity with the high representative last monday by unanimously reaffirming their commitment to the two-state solution. the union must fully engage within the quartet and in cooperation with regional actors in order to take initiatives and promote the resumption of dialogue between the palestinian and israeli authorities. the european union must redouble its efforts to achieve concrete results for the resolution of the conflict, recalling that it remains a priority of international diplomacy.
madam president, last weekend the aquarius, a ship chartered by sos méditerranée, again rescued 450 people. the testimonies on board were overwhelming: "on the beach, people were afraid, but the uniformed guards pointed their guns at us and forced us into the boats". guards in uniform a few days ago... for months we have been told that coastguards are being formed, 100 to 150 we were told in tunis in september, and the same number was repeated to us last week in brussels. so, in three months, nothing new, despite cnn, i dare say. yes, it is not new! human trafficking and torture have existed for years, including under gaddafi, and the european union was already seeking to negotiate an agreement. there is no magic bullet. no more fancy speeches, no more fancy stories, no more figures that are nothing compared to reality! the so-called official government controls only a tiny part of the territory. so there is no thorough investigation, there is no judicial system. the detention centers are out of control. how do you plan to evacuate these centers? and we're going to open a call center in tripoli to better repatriate back to libya these men, women, children who are being ransomed, tortured, sold like commodities, murdered. how many more dead? by your financing, by your policies which worsen the situation, including in niger, you are complicit in what is happening in that country. one day you will have to account for this, and in particular for the thousands of lives lost at sea and in the desert.
in writing. according to the united nations, 390,000 migrants are currently stranded in libya, of whom 9,000 are believed to be deprived of their liberty. the current eu cooperation programmes for libya have an impact on those in need of international protection and whose living conditions in detention centres do not respect fundamental rights. following the eu-africa summit on 30 november, a joint declaration on the situation of migrants in libya was adopted. it is clear that it condemns the inhumane treatment of migrants and refugees by criminal groups, but it does not provide any answer to the crisis. however, journalists have recently witnessed an auction of migrants reduced to slavery. the pictures illustrate the tragic situation of thousands of people. the libyan authorities have decided to set up a transit and departure centre in tripoli for persons in need of international protection. nevertheless, it would be good if the ongoing investigation checked the press allegations and concluded quickly. the union must review its policy towards libya and establish legal and safe routes for these migrants.
in writing. we have already strongly condemned the declaration between the european union and turkey here, because it must not become a model to follow, but now another agreement, again without the control of the european parliament, has been reached in libya. with these arrangements, member states only worsen the situation of migrants on the ground and become accomplices in these atrocities. amnesty international has revealed that stranded migrants are exposed to arbitrary detention, torture, murder, rape, extortion and exploitation. the union cannot discharge its international obligations in the field of asylum. migrants cannot be blamed for wanting to flee war and they are therefore entitled to international protection. i regret that the libyan coastguard, which is funded by european funds, is only aiming to push migrants further and further away from our doors. this is a serious mistake; the european union is a major player in the world's migration policy, especially since there are other ways of achieving a humane and voluntary migration policy. if there was real political will, we could create safe and legal pathways to europe through resettlement, family reunification or humanitarian visas.
mrs atkinson, there is no "blue cardboard". anyway, ma'am, you don't have the mike, so it's not going to do any good.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, there are two opposing views of security and defence. the idea of general de gaulle and chancellor adenauer, a europe independent of nato but a partner, as envisaged in the elysée treaty of 22 january 1963, before it was passed by the bundestag on 16 may, before its addendum restoring this treaty of independence to transatlantic dependence; and then there was the american jean monnet, who wanted to make the europe of defence an annex of the united states. chancellors erhard and kiesinger were so concerned about their past that they supported her against adenauer. so is merkel. since adenauer, we can no longer speak of a franco-german couple, because we french patriots see in the europe of defence a dynamic of independence and the others, including germany, a case of dependence in mutualisation. in security/defence we must build this gaulish vision of european independence with the united states in the united nations, in a world which is now multipolar, otherwise the europe of defence will be a failure.
madam president, last week the european union and the united kingdom presented a salutary compromise. this first step in the negotiations is not an end in itself, it is a clarification, but much remains to be done. i welcome the work done by the commission under the responsibility of mr barnier. despite the obvious initial unpreparedness and the regular lack of clarity on the part of the british leadership, our negotiator was able to maintain a course, impose a timetable and defend our red lines, and i would like to say or reiterate at this stage our full gratitude and appreciation. the european union is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam, but it is a party to the treaty of amsterdam, and it is not a party to the treaty of amsterdam. there is never a good divorce, but let us look at the positive side: the sovereign choice of the british people has been a shock to strengthen unity within the european union, and it is by being united that we must make the second phase of the negotiations a step in the service of european interests. for example, we need to be careful when it comes to business. in strategic sectors, at a time when the british will necessarily have to rebuild their commercial attractiveness to the world, the united kingdom should not be a trojan horse for foreign investment. so, for our part, let us keep up our efforts. the report i am bringing to parliament on better monitoring of foreign investment will here complement the work done to reform our anti-dumping methodology and to modernise our trade defence instruments. in this unprecedented negotiation, because we still have a long way to go, let us not let our guard down and continue to defend the interests of europeans with pragmatism and determination.
madam president, mr barnier, thank you for introducing what we might call the wolf in sheep's clothing. in any case, the word 'internal market' in paragraph 49 of this long joint report which i believe is a common thread on which we will be able to build a lot for the future of relations between the european union and the united kingdom. but there are other issues on the agenda of the european council and i am surprised that i do not see the commission at its seat. i would have liked to have invited him to stress the importance of economic and monetary union reforms, even in the absence of a german government apart from a functioning government. indeed, there are elements in the proposals on which we need to make progress, and in particular the idea of a safety net for the resolution fund, because this is a point that otherwise risks blocking much of the progress we need, whatever the electoral timetable of each.
madam president, i can indeed take note of mr timmermans' optimistic statements on the future of the european union, but unfortunately the very good statements and intentions are at odds with the budgetary question. how do we implement all these new policies without additional funding? we cannot accept that the structural policies of the european union should pay for this. on brexit, i would like to both congratulate and thank mr barnier and all the negotiators for not giving in to the red lines set by the european parliament. i understand that there is still a long way to go before this first result can be legally translated. there is one point which particularly concerns me: the irish border. i do not yet see how things can go and what solution will be taken in the end. what i hope is that it does not threaten peace or the future, because i believe that sooner or later, mr farage may not like it, the united kingdom will close the door to the european union again.
i have received, in accordance with rule 123 (2), two motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few minutes. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, we can only support in principle the idea of non-negotiable social standards between european countries. it should be remembered that despite the promises of prosperity and full employment, the european union today has 18 million unemployed and 119 million people at risk of social exclusion. in france, between 2005 and 2015, one million new poor people joined the ranks of french people living below the poverty line. the situation is only getting worse as the growing instability of work, through what the commission modestly calls 'atypical contracts', leads to the emergence of the precariat as a new social class. in fact, the working poor now make up 9 per cent of the working population. the incantations in favour of common social standards will, however, remain a dead letter, since this general impoverishment is the result of the levelling down of wages between member states, since the wage differentials range from 1 to 10. as a sign that the european commission has no intention of tackling the root cause of the problem, the reform of the posted worker has set the tone by maintaining the worker's attachment to the social system of the state of origin, which is the main cause of social dumping. once again, therefore, brussels deplores the effects of its cherished causes by maintaining the course of a europe of free trade, contrary to the will of the peoples.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the social summit in gothenburg on 17 november last, 20 points or principles were adopted which were supposed to constitute this european social pillar. the eurobieats are also good at making big, beautiful declarations of intent. but let us take the question of the minimum wage, for example. six member states, not the least, have no minimum wage set by law or by an inter-sectoral agreement: denmark, italy, cyprus, austria, finland and sweden. and among the other states, what disparities! in france, the gross smic is around eur 1 500, as in the netherlands, belgium and germany. in luxembourg it is almost €2,000, but in no less than nine countries it is less than €500, even as low as €275 in romania. how can we not believe that harmonization will lead to a leveling-up from below? but beyond these disparities, which cannot be removed by a magic wand, the fundamental problem with all your catalogues of good intentions is the total absence of questioning. the european commission claims to be providing solutions to problems for which it is largely responsible: budgetary austerity, unfair intra-european competition, including the posting of workers, a single currency whose rigidity and management penalise the economies of many of our countries and, of course, the removal of border protection. it used to be called the "social pillar", but now it's called the "socle". the commission is thus trying to give an illusion of stability, but the european union is - as you know - more fragile than ever. in a recent interview with a belgian newspaper, you said, commissioner, that 'we want fair competition'. so you know she's not! but you will not solve this problem by signing free trade agreements in their entirety. mrs thyssen, your portfolio includes 'mobility'. i know that this is a fashionable term, a real imperative of ultra-liberal ideology. but it is clear that the dogma of the free movement of capital, goods and people is ruining our countries through its excesses. you have the ambition to make recommendations to the member states on social matters. you have recently been complaining, and rightly so, about the decline in birth rates in europe, and mr juncker never misses an opportunity to encourage immigration as a false answer to this problem. instead, you should suggest social and fiscal measures to encourage births that our nations could then implement.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the year it is traditional to look in the rearview mirror to take stock of the months that have passed. 2017 was the year of advances in social europe, in particular with the proclamation of the european pillar of social rights. these efforts must be continued, as there are still many projects to be carried out: coordination of social security schemes, finalisation of the work on posted workers, work-life balance and, of course, all the issues surrounding digitalisation. the advent of digital technology will bring about new and very diverse forms of employment requiring the development of workers' skills, and in this respect, education, vocational training, apprenticeship, access to lifelong learning, focused on new skills, which keep pace with technological developments, are essential. the digitisation of society and the world of work is leading to a proliferation of very diverse forms of employment for which we currently lack legal clarity. what kind of employment contract to offer these workers? what social security should they be provided with? it is therefore necessary to ensure that the traditional labour rules also apply to these employees. this is the whole point of building the european union.
in writing. it would appear that the ins and outs of the european social pillar of social rights (espr) are not evolving despite the work done in the committee on employment and social affairs (empl). the epsr always seems to reflect the need for the european union to make a paradigm shift towards a strong european social model: clearly, harmonisation and therefore unfortunately a leveling down! europe has existed for many years, and each of its member states (not member states but sovereign states) has successfully adapted its social model to its own needs, taking into account the specific characteristics of each profession. we must preserve these particularities and aim upwards by exchanging good practices, not by deconstructing them! beyond harmonisation, i denounce a more serious underlying desire: that of propaganda aimed at making the eu look like the only solution to the problems of citizens, the desire to save a damaged european project, without carrying out the necessary reforms in depth.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, the commission declared a year ago that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) were integrated into all its 10 priorities. yet the eurostat report shows that in just five years, five sdgs have shown significant progress, such as sdg 7 'clean and affordable energy', sdg 12 'responsible consumption and production' and sdg 3 'good health and well-being'. the remaining eight objectives are not making significant progress. these include sdg 4 'quality education', sdg 1 'no poverty', sdg 2 'zero hunger' and sdg 5 'gender equality'. worse, we learn that due to insufficient data, four sdgs cannot even be studied. let us be clear: states remain best placed to achieve the objectives they have approved themselves.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, natural disasters and risks know no borders. we have too often been in reaction and not in anticipation. european solidarity in the face of disasters must be expressed in strong actions. this is what is being committed today, at your instigation, commissioner, and i congratulate you on this, with the €280 million committed until 2020 and the implementation of an autonomous capacity reserve. i was going to say 'finally' because i am one of those who have been calling for several years now for the pooling of capacities and the strengthening of resources for a stronger european civil protection. i am thinking here of a european fleet of canadair, a project which i also support with great enthusiasm, together with my colleague renaud muselier, president of the provence-alpes-côte d'azur region. water bombers in the colours of europe would be a strong symbol of a concrete europe, to the aid of the people. i am also thinking of the european network of civil protection and risk management hubs, which is the result of the preparatory action i presented to the european parliament and which was approved in the 2018 budget of the european union. the commissioner, the french air base at nîmes-garons, which you know well because you inaugurated it, a jewel of french civil security, could serve here as the first pilot base at european level to accommodate new capabilities. it is now up to the member states - as has already been said - to say concretely how they intend to contribute to the efforts we are making. that is why i have asked the president of the french republic to speak on this subject, so that france can make a concrete case at european level for the need to prevent risks better and, above all, to protect with reactivity through renewed means.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am divided tonight: i am both happy and sad. i am naturally delighted with the result of our work. we will adopt a strong and comprehensive report tomorrow on the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children, an area where we absolutely need to move forward and redouble our efforts. i would naturally like to thank, from the bottom of my heart, our rapporteur, with whom we are fighting these issues on a daily basis, particularly in the intergroup on the rights of the child. i would like to thank her for her work and her strong commitment in all these areas. but at the same time i am saddened tonight because the reason we are having this debate is that the situation is far from satisfactory. since 2011, we have a directive that is a real step forward, but we are almost in 2018 and the results are disappointing: late transposition, incomplete transposition by the states, member states that have still not modernised their criminal law in relation to all these new forms of offences in the field of sexual exploitation of children, little done in terms of prevention and assistance to victims and a still too slow withdrawal of sexual abuse content. we are told that the directive has not reached its full potential, but how can we be satisfied with such a response? government and ngo reports are overwhelming, the numbers of exploitation are alarming, the victims are younger and younger, the content is increasing, so there is a need to redouble our efforts against these atrocities. i would like to emphasize three points. first, prevention: how can we prevent abuse, which often occurs in the immediate family environment? how can such rapes be prevented? how can we best protect our children before they fall prey to these criminal networks and predators? secondly, with regard to content on the internet, member states must ensure that child abuse content is promptly removed at source and they must have functional removal notification procedures. thirdly, training of actors: judicial and police actors must be sufficiently equipped by the member states to adapt to the evolving and terrible nature of these crimes. in conclusion, child actors must also be supported in order to detect victims, because this is absolutely dramatic for the construction of these children, who risk remaining and are too often invisible victims.
in writing. the figures for paedophilia are alarming, with over 13 percent of girls and 5.7 percent of boys reportedly being abused. and the situation is only going to get worse as europe faces a record influx of isolated miners to its coasts, the latter being, of course, the prime targets of traffickers. the most firm action is required against the perpetrators of such acts. however, not only has the european union not carried out a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of the 2011 directive, but many additional measures would be needed to effectively combat these abuses. thus, while australia has recently introduced exit bans on persons convicted of paedophilia, it is inconceivable that european states do not also crack down on sex tourism, which, in addition to the human tragedies it causes, permanently tarnishes the image of western states in the regions affected by these practices. at a time when france is questioning the age of consent, it is also urgent to address the root cause by opposing the hypersexualization of children and, in particular, young girls, which is a worrying deviation from demanding feminism.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs notis marias, and our fictitious rapporteur, mrs jude kirton-darling, who has focused all our contributions on this report on the activities of the committee on petitions. this committee, on which i would like to dwell briefly, although it is not a legislative body, is essential for our institution because it ensures a fundamental right, guaranteed by our founding treaty, which is to petition when the right which we, the legislators, vote on here is not respected or calls for adjustments. this right is an essential link with our fellow citizens and civil society and requires the mobilisation of all actors to ensure that petitions are dealt with properly and diligently. we reviewed the working methods of the committee on petitions in 2015 to this end and they are working well. i therefore think we must reject amendments which would restrict our work and limit this democratic right to petition. if all the institutions must be mobilised - this parliament, the first - there is one which must adhere to a particular requirement, namely the european commission, because as guardian of the treaties it has the power to open infringement proceedings and to pursue member states before the court of justice for failure to act, if necessary. this power is also a responsibility towards our fellow citizens, not all of whom have the means to go to court. it is therefore also a responsibility towards this parliament, as a co-legislator, to ensure that european law is properly applied and to ensure the proper functioning of european democracy. for these reasons, we ask the european commission to ensure that it too deals diligently with the petitions we address to it and that it is as firm as possible in initiating infringement proceedings. it is a question of the proper functioning of european democracy and of respect for the texts we are voting on here as legislators.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, remember that not so long ago, in 2009-2010, europe was the leader in the fight against global warming; we were voting for a climate-energy package to set a course for our industry in terms of energy efficiency. but what have we done since then? the numbers don't lie, though. from 1990 to 2015, transport emissions increased by 16%. since 2015, it is the only sector that is still growing. transport accounts for 25% of europe's greenhouse gas emissions, 70% of which is road transport. air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths in europe every year. it costs healthcare between €330 and €940 billion a year. but we have to do something to change that. it's now! i would remind you that in 2011 your commission committed itself to reducing co2 emissions from transport by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990. but how? this is where we must be firm and we have a good roadmap with mr eickhout's report. we should stop funding diesel research, even the head of volkswagen is now saying so. the same applies to aviation: let us tax kerosene at last, let us stop this vat discount on tickets. instead, let us put in place the 'polluter pays' principle, particularly in road transport, by charging on the basis of distance rather than time. let us set mandatory quotas for the production of clean vehicles for car manufacturers rather than encouraging them to do so. unfortunately, when reading your commission's proposals on co2 emissions from vehicles, it seems that europe is waiting for the market to do wonders, while china has decided to produce a minimum of 10% of electric vehicles by 2019. it is fine to criticise mr donald trump for his climate commitments, but it is better for europe to take the lead on climate change and set an example. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to follow our rapporteur, mr eickhout, in reaffirming our firm ambition. our objective must be clear: to actually reduce co2 emissions from transport in europe. commissioner, i say this with great firmness: we cannot dance on a volcano any longer, it is now or never.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his work. i agree with a number of its proposals, such as the requirement for clear transport price signals, in application of the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles. however, this seems to me to be difficult to reconcile with the progressive liberalisation of the various transport sectors within the european union. it is also paradoxical to want to reduce emissions while the european union is promoting, through the trans-european transport network programme, the acceleration of the integration of the new member states and the achievement of an internal market, ideally without barriers. finally, i regret that no mention is made of the question of the mobility of workers, which is being unreasonably encouraged by the european union. this worrying phenomenon results in an increasing demand for mobility and therefore for additional co2 emissions, whereas jobs should be protected in each country, but this would still require the will to do so.
mr president, the european union is the most advanced region in the world in terms of environmental standards and the fight against climate change. this does not mean that it should rest on its laurels. on the contrary, it requires it to go further and further to lead the way and, above all, to ensure that all its member states respect and apply the legislation. in this respect, the european strategy for low-emission mobility must be ambitious and comprehensive. the report on which we are voting in a few hours is demanding and realistic. it proposes concrete action. it is a document on which legislators can rely when declining our intentions in binding texts. his field is too wide to go into detail in a half-hour. i shall therefore concentrate on one aspect which i consider essential: the application of the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles. transport generates pollution, that is a fact, and even if we can try to reduce it, it will never be zero. transport will always require ad hoc infrastructure, especially as vehicles become more sophisticated. however, we can try to reduce pollution at source, but to do this effectively, we need a binding minimum target for manufacturers, otherwise it will remain a wishful thinking. this will also benefit the competitiveness of the european automotive industry, as it will remain at the forefront of technological innovation. in addition, it is essential to have the infrastructure and the negative effects, known as 'external costs', financed by those who use it. if not, the taxpayers are paying the price, and that is deeply unfair. these principles are also enshrined in the treaty. i therefore support their implementation for all vehicles in europe.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the vietnamese government is surprisingly gagging and jailing political opponents. the vietnamese judiciary uses rhetoric that is eerily reminiscent of the great moscow trials. this regime is simply applying the brutal and liberticidal methods of a country where the communist party is the only one authorized: the method of a state which has engraved in the marble of its constitution its unwavering attachment to ho chi minh and marxism-leninism, an ideology responsible for tens of millions of deaths; the european union is a state which does not hesitate to indoctrinate and recruit its youth to prevent dissent. last monday the 11th national congress of communist youth opened in hanoi, during which the general secretary of the party did not fail to recall that "the youth must be educated and aroused in them" i quote "the revolutionary ideology and firm confidence in socialism, and that "the awareness, study and application of marxism-leninism must be accelerated". it's like the heyday of soviet bolshevism. ladies and gentlemen, you deplore the fate of this young vietnamese man who was sentenced to seven years in prison for 'spreading reactionary propaganda against the party and politics', as the vietnamese pravda put it. but as usual, you're just protesting. how can anyone seriously hear you? almost no one here objected to the commission's announcement of the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the european union and vietnam. in that case, you do not mind that the union is dealing with the vietnamese government to the detriment of our workers, the environment and public health. in order to satisfy your unbridled free trade, you suddenly have less regard for human rights, which you are invoking all the time. in this house, i have the impression that indignation is being cultivated in a variable geometry. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, if the european union and certain member states want to appear credible, they should first apply to themselves the lessons they are so willing to teach others, because in our latitudes too the political and media system is trying to muzzle the opposition under the very false pretext of fighting racism, homophobia and so-called hate speech. it is a form of soft dictatorship, a dictatorship of thought, which you should not boast about and which you should finally renounce in the name of the freedom which is so essential to us.
madam president, the vietnamese people have already suffered a great deal from the war. there are still many tracks around the 37th parallel. today, this people has the right to aspire to live in peace under a democratic regime, where the judiciary retains its independence. it is not acceptable for a political regime - in vietnam as elsewhere - to imprison its opponents, bloggers and all those who aspire to freedom of expression. if vietnam wants to continue to open up to tourism, which is undoubtedly a real asset for this lovely country, if vietnam wants to continue to cooperate with the european union, its government has an obligation to respect the fundamentals of the rule of law. the nguyen van hoa case is now a symbol which the european union must incorporate into its future relations with vietnam. the european union must remain vigilant on these human rights issues, in vietnam and cambodia, as we shall see shortly, but also in its great neighbour china.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union has repeatedly expressed to the vietnamese authorities, including at the highest levels, its concerns over limitations to freedom of expression, both online and offline, as reflected in frequent cases of intimidation and violence against journalists and civil society activists. the eu has been constructively engaged with the vietnamese authorities on a revision of the penal code and its related laws, in order to ensure alignment with international standards by providing input to the national assembly, by offering exchange of best practices, and by promoting joint actions with like-minded countries. political and civil rights, as well as legal and judicial reform, are regularly raised at the human rights dialogue with vietnam. during the last session, which took place on 1 december 2017 in hanoi, the eu reiterated its request for all vietnamese citizens detained for peacefully exercising their freedom of expression to be released. in this context, the eu also referred to a number of individual cases. furthermore, the eu stressed that the negative trend in freedom of expression needs to be reversed, especially at a time when vietnam and the eu are committed to working towards a closer relationship. the case of mr nguyen van hoa is a clear example of the deterioration in civil and political rights in vietnam in recent months. the extensive application of national security provisions in vietnam’s penal code has resulted in a steep rise in the arrest, detention and sentencing of vietnamese citizens who peacefully express their opinions. compared to 20 years ago, reform and modernisation have allowed vietnam to make continuous progress in economic and social rights, steadily reaching out to international processes. the eu and vietnam are partners in moving from limited regional integration to meeting wider international standards. against this background, the eu is striving to reiterate, on every occasion, the concept that citizens’ opinions, expressed peacefully, enrich countries and are a pillar of sustainability and prosperity. the eu stands ready to work together with vietnam to achieve a more inclusive society.
author. madam president, this is the fifth emergency resolution on cambodia that we have been considering since 2014. the country is moving further and further away from the rule of law. independent media, ngos and members of the opposition are facing an escalation of repression. all of this bodes ill for the upcoming election. what are these elections like, when the main opposition party has just been dissolved and its leading figures are either in prison or in exile. on the social side, it is not much better since land grabbing remains a major phenomenon amid corruption for the benefit of a number of european multinationals and causes hundreds of thousands of refugees. so what do you do? the electoral assistance has been suspended, the agreement "everything but weapons" can be used, but is it possible without penalising the textile workers? we can also support the ngo proposal for a new conference of the stakeholders of the paris agreement. one thing is certain: everything must be done to help cambodia and the cambodian people to return to the path of democracy, if possible.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in one year, just five votes on cambodia! we did not vote as much for the christians of the east, we did not vote as much for the tormented africans of the great lakes. prime minister hun sen is not a democrat, that's for sure. i'm sure you will. we should still agree on what democracy is left in our country. we have good dictators and bad dictators, and we have a somewhat soft dictatorship. take the example of a man we haven't voted against since 2014: paul kagame, the author of the unrest and mass murder that is engulfing the great lakes region, labelled a good dictator. by comparison, is hun sen and the tiny state of cambodia worth such a ferocious fight? human rights are not for political use, to lock us up in the logic of power and influence, serving, moreover, interests other than those of europe. let us help cambodia by starting from the realities to improve them, without double standards.
madam president, as the resolution we are debating clearly indicates, we must be concerned today about the lack of political pluralism in cambodia. the ruling party is in control and is even able to dissolve the main opposition party, which nevertheless achieved significant results in the local elections. the resolution again emphasises arbitrary arrests and false imprisonment. in these circumstances, the european union must continue its efforts to try to make itself heard and to take measures to beat the government to the post, as our colleague marc tarabella has just explained very well. the clothing sector, which is one of the main economic sectors with outlets to the european union, also needs special attention to ensure that we do not experience another rana plaza that has grieved bangladesh. the next elections in june 2018 must be held in a transparent manner and in accordance with international standards, otherwise the eu will have to tighten its relations with the regime, but keep in mind that it must support the cambodian people.
mr president, 1 000 billion euros a year is what tax fraud and tax evasion represent. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. in fact, behind the pompous speeches, behind the scenes, the opportunity is being organized for multinational corporations and multimillionaires to get through the net. this hypocrisy is no longer deceiving anyone, so hypocritical that it has been forgotten to put luxembourg on the famous black list, as well as these beautiful and clean countries of liechtenstein, switzerland, monaco and andorra. it is high time that we really fought against financial terrorism, which is always unpunished and serves an ultra-rich minority that is getting richer and richer, to the detriment of the poorest, who are unfortunately getting poorer.
