mr president, colleagues, it has been a genuine pleasure talking with all of you during this campaign for the presidency of the european parliament, and having listened to you, it is clear that we agree that parliament needs to change, and the apparent ending of the grand coalition gives an opportunity to demonstrate that we can shift away from electing a usual suspect and maybe even dare to elect a woman from a smaller group – and, if we’re feeling really radical, from the uk, difficult though i know that is for some of you. we may know later today more about the uk’s proposals for its future relationship with the european union, but we do know that this parliament will vote on that final deal and should be involved in those discussions, not least as we have enormous knowledge and expertise to offer. and i believe we agree that, as far as possible, this must be a win-win outcome for all our citizens but does not undermine the european union. but when we were talking, you were clear about some of the other changes. you wanted independence and visibility of the institution, not least in the eyes of our citizens. you wanted greater inclusion – that parliament’s president must involve the voices of the different political groups in our decision-making, but also inclusion of the people of europe, and giving more structure and value to the work that we already do, whether that’s with young people, people experiencing poverty, or initiatives such as the freedom drive, but inclusion also in our diversity in that wider sense. transparency was also an issue, and parliament’s president has to carry through the recent rule changes that we have made, as well as doing more on environmental progress and social responsibility. so visibility, inclusion, transparency are important to all of us, but so are the values that underpin our work as members of the european parliament and that our president, as our face to the world, has a responsibility to promote. and when i travel outside the european union, i am often told that our commitment to universal human rights, democracy and solidarity within and across our borders, backed by environmental progress, is what makes the european union a valued partner. but of course, it’s not every leader or every country that espouses those values. we are in difficult and shifting political times, but our parliament has shown itself capable of being critical of some of our own national governments, painful though that is. we have supported proposals for the european union to act together, to manage the refugee situation (which council has singularly failed to do), and as parliament, we have acted to push council to be a stronger negotiator in the critically-important climate change negotiations. and this week, through our work on the pillar of social rights, we can show that a stable economy does not have to destroy social europe. we face many challenges today. change is necessary. but i believe we are stronger when we promote the values of democracy, universal human rights, and solidarity on a sustainable planet together, and on that basis, i would be honoured to work with you as your president. (applause)
mr president, i have childcare issues in the evenings, so i am not sure if this is going to work. i am sorry, it might be difficult. i have got an 11—month—old baby with me. i can i try but she might not like it very much. (applause)
mr president, just a point of order – a bit of housekeeping – the bell does not appear to be working in the corridor of my political party, the ukip delegation, the efdd group, on the eighth floor. i know that colleagues would like us all to be in the chamber for our votes, so perhaps you could arrange for that to be looked at.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we stand here today at the start of a new year, at the start of a new presidency of the council, at the start of a new president of parliament, and the ecr group wishes both the new presidencies the very best. let us hope that these presidencies will be the new start that the eu so badly needs: to face up to the challenges not just of the next six months, but of the next few years. presidencies so often judge their success on how many trilogues are completed, or how much new legislation is passed in their six months. but while more trilogue agreements can give the illusion of action, we have to ask with each new agreement whether the people we represent feel safer; whether the people we represent feel more prosperous; whether the people we represent feel more confident in us taking decisions on their behalf. this must be a proud and historic moment in the history of malta: a maltese prime minister, a former member of european parliament, taking over the presidency of the european union, and you chose as your first priority to bring the eu closer to the people by encouraging vigorous debate on the key issues. but that closeness you desire will not be achieved by legislating every aspect of people’s lives or by being preoccupied with the intrigue and the politicking of the brussels bubble, but by listening and acting on the big issues facing the eu and by doing less and doing it better – taking tough but fair decisions on migration and asylum, cooperating on security, offering protection against those who wish us harm, and solving the problems of the eurozone while facing the challenges and opportunities of brexit. for while the process of britain leaving the eu will begin on your watch, let us hope that this presidency sees brexit about more than just the intricacies of article 50, but about creating the basis for a constructive and mutually beneficial relationship between the uk and the eu, a prosperous european union trading and cooperating with a prosperous united kingdom. let us hope that in addressing your specific issues of migration, security, the single market, social inclusion, the neighbourhood policy and the maritime sector, that the maltese presidency is able to draw a clear distinction between migration and asylum to ensure that the eu delivers a policy that is tough but fair, is able to strengthen security cooperation that makes our peoples feel protected and less vulnerable, to develop a single market that delivers less bureaucracy and more choice for consumers, to encourage social inclusion that learns from the very best projects in our local communities in each of our countries, and to develop a neighbourhood policy that does not mean a costly eu army, but the ability to take tough decisions on sanctions when they really matter, and also to encourage innovation and growth in the maritime sector to support increased open trade. so, speaking as leader of what is still the third largest political group in the european parliament, i urge you to throw away the template of previous presidencies and take the eu in a new direction. and if we can see real progress on your priorities over the next six months, then in years to come we will all look back at this maltese presidency as a true turning point in the history of the european union.
mr president, i attended the conference of presidents last month in malta. prime minister, you and your cabinet were at great pains to stress that your offshore tax status is firmly off the agenda for your presidency. you haven’t mentioned it today – how very odd. i was the only one in that meeting to tell you honestly that it will be firmly on the agenda in this place. higher taxes mean raiding our pockets to pay for their vanity projects. higher tax on electricity, co2, the financial transaction tax and a one—size—that—won’t—fit—all corporation tax are on the 2017 agenda. they hate the fact that you’ve established an offshore tax haven – and good for you, and i wish that britain would actually follow suit. they hate the fact that you’ve done that, and that’s music to my ears. as britain sets off on an exciting brexit future with donald trump in the white house and my colleagues here riding high in the polls, i’m actually quite optimistic – one of the very few who are optimistic about 2017. they may not get round to your tax status, as they’re too busy destroying our countries’ identities with mass migration, putting our security at risk, and their obsession with the green blob and gender issues. that should keep them pretty busy, turning a blind eye to your tax status. on brexit, it’s actually in the eu’s interests not to have the usual drawn—out free trade negotiations. i wish you well, and nice to see you again.
mr president, i would firstly like to congratulate you on your election and to welcome back the prime minister of malta. apart from the many important issues that we have already discussed this morning, there is a great opportunity under the maltese presidency to make progress on international trade issues. i welcome the fact that the council has reached agreement on trade defence instruments (tdi), but it has to be noted that this is quite far from parliament’s 2014 position. i hope his government will show flexibility in trying to find a compromise between the institutions. secondly, there is a proposal addressing china’s market economy status (mes), and for us this is a crucial file. together with tdi reform, they are vital in defending european jobs, not just in the steel industry, but more widely. so i hope that, on both tdi and china’s mes, we can work closely and make significant progress. also during your presidency, in the trade area we expect the european court of justice to release the eu—singapore free trade agreement (fta) ruling. if the opinion of the advocate general is confirmed, this will mean that it is a mixed agreement. that means that our trade credibility with our negotiating partners could be threatened, and i hope that at that point you would call for a discussion between parliament, commission and council to find a way forward on this issue.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, first allow me to congratulate you on your election. i think it’s interesting that the conclusions of the council meeting raised the issues of migration and security, because these two issues go hand—in—hand, as has recently been shown by the attacks on our continent. certain politicians, whom i don’t have to name here in this speech, should hang their heads in shame because of their dangerous and reckless policies which have allowed jihadis to cross our borders freely without checks. thank goodness that we, the uk, will be leaving. yesterday, our prime minister, theresa may, set out her negotiation positions. while i applaud some of it, other parts i find concerning. firstly, i am worried that the so-called interim arrangements and phased implementation is simply whitehall speak for a slow—motion brexit. i am also concerned that there was no mention of immediate immigration controls, which means that, by the time we are fully out of the eu, on current trends, we could have another million people come into our country from the continent. and no one in britain, bar ukip, is holding the government to account on these issues, mainly because the british labour party is a shambles that has let down working class people for far too long. i am, however, glad that the prime minister made it clear that we are leaving the single market. this would allow us – if the government has the willpower – to control our own borders, not pay a membership fee, and not have to comply with eu regulations and directives. so i say to the eu negotiators: now is not the time for empty threats. britain is not bluffing. britain will not be bullied. britain is not some sort of small nation on the periphery of europe. we are the united kingdom, the fifth largest economy in the world. we have links all over the globe to the anglosphere, the commonwealth, the emerging markets of the far east. it is clear that britain is going global as a result of that momentous vote on 23 june 2016. i believe we have a great future ahead of us. (applause)
madam president, after months of brutality and appalling news about the siege of aleppo, there has finally been a positive development, yet there is still much work to do. i welcome the un resolution backing the ceasefire agreement reached on syria last month, although reports say that it has been breached many times. after six years of war, syria and its people want and deserve peace. i hope that the upcoming meeting in astana will make way for a long overdue political solution for the benefit of all syrians. the eu has established itself as an aid provider committed to saving lives and protecting the syrian people, but the eu must also confront those responsible for these shocking acts, because peace can only go hand in hand with justice. the eu should support the efforts of the un commission of inquiry investigating atrocities carried out in syria. all perpetrators of human rights abuses in syria must be held to account.
mr president, i understand that five candidates have been elected for the five vacant positions of quaestor. are we going to hold a vote on ranking those candidates, and if we are, will we use the same voting method – in other words, a minimum of three votes? my group have made inquiries with the services, and they have not yet received a reply. could you confirm at this early stage, in case we need to change the voting list?
mr president, can you tell me whether catherine bearder from the lib dems and alde group is standing as quaestor still? has her name been put forward. is she standing? can you tell me? (response from the floor: ‘yes’) well, there are some serious allegations in the british newspapers – in the sun, to be precise: ‘pure greed: sole lib dem mep and arch remoaner claimed expenses for personal legal advice after “nazi” jibe at colleague [mr morten messerschmidt] – and for a charity donation she agreed in compensation’. that charity donation of gbp 300, which is the compensation you are paying to morten messerschmidt for the nazi jibe, you took out of your expenses. you are a fraudster, ms bearder, and you should not be allowed to stand. do not vote for this woman.
mr president, it will be too late then, because she may get elected. we have got the documentary evidence. the evidence was actually supplied by parliament. i can give you that evidence.
mr president, i would like to see that evidence, because it is incorrect. to anybody who believes the sun newspaper and someone who left a far—right group because it was not far—right enough, and who is also under investigation: there is no investigation into me. i have no debts to pay parliament. (applause)
mr president, the united kingdom has a famous historical figure called robin hood and it is therefore no surprise – or there should not be any surprise – that this proposed financial instrument mechanism is often referred to in the british press as the robin hood tax since it also purports to rob the rich in aid of the poor. well, let us just for a minute remind ourselves of what the expert opinion is indicating will be a direct consequence, and series of direct consequences, if this is enacted. asset values will be reduced, cost of capital will increase, liquidity in markets will, in all likelihood, drop and pension fund administration costs will increase. you could not put together a better jigsaw of market volatility, if you tried. now, does the european union really want to inflict this degree and this type of damage on an important sector that has places and locations and centres of financial expertise right across the member states? i would hope it does not want to do that. we have heard even this evening, with the opening statement, that further work is required. well i suggest two bits of further work: either bin it, or park it, and come back with something that can be worked through and delivered and is not detrimental to the financial sector of europe.
mr president, i would like to try again to explain what a thoroughly bad idea the financial transaction tax is. don’t you know who will pay it? it won’t be the fat cats in financial services: it will be their customers, investors. you demonise them, but they are responsible folk investing for their future in the hope that they will not become a burden on the state – mostly people saving for their pensions. when costs rise, the less well-off will be discouraged from investing in their future. an ever larger group of people will become ever more dependent on the state – but that’s what you want, isn’t it? a whole generation crushed by tax and regulation. that’s what this place is all about. in the process, you will discourage business from using capital markets and encourage investors to look outside the eu. the costs and risks of investing in europe are being driven higher at a time when the returns of investing elsewhere are much more enticing. i’m relieved that the uk will not be taking part in this tax on pensions, but for your sake i despair of the economically illiterate fiscal incontinence that will drive down your ability to be competitive, and of course the business will move to the city of london.
blue-card question. – what i cannot understand – and i would like you to try and explain to me, and i wonder if you could help me with this – is that the people who are going to be paying this transaction tax are going to be those who have invested in pension funds. it is not going to be rich fat cats in the city, as you seem to think it will be; it will be ordinary people who have invested in pension funds. they will be penalised, and so this is not going to help any sort of social redistribution of wealth. this is just nonsense. you are going to be damaging the european union as a financial concept. people will go elsewhere, to britain or to the far east, to do their financial transactions. would you agree with me?
madam president, in the next few days my colleague, the chair of the committee on development, and i will go with the international rescue committees to some of the most acute areas where people have been suffering from hypothermia – children, elderly people – and, for those colleagues who are saying that there is no suffering, the data from the ngos that mrs wikström and others have mentioned is very clear. the suffering is very acute and is built on pre-existing problems. this is not a zero—sum game. there is suffering all over europe – we know this – but there is a particular problem. for those of us who visited lebanon and jordan, we know that there is a refugee problem all over the world, but we cannot see in 2017 a situation where the cold weather will potentially kill refugees in europe. this is not a situation any of us want to see. in the short time that i have, i just want to say that in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we met martin verwey, the coordinator. we understand the relocation problems and we know the context. but i would just simply put this question to the commissioner, who i know is working hard on this. commissioner, i know you are working hard on this and no one doubts your motives. the question i specifically put to you is to ask, in this emergency situation what more can be done? what we heard from martin verwey in our civil liberties committee last week made us feel that this is not a sustainable situation for the coming weeks and we can do more. please give us some analysis of what that can be.
mr president, claude moraes and many other colleagues have spoken about the real suffering that is going on. ngos are telling us about people living in substandard accommodation, with thousands trapped on the balkan route, including unaccompanied children. we are hearing that there are 300 unaccompanied children in belgrade living in squats. so it is an urgent situation and we need to do something. elena valenciano spoke about the limbo, and in this limbo what we have to try and do is make people’s lives as comfortable and as near to normal as possible. one of the ways to do that is to get people onto some kind of cash voucher scheme. instead of people having to get their food provided by kitchens, and having to queue up at soup kitchens, we can give them cash to buy local food that helps them lower the costs and also gives a bit more dignity. i wonder if there is any update on the progress there, and also on the issue of children and education. there are many children who have been out of education for many years. i know this is a priority of yours, commissioner, and it would be very helpful for this house to have an update. to the maltese presidency, i would say that we know that you are doing your best. we know that greece is not easy. i am not here criticise greece. my own country hasn’t done anything like what greece has done. these are very difficult situations and i think we just need to pull together to tackle the emergency. and then of course we have the big policy issues we need to come back to.
mr president, while some in this house have been busy with petty political deals, selling out their ideals to the highest bidder, and whilst my own prime minister in the uk keeps distracting with an incoherent fiction about hard brexit, human beings are freezing to death on the street and in camps across europe. refugees and asylum seekers escaping war have been stranded outdoors with no support in temperatures as low as -30 °c, snowed under on greek islands or pushed back by hostile government authorities across the balkans. men, women and children who had managed to escape atrocities and war, and to cross seas and rivers are now being killed by winter and by our governments’ cruel intransigence. the un refugee agency has urged european governments to take urgent action to help these refugees and we, in this house, have called on our governments to act on their commitments time and time again. yet they have not done so – shame on them. i would recommend that all colleagues here do what they can on a personal level: donate to local grassroots charities, go out and help, campaign in person. yes, we need emergency support, but if governments refuse to act then citizens must, and i thank them for their compassion. i am very proud that people from my northwest england constituency – doctors, dentists, teachers, carpenters, social workers, youth workers – are all helping the refugees.
in writing. – we are all devastated about reports of refugees and migrants stranded in the cold and dying of hypothermia in the eu. it does not matter where these people have fled from. no human should be left out in such extreme winter conditions. but member states on the front line have been left on their own to deal with the consequences. disappointingly, only 5% have been relocated from greece and italy under the eu commitment adopted more than a year ago. member states must focus on managing refugee movements effectively in accordance with international law, instead of shifting the problem around. the uk government has not even allowed entry to one single child from greece under the dubs amendment, where currently more than 2 300 unaccompanied are struggling to survive in minus temperatures. time to act now! there are accusations of mismanagement of eu funds in greece for the most vulnerable. i urge you, commissioner, to ensure that there is a monitoring system in place guaranteeing the money goes where it is most needed. the situation is dire. our response based on solidarity, responsibility sharing and respect for fundamental rights is needed. and we all have a role to play.
in writing. – the eu ten-t programme is intended to improve transport connectivity in eu. the ‘small print’, however, highlights that the focus is on between germany and central europe. there are nine projects but only one involving the uk: this is through the midlands to the coast. hs2 is a highly contentious project, economically unjustified and with the reasons for its existence constantly changing to facilitate its construction. in all likelihood there will be a massive coast overrun. the combination of the brexit vote and the decision on heathrow expansion meant i could not vote to support the ten-t programme proposals. the uk, no longer as a eu member state, will be in a better situation to select and fund its national transport infrastructure requirements.
mr president, here we have a classic case of where socialist dreams meet reality. from the hermetically sealed, artificially lit chamber that we sit in, people decide to make plans and directives and legislation to change the world to achieve socialist utopia: fundamental social rights for children, women and workers all across the eu; a single european social model. here’s the problem: until then, it’s all so far, so socialist heaven. however, the problem is that we all emerge from the womb free. it’s not for the government or the eu to tell us how free. we’re free to compete; we’re free to have different views; we’re free to do things differently in different countries. let’s not stand in the way of human nature. let’s compete, strive and struggle to improve ourselves. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you; i think that’s the first blue card i’ve ever had, so i feel very honoured to have been asked a question! i think there is an absolute link between the european model of social rights and economic growth – it strangles it; it’s the whole reason why the eu lags behind in growth, and why countries outside of it grow quicker, with all these well—intentioned schemes and costly ideas. what you actually do is cripple your economies. a better idea is to live by your means, live how you can afford – and yes, give people good rights and good conditions, but let’s work for them, let’s earn them, and let’s compete for them.
blue-card question. – you just said – and i was totally mystified – that you should subordinate the economic to the social. surely, if you’ve got an economic mess, you cannot possibly improve people’s social conditions. surely that is complete common sense, otherwise it’s economic illiteracy. can you explain to me how, if you’ve got a catastrophic economic situation, you can possibly help people’s social movement or improve their social life. the best way to improve social rights and everything else is to have a booming economy. everything else, i think, is nonsense. so please enlighten me on how you can reverse gravity. i’d really love to know.
mr president, this report is a key milestone, and we must indeed refocus the delivery of the eu 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, paying much more attention to social education and employment targets, as well as properly recognising the contribution of culture in reaching the so-called social triple a for the development and wellbeing of individuals and societies. the european commission has already acknowledged that austerity has increased inequalities, social injustice and poverty in europe. children are among the most impacted and remain the group at the highest risk of poverty and social exclusion. if this situation is not properly addressed through decisive political action, we risk excluding a great part of the next generation. so, as a member of the intergroup on children’s rights, i am proud that the report we are about to adopt includes a call for the creation of a child guarantee, in line with the ‘investing in children’ recommendations, that will ensure that every child in europe at risk of poverty – including refugees – has access to free healthcare, free education, free childcare, decent housing and adequate nutrition.
madam president, indonesia is a prime example of where voters’ high hopes of an improvement in preceding government human rights failures might be addressed, might be righted and might be improved. but that has not been the case, and as we’ve all noted this morning, victimisation, persecution, denial of the free voice and inter-society violence continues unabated. however, care should be taken, and i do not agree with those of my colleagues who this morning have called on the eu to intervene in this situation. it is very complex, and a continent half a world away should not be interfering in a situation which should be dealt with by the geo-political grouping asean, but should leave it for asian countries surrounding indonesia to resolve. we, the european union, have a habit of intervening – intervening in the wrong way, as the sanctions against russia have shown; we’ve called, in instances, for political isolation; we’ve even called for active military intervention. all of those have shown that eu intervention doesn’t work, shouldn’t be used, and shouldn’t be allowed in this instance.
author. – madam president, the election of president touadéra last year was an important step in trying to rebuild the central african republic after the outbreak of a very violent civil war in 2012. the un mission there, which now has over 10 000 troops on the ground, is continuing to enforce the peace, but the realities of daily life remain bleak. law and order beyond the confines of the capital bangui is patchy, and acts of violence are executed with impunity. recent attacks targeting un peacekeepers are a grave concern. with more than 2.2 million people in need of humanitarian assistance and nearly half a million idps, the need for aid is urgent and cannot be stressed enough. in this regard, i am pleased to know that the european union is the largest donor to car and i welcome the multi-donor eu trust fund established in 2014. the launch last year of the eu csdp training mission is also a welcome step. the creation of competent and professional security forces is vital for the long-term stability of that landlocked country and a key part of ultimately transferring peace—keeping operations back to the government. i am also very concerned about the activities of the lord’s resistance army and the fact that despite joseph kony being indicted for war crimes, they are still now trying to find a foot in that country. i will conclude by saying that i hope that these efforts can contribute towards disarming the militias and restoring stability to that landlocked country.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in july 2015 i was the eu’s chief observer for the presidential elections in burundi. within days of arriving in the country, i concluded that the conditions for fair elections did not exist and that the media, the opposition and ngos were all being intimidated and harassed. the situation then was grim. since then, i’m sad to say, burundi has descended into total lawlessness. burundi’s once vibrant media has been decimated, the ruling party’s youth movement murder, torture, rape and extort money and possessions with complete impunity. with the media silenced, the opposition decimated and the judiciary corrupt, ordinary burundians have no one to speak for them. they have no voice or protection in their own country, so others must speak for them. i welcome the eu’s decision to extend our suspension of direct economic support and our restrictive measures against key figures, but we must be prepared to do more and we must encourage burundi’s african neighbours to take on board their responsibilities.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your appointment, and certainly your stance on italy right at this moment. on a point of order under rule 15(1), could i ask you to look at the future election voting system that we have just incurred this week, where it says the president should be elected by secret ballot. i have no objection to this, but why are we going backwards in time by using paper ballot votes that took a whole day to process under enormous cost to the taxpayer? yet, within this chamber, we have the facility to process secret electronic votes. i believe in future you should encourage this chamber to avoid wasting time and taxpayers’ money by moving for a better process.
madam president, in transport, as in other areas, policy tends to be constantly playing catch—up with technology. next time you’re standing at a busy junction, count how many people are driving for a living, one way or another – bus drivers, van drivers, uber drivers, black cab drivers and delivery men – and then ponder the thought that, in 10 or 15 years, almost all those jobs will be redundant – replaced by driverless cars or drones. a lot of people find that a very frightening prospect, and yet we’ve heard the same argument with every new technology. when the industrial revolution happened, there was a constant backlash of people saying that the only real jobs were on the land, and that there would never be enough factory jobs to support all those people; when the economy was moved from industry to service, exactly the same arguments were made: that there wouldn’t be enough jobs cutting each other’s hair and flipping burgers. but what those arguments miss is that when you free up time through technological innovation, people are liberated to create whole new industries that nobody dreamed of. who saw these things coming 15 years ago? there will be more jobs than ever.
madam president, i am an independent mep, and i am not affiliated to any political group. i supported the enf proposed amendment today and i want to explain why. the enf proposal and their amendment highlighted the detrimental effect of the single currency and the harmful eu policies which resulted in increasing unemployment and poverty across the continent. it also highlighted that employment and social policy initiatives should be member state competences, which actually is a very important perspective; equally, that only national governments can truly effect the financing of changes in these areas to deliver results; and the amendment also stressed the need for member states to take responsibility to achieve economic and social recovery. finally, the amendment criticised the eu’s blame-game policy, casting blame rather than acknowledging that fault actually lies with the eu itself. now i may not support the enf politically, but today they submitted an objective and valid amendment which i was happy to support.
madam president, after the uk’s departure from the european union the other member states will be much freer to push ahead with the harmonisation of social policy, which i’m sure will be a matter of relief to many members in this house. it will no longer be our responsibility, but of course we will still have a continuing interest in the success and stability of our neighbours. prosperous neighbours make good customers, and we are talking about countries which are old friends and allies. one of the things that i have found quoted at me many times since i was elected nearly 20 years ago is winston churchill’s speech in zurich in 1946 when he said: ‘i am going to say something which will astonish you. i want a united states of europe’. nobody ever quotes what he went on to say; he made it clear that britain would not be part of that the united states of europe, but would support it from the outside as a flying buttress, as a friend and a sponsor. now we have the opportunity, belatedly, to realise his vision: to have a relationship with our european friends that is based on cooperation rather than convergence, on alliance rather than absorption.
madam president, a number of members yesterday were questioning what the british prime minister had meant when she said she wanted some continuing aspects of the customs union to remain in force. actually if you read her words it was pretty clear. we are very determined – she is very determined – to leave the common commercial policy and to have the freedom to negotiate bilateral trade deals with america and australia and india and china and so on, but there may be technical aspects of the customs union which would survive if they were in the interests of all parties – for example, the rules that obviate the need for veterinary checks at every border. if all sides wanted those things to continue then of course it would be silly to make an ideological point out of sacrificing pragmatism to dogma. as i have said on many occasions in this chamber you will be losing a bad tenant, but i hope you will be gaining a good neighbour.
mr president, can i respond to the somewhat bizarre communist intervention from the german member jo leinen who wants us to ban and bar … (loud objections, catcalls and whistles from the floor) … oh, isn’t this just the european house of democracy! so you shout me down before i’ve even said anything? well, mr president, these people’s minds aren’t very open. can i just point out that it would be somewhat bizarre to bar and ban ted roosevelt malloch from any engagement with the european union, given that he hasn’t even been appointed yet.
mr president, can i just say that we have not seen the like of this outpouring of liberal left grief. were you outpouring, were you marching on the streets when president obama proposed this ban on these 11 countries? no. it is a 90-day moratorium. were you marching on the streets? you were not.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, according to a study by the cato institute – a well-respected and classically liberal us think-tank – no american has been killed since 1975 on us soil by a national from any of the seven countries listed in president trump’s executive order. so those of us who believe that law should be fair, that there should be equality under the law, that the primary functions of law should be enforcement of contracts and social order, will rightly be concerned by this arbitrary ban, which affects not only muslims, but also affects christians fleeing persecution and war. sending a message that there is some inherent contradiction between being a good muslim and being a good citizen of a western democracy, simply plays into the arms of daesh and other extremists who make exactly the same claim. (applause from certain quarters)it plays into their arms because they make exactly the same claim when they are recruiting disillusioned and disconnected young muslim men and women as terrorists. but whatever we in this chamber may think, the fact is that americans voted for a candidate who said what he thought, and now they find that they have a president who does what he promised to do. we must accept that this president, his priorities and these policies are the consequence of a growing tide of discontent to be found not only in middle america, but also in many of our countries. electorates have lost faith in mainstream politicians on both sides of the atlantic; electorates that have lost trust in politicians’ ability to listen and act upon their legitimate concerns; electorates attracted by simplistic solutions offered by politicians on the edges of the political spectrum. while we express our concerns over president trump’s executive orders, we must also realise that as long as the gains from globalisation are seen only in the portfolios of company directors and not in the pay packets of workers, as long as our migration and asylum policies are seen as more about compassion, diversity and political correctness, and less about ensuring integration, we will find politicians pursuing similar policies and making electoral gains in france, the netherlands and elsewhere in the eu. so every time a mainstream politician dismisses those who disagree with the current direction of political travel in europe and america, every time you dismiss them as racist or populist, this simply demonstrates an inability to offer a credible alternative. in the meantime, no matter how strongly we feel about the current policies of the us president, let us all ask ourselves: what is more effective? the hot heads of protest or the cool heads of diplomacy? and let us make it clear to our american allies that decisions of the new us administration in these executive orders, which lacked the support of congress, which are arbitrary, which have been purely planned without preparation for the consequences, will not make america great again. moreover, they will not strengthen, but only weaken, our transatlantic relationship. let us also remember that friends are more likely to pay attention to friendly voices of reason, not raised voices of anger.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i can see that you are all very upset here this afternoon and i’ve no doubt that the events in the usa over the last few weeks have been a very profound shock to you; perhaps you’re right. you see, what has happened here is somebody has stood on a manifesto for election, got into office and, within one week, said that he will hold faith with his own electorate. it is called genuine democracy – unlike the system we have in the european union, where the unelected commissioners like mogherini here have the sole right to propose legislation. so i am sure that it’s a great shock to you to see that a genuinely—elected democrat is doing what he was put in to do. and it must be, i would think today in washington ...
and out of institutional respect, president, to the truth, perhaps you will understand and agree with me that within the european form of law—making it is the unelected commission that has the sole right to propose legislation. if i’m wrong in saying that, you can throw me out of this parliament right here, right now, this afternoon.
i will be respectful alright, and perhaps you will be too – for the right of the leader of a political party that won the european elections in the united kingdom in 2014. it seems to me that with all the anti—trump rhetoric that is coming from everywhere, actually what we are hearing is the true nature of the european project, which is genuine anti-americanism. trump is motivated by protecting the united states of america from islamic terrorism, whereas what has happened in this room and in governments around europe is you have welcomed these people into your own homes. but can we just for a moment look at the facts, amongst all the hyperbole and the hysteria? all that donald trump has done is taken seven countries that were identified by president obama as posing a risk to the usa. obama had already put in place extreme vetting; what trump has done is, for 90 days, to say ‘let’s examine that vetting and see whether it is good enough’. what i want to ask you, mr verhofstadt, and all the others, with your faux outrage today, is where were you when obama in 2011 banned any iraqi from going into the country for six months? why do i hear no criticism in this chamber, or from the commission, of saudi arabia, kuwait, bahrain and others, who have refused to take a single – not one – refugee or displaced person from syria. and how can it be that on holocaust day last friday, not a single one of you criticised the 16 countries in the world that ban israeli jews from even going to their country on holiday? what is this hypocrisy? so perhaps what we need to do, mr president, and through you to the members, is to be a little bit more constructive. all of us here say we are democrats, well here is the chance to prove it. let us invite president trump to come here, to this european parliament. i am sure that as democrats you would all agree that what we need to do is to have an open dialogue with the newly-elected most powerful man in the world. and if you throw that rejection back in my face then you prove yourself to be the anti-democratic zealots that i always thought you were. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, during nigel farage’s speech a member of the british labour party sat behind him with a sign, all the way through, and not till the end did someone come down to deal with that. i trust that something will be done to discipline this member, because if not i will write my own sign and go and sit over there. it might say something like ‘sell—out’.
mr president, this communication is very welcome, given the urgency around the need to mitigate the negative effects of climate change. within the scope of the energy union framework strategy, i particularly welcome the increased focus on clean energy, rather than solely green energy. this is key. while the need for radical reductions in carbon are clear and well known, there are other notable pollutants such as nox and pm which also have hugely detrimental effects on both human health and the environment, and these need to be addressed. the commission communication does mention health. i welcome the reference to the new nec directive and the reiteration – albeit only in a footnote – that in 2013 more than 450 000 people are estimated to have died prematurely from air pollution in the eu, and lost days at work caused by respiratory disease amount to a eur 15 billion loss to the eu economy. it is becoming ever more evident that the transition to clean – and not just green – transport must be given priority. i would like to see a clear preference given to investment in projects that combine the two objectives of lowering greenhouse gas emissions, and lowering other pollutants. this should include incentives at the level of the citizen. it is no coincidence that people experiencing fuel poverty are often also those who experience the worst possible health outcomes. the transition to clean energy is already having a profound effect on the global energy market, and there are clear indications that clean energy is delivering record levels of investment, particularly in renewables and other new technologies. let us make sure that we harness this momentum to create record—breaking levels of health improvement also.
mr president, the main element of the commission’s current proposal is the revision of the ets system. you recognised the problem that you call carbon leakage. i call it driving energy-intensive businesses offshore, and you have decided to give these industries free allowances to redress the balance, but you have created your own catch—22: if you give them enough allowances to stay competitive you have no hope of achieving emissions targets, but to achieve your emissions targets you cannot give them enough allowances. you face a stark choice between competitiveness and emissions targets. you cannot have both. you are not cutting emissions; you are merely driving them offshore. you have also created a structure which involves perpetual market intervention and distortion and creates a field day for lobbyists and lawyers, as industries fight each other for an ever-decreasing pot of free allowances. the proposal to offer a tiered structure for different industry sectors only exacerbates the problem, and the use of the top 10% as a standard implies that 90% of european industries will be at a competitive disadvantage anyway. we face competition from china with massive cheap coal-fired generation, and from the us where donald trump promises to make low-cost energy a main driver of the us economy. a few years ago, our new president, mr tajani, said that our energy policies were creating ‘an industrial massacre in europe’. today’s proposals are the final coup de grâce.
mr president, we need energy. we need it to heat our homes, to provide the businesses that create our food, and we even need it for this chamber. but energy has a cost. the eu wants a low—carbon secure and competitive economy; they have created this framework strategy for a resilient europe with a forward—looking climate change policy. this sounds positive, optimistic, an energy utopia – but it is not the reality people will live in, is it? eu policy will control the sources, flow, distribution, delivery and billing of the whole of the european energy industry. it will suppress national governments’ abilities to provide the best energy services and prices for their people. in truth, once again, it is a classical big government power grab. infrastructure will be paid for by the taxpayer, corporate subsidies will be paid for by the taxpayer, and higher bills will be paid for by the taxpayer, while all profits will be distributed between the eu and global corporations. the user is always the loser in the eu.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the maltese prime minister, mr muscat, has predicted that the number of people crossing to europe will reach record levels. most of these people will come from libya to italy via people traffickers, as we know. the best way to stop these huge numbers of people illegally coming into europe and to stop the large numbers of tragic deaths in the mediterranean is surely to turn the boats back and process the migrants offshore. this is what australia did, and it worked. that is why six european countries have now been in private talks with australia, asking them which way to work things out, because they know that the eu way is failing. people traffickers are criminals. only today, we have been warned by italian officials that jihadis are actually plugging the gaps in funding for their actual campaign by smuggling people into europe, because their oil money is running out. the eu, and many people in this chamber, need to realise that their naive, soft-hearted approach to migration has not only failed, but has actually cost lives and funded terrorism and crime.
mr president, ms mogherini really excelled herself today with 18 minutes of complete hot air, as usual. let us go back to who created these problems in libya. it was blair, sarkozy, cameron, and obama – all gone, and cheered on by this place – yet we are expected to clean up their mess. but i have an answer. we should consider building a wall. a wall of nation-state naval frigates to block this invasion. and then we deploy special forces, again nation state special forces, to destroy the people traffickers and their vessels. let us get tough, because our human rights and our safety as european citizens are under threat. let us take a leaf out of president trump’s policies. let us protect our borders, our way of life, our culture and our liberties because – i tell you – they are under threat, and i for one, as the only female uk politician that stood by mr trump, am actually in total support of what he is doing. you have got such a rocket coming to you! you think brexit was bad: well, trump is with a nuclear warhead.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as an enthusiastic supporter of south sudan’s independence, it is very sad for me that there is so little to celebrate in its first five years in existence as an independent state. it has been plunged into civil war, and there have been widespread war crimes and atrocities committed ever since 2013. i naturally welcome the recent joint calls from igad, the un and the african union for a cessation of hostilities, and it is an encouraging sign today that rebel leader riek machar has indeed backed this call, but the fighting sadly goes on. i note that the king of morocco is on an official visit today to south sudan, and this coincides with morocco rejoining the african union after 35 years of absence. dare i say, at a time when the european union is shrinking thanks to brexit, it is encouraging to see that the african union is actually expanding. a further source of expansion for the african union could come from the re-recognition of somaliland, a promise that was made to me in person by a south sudanese leader prior to independence. we must now hope that the talks in south sudan can return under the national dialogue format, reminding president salva kiir that it is only with peace that south sudan and its people will be able to see the benefits of its abundant natural resources.
mr president, we have heard already that over the past three years in the conflict in south sudan tens of thousands of lives have been lost, three million displaced and 70% of women in camps raped. this cycle of violence must be broken. we have an arms embargo, but what are we doing to enforce it internationally? companies in ukraine have been fuelling violence through the sale of more helicopters; this cannot remain without consequences, commissioner. this conflict is the result of the failure by us and others to invest in inclusiveness at the point of independence, leaving ethnic divisions vulnerable to those vying for power internally. by mid-2017, five million in the country will be in need of food aid. we have to ensure long-term international commitment to food security and work with the region to re-open trade routes. i have a couple of issues, commissioner. what steps have been taken to push for full implementation of the 2015 peace agreement? what are we doing to promote social cohesion so that south sudan’s children are not a lost generation? and how will we be coordinating a development and recovery programme, with an effective emergency response over the years to come? (interruption by the president)after the rwandan genocide we said ‘never again’. let us hold to this.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, since our previous debate on the drc last november, i am pleased that there has been some progress in reaching a settlement for fresh elections and the standing—down of president kabila. the deal reached at the end of december was a breakthrough, and we must praise the work of the conference of catholic bishops in congo for mediating the talks. there is, however, concern about the pace of progress towards elections. recent reports of the escape of m23 rebel fighters from uganda and their crossing into the drc should also be a cause for alarm, with a risk of a return to fighting in the north kivu province, which could potentially be exploited by kabila as grounds for prolonging his drc presidency. similarly, in gabon we see huge violations of human rights and violence since the flawed presidential elections last august, so justice and reforms are absolutely essential in that country. of course, the eu must maintain pressure on the gabonese authorities to prevent a climate of impunity.
mr president, a case of female genital mutilation (fgm) in england is reported every 109 minutes. just think of what that means in terms of incidence. the fact that there such a level of fgm is an absolute outrage, but practices based on cultural or quasi-religious beliefs are difficult to eradicate, and when family members are involved it is actually near impossible. when authorities want to stop fgm being undertaken, but in many instances are prevented from doing so, then a resolution to the problem becomes that much more difficult. in the united kingdom, i welcome and applaud the fact that schoolteachers, border officers and many public servants are now at the forefront of resources to stop fgm. this is not an eu matter: this is an issue for member states, whose internal systems are best placed and can be directly resourced to thwart and stop this cruel and unimaginable horror – an affront to human decency. the european union call for zero tolerance for fgm is, as always, words. nothing that this particular proposal identifies can be delivered because it all contradicts the eu stance on human rights, that is to say interference in travel freedoms, the right to exercise cultural practices, recognition of cultures and societies. but member states can actually do something and that is what i want to see happen. if zero tolerance is achieved, it will be achieved by national governments.
mr president, i am proud to stand here with colleagues to reaffirm that the eu will continue to fight to end violence against women and girls, including the appalling practice of female genital mutilation (fgm), and this is another issue where european cooperation makes a real difference. we know that every year 180 000 young women and girls are at risk of fgm, so tackling that phenomenon must be a women-led effort in intercultural dialogue, actively supported by men in the community. we must support grassroots efforts working directly with communities, with mothers, grandmothers and sisters, to change attitudes and break a harmful cycle. we need to fund and empower the social services needed to support victims as well as community activists. the fight against fgm must be a vehicle for women’s empowerment and social inclusion, and i would like to extend my thanks to all the civil society organisations, and especially the end fgm network, who work on the ground and bring their advocacy and expertise to the european parliament. without you we could not do our work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, bananas are symbolic fruit. they play such an important part in the politics of some countries that the phrase ‘banana republic’ is used to describe a corrupt regime dominated by powerful corporations. how can it be rational that a tropical fruit which travels so far and bruises so easily is eaten more than any other in the uk? this modified regulation enshrines even more of the worst aspects of our irrational relationship with this humble fruit. its focus is to ensure supermarkets’ ability to continue to use bananas as a loss leader, so that their price does not reflect their true environmental cost. it simultaneously increases the risk that andean countries will lose the preferential tariffs which underpin the livelihoods of poor farmers in countries like ecuador, where 200 000 families depend on banana production, and 56% of the banana plantations are smaller than 10 hectares. the greens’ priority for trade is to ensure a comfortable life for all, without wasting energy and resources. our priority for agriculture is to protect the livelihoods of small producers against the power of global corporations. this regulation does nothing to constrain the power of such powerful retailers, who undermine the minimum wage in the ecuadorian banana sector. this so-called safeguard regulation dismisses social and ecological aspects of production, and should leave a bitter taste in the mouths of the millions of european consumers who choose a banana before other locally grown fruit.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, tonight we debate sustainability, and i see by the numbers tonight the importance this european parliament puts on the jobs of uk fishermen. the common fisheries policy does not know the meaning of the word ‘sustainability’. in uk waters, the common fisheries policy allows non-british fishing ships to decimate the number of fish, devastate the breeding stock of whole species and destroy the livelihoods and prosperity of whole ports such as grimsby and hull. the report also talks of external waters and fleets. it is straightforward: the uk must use brexit to regain control of our waters when the eu becomes an external fleet. they must take second place – play second fiddle to the needs of our ports and our boats. for too long, our waters have been stripped by others. it must stop, and i will do all i can to make it stop. so it must be goodbye to external fleets, goodbye to the cfp on our patch, and goodbye to unworkable rules. then it can be: hello, real sustainability.
mr president, for me the erasmus programme is the biggest success story of the eu. in 2014 alone, the programme provided the uk with more than eur 79 million in grants and allowed 36 734 british people to study, train or volunteer abroad. these grants helped – and continue to help – young people enhance their skills and employability and intercultural awareness. they also encourage young people to participate in democratic life. compared to previous generations of programmes, the new erasmus+ provides stronger support for learners from disadvantaged backgrounds, which i welcome. by funding cooperation projects, erasmus+ also fosters modernisation and eu-wide collaboration, which in turn stimulate innovation, creativity and improved job prospects. leaving the eu will have a major impact on higher education in the uk, with an important loss of income due to a fall in the numbers of eu nationals studying in the uk. losing access to eu funding, such as horizon 2020 grants, which accounts for a quarter of all public investment in uk research could further tarnish the attractiveness of the uk as a place to study for international students, including those from non-eu countries. furthermore, by ending freedom of movement, a hard brexit would deprive future generations of young britons of the chance to broaden their minds, learn a foreign language, enjoy a new culture and gain a valuable european experience.
mr president, i welcome the call for an integrated policy in sport adopted by this report, which addresses a broad range of issues, such as the challenges linked to racism and homophobia, the social aspects of sport and the need to ensure inclusive access, including for people with disabilities, the contribution of sport to wellbeing and health – notably mental health, and the need to strongly combat unethical practices such as match fixing, corruption and doping. integrity is a vital component of sport. we must restore trust in sporting institutions and re-establish the values of solidarity, peace and social inclusion that sport can engender. the eu should pay particular attention to the issue of human rights in sport. the circumstances surrounding the preparation of the 2022 world cup in qatar are deeply regrettable. it is estimated that 4000 people might die before the first ball is even kicked. the eu must condemn the abuses that have been taking place. sport must remain a vehicle for promoting human rights, not a justification for breaching them. finally, i’d like to address the issue of gender equality in sport and the fair representation of women in governing bodies: having more women in sport decision—making would have a positive outcome, not only on the transparency and accountability of sports organisations and access to sports activities for women, but might also counter the poor media coverage given to women’s sport and the socially discriminating and sexually stereotyped reporting found in the media.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, well, the treaty of rome is burning. and while it’s burning you’re fiddling, specifically fiddling with visa restriction rules. a lot of people were very upset in this chamber yesterday and there were some very disgraceful scenes, and it was the people who would like britain to remain in the eu getting upset with the people on this side who want it to leave. now the truth is finally dawning on you here that britain is going to leave and the european union is going to lose one of its biggest net contributors. perhaps it would be good for you to understand that the central issue on why we decided to leave was because of a loss of democracy and national sovereignty and control, and the biggest issue that brought that home to the british people was the issue of immigration, and specifically mass uncontrolled immigration, which is what we’ve had for many years, specifically from the european union in great numbers since 1997. to give you an idea on those figures, last year the official figure is that we had 650 000 people come into the country, but there were 825 000 national insurance numbers issued, so it’s out of control and nobody knows what the real figures are. to come onto the specifics of what we’re discussing here, this is a technical change, i understand, which would give georgia visa-free access to the european union for a period of 90 days, and as the rapporteur ms gabriel says, the eu remains a very attractive destination. well, it’s true that back in the 18th century dr johnson said the most attractive thing about scotland was the road to england. that’s still true, and in the 21st century equivalent the most attractive thing for many countries on the periphery of europe is the road somewhere else, and one can hardly blame them. now perhaps there is something that you should consider. the british people voted to leave the european union for many reasons, and one of the biggest ones was mass immigration. you’re actually making the problem worse for the european union because you are extending these visa arrangements to people, who can come, there are then very few or no checks, they can overstay their welcome, and once inside the schengen area, they can move anywhere else that they like. you are going to lose britain, and i wish you well when we’ve left. i don’t want to destroy the european union; if that’s what you want, then good luck to you. but you’re going to destroy your own project because the next countries that are going want to leave are germany, holland, france and more. so in your own interest. i think you should wake up to what’s happening in the real world. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8).)
blue-card answer. – well, there were two parts to your question. the first one was about brexit, and i can tell you that we want to leave as quickly as possible. i am the ukip brexit spokesman, and i’m writing a plan which would get britain out of the european union a very much a great deal faster than theresa may’s, and soon as it’s done i’ll be happy to send you a copy. the day that i leave here and britain is restored as an independent country, i will be very, very happy, and pleased to make you happy as well. the second part of your question was about 3.7 million people in georgia, i believe, and it’s not about the actual numbers in georgia – we’ve had this from every country in the european union. we were told that about 13 000 people would come from poland. i think that the figure is at least 700 000 – it’s over a million, probably, and we in britain have no problem with people going to other countries. it’s a matter of numbers and the degree. that is the problem.
mr president, when ms merkel made the monumental error of judgment by opening the doors of germany to those from all countries without positive checks, we now have seen the consequences. the european union, in its desire to continue to extend its influence – or, as some would say, its empire – is doing two things. the first of those is making the same mistakes by not making sure it checks those who are coming in. in the library of congress on georgia, it says that borders with turkey are porous and dangerous for terrorists. in june of last year, the georgian newspaper rezonansi reported that isis had established a special—purpose vehicle brigade of 600—700 terrorists to use georgia as a transit corridor for isis. please do not make the same mistakes, with your huge desire to have open borders between all countries of europe, that merkel made last year.
mr president, it amazes me how our parliament can be the best of parliaments and the worst of parliaments in the same session, all at the same time. whilst i rise and it gives me a huge amount of personal pleasure to be able to congratulate georgia on such a tremendous achievement, let me also make it clear that the vast majority of this house stands absolutely united in rejecting the alternative facts and the bare racism that is demonstrated by a very small minority of people in this house, who speak about things that they do not understand. i apologise to colleagues for my anger that is coming through today, but may i echo the words of our commissioner when he stands and says that georgia made him proud. let our commissioner know that this house stands united behind him because we have all seen those same flags in georgia. we have seen their commitment. we have seen how their sovereignty and territorial integrity remains compromised but yet they stand firm, through their people, on their european way. let europe stand firm with them. we owe it at least to them to stand united in the face of these alternative facts and this changing geopolitical situation that is emerging in the world today. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, adoption is a wonderful alternative for otherwise unwanted children, or a child that’s left in an unsafe environment. but what concerns me about this report is that it’s another power grab by brussels over the jurisdiction of family law. in the uk, there are strict laws about family courts, including the privacy of proceedings for what is and always will be a very emotive subject. but what i fear, with this latest demand for ‘more europe’, is that the best interests of the child may be put second to the eu’s desire for more and more power. and what happens if it is a disputed adoption? if the grandparents want to adopt? or one parent is actually fighting the case? how will that work if the child is taken across another country’s border, into another culture, or maybe where the child will be brought up speaking a different language? i believe that we all should be encouraging families to be strong and cohesive units, which is the best environment for bringing up a child, surely. we should not be making it easier for families to be torn apart. (the speaker refused to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)) in this parliament, a great deal of disrespect was shown to my colleague, nigel farage. unfortunately, until our colleagues can show each other respect, i’m afraid i won’t take any more blue cards.
madam president, sport is surely the supreme example of a non-political, non-state activity, the ideal of a civil society. a sporting club or association exists for no higher purpose than to give mutual pleasure to its members and supporters. nobody is forced to join, people stay only if they want to. so why do we need to have a sport policy? how have we got to the point where politicians need to get their hands on something that ought to lie outside the purview of government? having a sport policy always struck me as a sign of an insecure dictatorship. it was the kind of thing that the comecon states used to do in the cold war, to treat sporting success as a symbol of national virility. surely we in advanced democracies should hold ourselves to a higher standard.
madam president, now here is a subject with an apparently cross-border aspect. adoptions do take place across national borders, and it seems sensible to have a framework. of course, immediately one runs up against the fact that most cross-border adoptions are not limited to eu member states. there is a lot of adoption that takes place from outside the eu. and here’s the good news: it is regulated by an international framework; it is regulated by the hague convention of 1993. so why do we need additional eu regulation that applies narrowly only to one part of the world? i suppose it is conceivable that there are some gaps that need to be filled in. but again countries could surely opt in on a bilateral or multilateral basis without needing to involve the entire bureaucracy of the european union? i have said it before and i’ll say it again: international cooperation beats supranational government every time.
madam president, it is curious, isn’t it, that the european union has trade restrictions on bananas. it is not exactly as though there is a domestic banana industry in the european union that requires protection. a friend of mine in cornwall did once show me banana tree in his garden, but i don’t think it was on a scale that was of significant mercantile importance. the reason we have these restrictions is well-intentioned. we think we are sticking up for largely former french and british colonies in the caribbean, the ones that produce the little squashy bananas, if i can put it that way, rather than the big long straight ones. but we’re not doing those territories any favours. we are keeping them in a sense of dependency, we are preventing them from expanding into other areas, diversifying their economies and competing in world markets. and as a price for doing this, we are slightly pushing up prices in europe, taking a little bit of money out of the pockets of our consumers which would otherwise be spent on stimulating the economy at home. so everybody ends up being a loser from these restrictions. it would be easier by far to have free trade rather than these rules, which are bananas.
madam president, the european union common fisheries policy has incurred much criticism, and i believe rightly so. fish stocks, due to overfishing, are now in many instances at critically low levels. not content, though, with inflicting this ecological damage on waters surrounding the british isles, the north atlantic and the mediterranean, the european union has established arrangements to conduct the same activities in the waters beyond its jurisdiction. the proposed regulation would establish a new authorisation framework and extend the scope of the authorisation system to all european union fishing activities outside european union waters. but when the united nations remarks that the european union practice is endangering 1.5 million african jobs, and when greenpeace and the united nations are able to identify the source of the overfishing issue as being the european union, i’m very sorry, i was just unable to support the motion.
madam president, i supported this resolution, i think it is necessary to maintain a high-level relationship with georgia as with other eastern partnership allies. i will not repeat here what visa-free travel brings to the future, namely the strengthening of economic and other aspects. for me personally, the most important aspect is the geopolitical one, i.e. a country that is in the immediate neighbourhood of russia and is more or less permanently threatened by russia, finds its partner in the eu and we say with this gesture on the way that we care about georgia and that we consider georgia as our partner. so the geopolitical plane is more important to me than whether visa-free travel leads to deeper relationships, economic benefits for both sides, etc. it is necessary for me if we do not want the countries around russia to gradually fall further under the influence of this country.
madam president, i regret that i have not been able to raise this point in a proper debate, but i am making use of this institution. i want to say that i think it is important that the european parliament is also concerned with the human rights agenda in other countries outside the european territories, and that this is particularly important for countries that receive strong economic support. the eu is clear that these countries should respect fundamental human rights and the fundamental principles of the constitution and the rule of law, if that is even possible. that is why i supported this resolution, and it is good that we are drawing attention to the fact that both gabon and congo are violating their constitutions, that their presidents are not behaving democratically, that the rights of opposition, the rights of public expression, etc., are being suppressed. and in the future, i believe that if the situation in these countries doesn't improve, we should limit economic aid to this region, to this region of africa.
madam president, i have a very contrary view and that is because i see the erasmus project as one of the many european union sacred cows. it is directed at young people and it is focused solely on developing and encouraging the european union project. for the period 2014-2020, as we have just heard, erasmus has seen its project budget increase by 40%. i recognise that propaganda comes at a cost, and this is recognised by the european union when influencing young people as to the so-called ‘merits’, and i put merits in quotation marks, of the european union federalist project. but a country doesn’t need to be a member of the european union to be part of the erasmus project, and as an internationalist i see the cultural and educational experience that should be available to all within the educational sector irrespective of european union borders. it should not be conditioned, it should not be directed, and it should not be focused just on the european union. and it certainly should not be controlled by the european union. it is a big wide world out there, and i want to see more done with australia and asia.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, under normal circumstances, this debate should not be needed at all. (heckling)my goodness me, you are scared, aren’t you? under normal circumstances, we should not need to discuss the common application of rules to all members and groups in this house, but ever since the brexit vote there has been persistent victimisation of every eurosceptic group in this parliament, whilst, at the same time, we see the accusations in der spiegel of your predecessor, mr schultz, playing very fast and loose with the rules. the reason i want this debate, mr president, is to establish whether, under your new chairmanship, it is the intention of this place – and your intention, indeed – to treat all members equally and fairly, regardless of their political opinions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i support all calls for reducing the regulatory burden associated with bringing safe plant protection products to market and thus widening the toolbox available to farmers. this includes alternatives to conventional pesticides, such as these low-risk pesticides. however, my concern with this resolution is the narrow scope, with the focus only on biological low-risk pesticides when the resolution should be looking at all low-risk pesticides, in line with the plant protection products (ppp) legislation. i would also highlight the fact that there are genuine concerns about efficacy. many biological low-risk pesticides are just not very effective and this is why they struggle to get authorisation. i do not support fast-tracking these products through a simplified authorisation procedure if they do not work. the point of a pesticide is to kill the pests, and if farmers use a pesticide believing it will work and it does not work, the fact is that, in the seasons it takes to realise that, the pest can take hold, as we have seen with cabbage stem flea beetle in the uk, particularly with oilseed rape. there we banned neonicotinoids: i am not arguing about that today, but the pest has taken hold to the extent that we are now not able to control it with other conventional pesticides.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i think the commissioner has seen there is a big consensus in this parliament on the importance of getting the new consensus on development. commissioner, we will work with you and the maltese to get an agreement in the timescale you spoke about. you also said that there are interconnected challenges. your document is only one part of how the eu must address the sdgs. the internal aspect is very important, and that is why we place emphasis on policy coherence for development in our response to the proposal. i want to pick one issue here, and that is tax. we want to deliver on the whole addis agenda. yes on the 0.7% aid. yes on more private sector investment. yes on making sure more tax revenue is collected. we know that dg devco has a small unit on tax issues, but i wonder how much the wider tax issues of development are understood across the commission, and how are you working across the whole commission to get a proper tax policy that will deliver on the sdgs?
rapporteur. – mr president, let me begin by thanking each of my shadows who have brought us to this particular point, to mr belet, to ms guteland, mr gerbrandy, mr eickhout, ms konečná and ms evi. i did not believe we would get here if i am being very frank. just before christmas, when we were contemplating this being a committee vote, i really did not think we had the vote at all. and yet, lo and behold, here we are. and coincidentally, it is my birthday. it is not for me to suggest that passing this would be a perfect birthday present. but i might just hint that that would be a useful thing for us to be doing tonight. it is important to stress again that is 197 days since i was given this particular dossier to move forward. many of you here will remember i resigned as well during that process but you did not accept my resignation. so here i stand and again i am very appreciative of all who helped that be achieved. i should also again give thanks to the former chair of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, mr la via, whose wise counsel at various points stopped me going slightly off the rails, which was very helpful. i should also of course, as i look toward the front of the room and i see in the form of mr cañete, a gentleman i once described as the father christmas of the college of commissioners because again he brought back from paris quite an extraordinary agreement. and let us keep to the fore of our minds during both this debate and the vote that follows that we have indeed got to stick with paris. how do we ensure that we can stop the rise in the temperature of the globe? it is a simple as that. we often lose sight of it, and i have more than once lost sight of it, in various amendments, in various elements of this particular package. but what we are really focused upon, and i believe we must be focused upon, is making paris a reality. i know that the council conclusions are not there yet. i know the council is not yet ready to embrace this; but they will because they have to. and i hope that the agreement that we secure by passing this report will help move it in that direction, will help remind those member states they have a commitment which they have signed up to, that we must deliver against the paris ambitions. it is also important for me to stress each of the elements of the package. i have been describing it to others a bit like a jenga tower. i am not sure if jenga exists in all the member states of the eu but broadly, it is a tower of various blocks, and again the game is for you to pull out different blocks, hoping that the whole thing does not topple over. well here we are folks. the question is which blocks are you going to try and pull out of the agreement right now and will the tower remain standing? i do not know the answer to that. that rests, i suspect, more in your hands than it does in mine. but what i do stress is as you pull out each block, just remember: if that tower topples, we have to rebuild it and we will rebuild it in a much less favourable climate, literally, and will also rebuild it in a much more challenging way. so please be under no illusion, when you are considering which amendments you wish to pull out or push in, that we need to deliver a package that works for everyone together. it is important, i suspect, for all of us here; each of us has particular constituencies and constituency issues, but nonetheless we must come together to deliver what is required for the climate and indeed for the european union. let me also stress that we must make sure that the agreement is brexit proof. but i will say no more about that but leave that for the negotiations themselves. this is bigger than brexit, it is bigger that the eu. let us get it right. final point again. i have been very blessed by an assistant system called ross mckenzie, who helped me deliver this particular package. he is soon to be leaving my team, which i think is a bit of a shame. but nonetheless i am hoping through trilogue that we will continue to make progress. so let me conclude by saying: this is the time to get it right. we have got to pass this and i hope with all your support we can do that very thing.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, in the ecr we are firm proponents of market-based mechanisms and there are many positive elements in the agreement reached by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i do not accept the analysis that you have to agree with them all at this stage in plenary, because there are a few things that are not so good. one in particular for us is the issue of member states having final say over the use of their receipts from this scheme. in order to ensure their continued commitment, we would be rejecting the issues of fiscal sovereignty. i firmly believe that any legislation should be based on robust evidence. parliament should not simply add new components that have not been impact-assessed. if we are serious about reducing greenhouse gases, then the policy framework must be evidence-based and encourage industry to invest in low-carbon technology. moving the goalposts or, at worst, scoring an own goal, will not do any good in lowering emissions in the long run. we are particularly concerned about the late inclusion of a border-adjustment mechanism, added days before the vote in the environment committee, with no study on its impacts or costs. for the ecr, this is not the way to protect against carbon leakage. indeed, the provision of free allocations for those sectors most at risk is the best way forward.
mr president, i would like to wish mr duncan a happy birthday. mr duncan, i am sorry that i cannot offer you a birthday present in terms of supporting what you have done, but i am grateful for the effort you have put in. let us just remind ourselves about the european union’s emissions trading system and what it has brought about. recognised as being one of the most flawed policy initiatives in history, since 2005 it has been a shameful litany of mismanagement, hidden subsidies, lobby power, environmental degradation, job losses, theft and fraud. one of my colleagues made a very important point: where is the risk analysis in all of this? just think about the impact that this is going to have if it goes through – and i do not doubt it will. creating an impetus for unemployment and exporting pollution are hardly two aspects that this organisation, the european union, ought to be proud of. neither is the inclusion in the system of, for instance, aviation and shipping – two pivotal elements in making food imports possible. i am sorry, everyone: i will not be able to support this.
rapporteur. – madam president, thank you very much to everyone who has taken part in the debate today. i can think of nowhere i would rather be for my birthday than right here, right now. i know that i have not made everyone happy but i think i have shared a little bit of unhappiness across the whole spectrum, and that will be the challenge for all of us – recognising that we have to take a little bit of unhappiness. let me make a few points which are worth making. the emissions trading system (ets) is not working well right now: that is the first point. the second point: paris changes everything. the third point: we need to offer to our industry sensible protection but we must expect from them sensible efforts as well. it is also important that this is a stepping stone to a serious trilogue. i was trying to think of a way of combining all of these points with regard to their urgency. i too was in marrakech for the climate change talks. by the middle of the week i had clearly eaten something which i found a little bit unsettling. halfway between the conference centre and my hotel i was faced with a serious choice: i could try and go backwards and hope that i made it in time or i could try to go forwards to get to my hotel and try to make sure that i got there without soiling myself. in fact, that is what we have before us right now. the real challenge is to get to our hotel and get to that lavatory because we have got to avoid making a mess. the real danger we have tonight is if we are not able to find that compromise, then we will make a mess. it is time now to move forward. there is a compromise on the table and we have got to get there. thank you for your contributions. thank you for joining me for my birthday, and let us get the deal done.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for everything she is doing, particularly around tax justice. i would also like to thank mr szanyi for his excellent report and my colleagues in the committee on economic and monetary affairs who decided to support me in calling on the commission to investigate competition in formula one. colleagues, you may think formula one is just for petrol-headed adrenaline junkies but actually it is important for our economy as well. in ‘motorsport valley’, which stretches from the southeast of england into the midlands, motorsports provide around 40 000 jobs. these are at risk. a few weeks ago, one team, manor racing, became the latest to collapse after administrators could not find a buyer. smaller teams in formula one are punished by rules that guarantee bigger teams prize money, even if they finish last. recently the regulator of formula one, the fia, made a usd 79.5 million profit by selling its stake in the sport – a stake it had promised the commission it would not take on. we must stop the haemorrhage of jobs from this sector and keep a sport loved by 500 million fans as it should be – truly competitive.
madam president, mental health and well—being are poorly understood in our societies and it is time for that to change. we actively need to break down the stigma and prejudice around mental well—being. almost a third of europeans will experience a mental health condition during their lifetime and we need to educate ourselves accordingly. it is clear that we need to take gender into account in mental health. women are twice as likely to experience depression and anxiety as men as they face constant media objectification, as well as sexual violence and harassment. on the other hand, men and boys are also affected by gender stereotypes that often lead to repression of emotions. men are three times more likely to commit suicide or develop alcohol and drug addictions. this report is a strong call to the commission and member states to pursue an ambitious mental health and well—being strategy, which includes a psychosocial approach, taking into account the social, cultural and environmental factors that determine and affect mental health. it includes the impact of austerity policies, public service cuts, social inequalities, age and background. we need tailored policies to address the needs of the most vulnerable such as lgbti women and women refugees.
madam president, last week’s vote on the article 50 bill in the uk paved the way for a dangerous hard tory brexit. at this point in history, we have a responsibility to speak truth to power and take a moral stand. contrary to mrs may’s dangerous and dogmatic spin, brexit will not be a success for ordinary people and its consequences will be profound and far-reaching, affecting our global geopolitical position, as well as local communities. i recently visited calderwood house hostel for the homeless in cumbria and met men and women, including ex-military personnel, whose lives are being transformed thanks in part to european funding which kick-started this social enterprise. an erdf business development grant of gbp 1 000 has resulted in entrepreneur rachel holliday raising more than half a million pounds to renovate a disused building and establish a coffee retail service run by the hostel residents. this is not charity but the homeless helping themselves, and in doing so, lessening the burden on the state. without eu funding will we have this kind of enterprise in the future?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i feel like i am attending a meeting of a religious sect here this morning. it is as if the global revolution of 2016 – brexit, trump, the italian rejection of the referendum – has completely bypassed you. you cannot face up to the fact that this bandwagon is going to roll across europe in these elections in 2017. a lot of citizens now recognise that this form of centralised government simply does not work, whether it is the miseries inflicted upon a country like greece by the euro, the unemployment caused by bad regulation, or the feeling that none of us are as safe in our cities because of the disastrous common asylum policy. but at the heart of it is a fundamental point. mr verhofstadt this morning said the people want more europe. they do not: the people want less europe. we see this again and again when people have referendums and they reject aspects of eu membership. but something more fundamental is going on out there. yes, you can say they are lying and i have no doubt that many of you here, when you hear what i am about to say, will probably despise your own voters because last week the reputable group, chatham house, published a massive survey from ten eu member states and only 20% of people want immigration from muslim countries to continue. only 20% want us to continue allowing people in from muslim countries – which means your voters have a harder-line position on this than donald trump, myself, or frankly any party sitting in this parliament! that is where we are going and i simply cannot believe that you are blind to the fact that even mrs merkel has now made a u-turn and wants to send people back. even mr schulz thinks that it is a good idea. the fact is, the european union has no future at all in its current form and i suspect you are in for as big a shock in 2017 as you were in 2016.
mr president, the eu is facing many crises and this report was a great opportunity to change the direction of the eu. so who decided to give it to guy verhofstadt, because from that moment we knew that this report would have only one solution? mr verhofstadt is very consistent. whatever the question, the answer is always the same: more europe. so he calls for the commission to become europe’s government, for a new eu finance minister to head a new eu treasury, and for this parliament to have the power to levy taxes on our citizens. my group says ‘no’. britain did not vote to leave the eu because there was not enough europe; we voted to leave because the eu does too much. it has already taken too much power from the member states and has lost touch with its citizens. this report seeks to create a united states of europe. instead of listening to the people, it is telling them that brussels knows best. instead of extending democracy, it is centralising power. so, rather than strengthening the eu, it undermines it further. with the exception of one paragraph calling for a single seat, this is a dreadful report. the eu has to change, but not like this.
blue-card question. – is it not the case that in fact the beauty of the continent of europe – and i say the continent of europe, not the political european union – is its very diversity and the fact that we are all so different? is it not the intention of this place to harmonise, to homogenise, to pasteurise and to make everybody the same? is that not what is really causing this rise in nationalism across the european union? don’t you realise that now the emperor here has no clothes?
mr president, with this report the european union has once again demonstrated that it is actually incapable of proper and radical reform. it had the opportunity back in 2016, before the brexit vote, when our then uk prime minister came to the european union and sought reform and came away with, quite frankly, crumbs on the table, and you now know what the result of that was. one of my colleagues this morning has made the point about ‘more europe’. well, it is interesting, is it not? the european union actually sees reform as an absolutely binary decision: either you continue with the same, or, more europe. but both have been discredited and i just wonder when is this institution going to get real, take away the blinkers and understand that radical reform is what voters want. thankfully, of course, the uk will not be part of that decision, but if you are going to stop the rise of euro—scepticism across the continent, it is no good papering over the cracks, it is no good bringing a report like this forward, which does not deal with the issues that are out there, and every time responding with ‘more europe will actually deal with globalisation’ – that is not the case.
blue-card question. – mr ujhelyi, you said that we should look to history and read our history books, but the papers that we are discussing today talk about a common army, a common security system, a common banking system and common taxation. all of these were done by the communists, by the holy roman empire, by the egyptians, and by any form of dictatorship trying to aggrandise the people and control the people.
mr president, after a long hesitation, i finally decided not to support this report and i am taking this opportunity to explain my position. i generally support the principle that there should be some legislative protection for whistleblowers of criminal or illegal activity. they need to be protected from losing their jobs and so on. on the other hand, i was struck by the parts of the approved report, and unfortunately the parts that were actually adopted, that talk about the possibility of providing financial rewards to those who report illegal or generally immoral activity. i consider this a very sensitive issue which could be abused in the future, and that is why, because of this issue, because of the financial reward for whistleblowers, i did not endorse the report, i abstained, although, as i said, i am aware that a certain legal framework is needed.
mr president, in the digital age will information be used to empower the citizen or the state? frightened by the potential of digital information the uk government’s legal advisers are proposing to increase prison sentences for revealing state secrets, perhaps up to 14 years, and seeking to intimidate journalists who report this information. these are worrying signs that the uk’s decision to leave the eu is unleashing dark forces of state control and secrecy. but this parliament is standing up for citizens. we want them to reveal information of public importance about corruption or illegal activity by the state or private corporations. my work to fight tax avoidance by the rich and powerful would be impossible without information released by brave whistle—blowers like antoine deltour and hervé falciani. today parliament expresses our solidarity with all whistle—blowers and our impatience for an eu-wide law to protect all those who share information in the public interest. as greens we also reject the eu trade secrets directive which protected the secrecy of some of the world’s largest companies right across the continent.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, there may be some of us here who are familiar with the song ‘hotel california’ by the eagles, which contains the line ‘you can check out any time you like, but you can never leave!’. well the eurozone is rather like that. whatever the pain, whatever the anguish, whatever the hardship, whatever the austerity imposed on the greek people, greece is never going to be permitted to leave the eurozone. but the inconvenient truth is that greece is wholly unable to pay its debts. whatever the international monetary fund may or may not say, whatever the posturing of the commission and the council – which, sadly, we heard earlier – greece cannot pay its debts, and what should happen is that the lenders must admit and accept that the money they have lent to greece simply will not be paid back. in consequence, the lenders must forgive some or all of these loans. but unfortunately, there is absolutely no sign of this happening. it is not often that i agree with a marxist. however, the marxist greek former finance minister was correct about the loans to greece. first of all, not one cent of one euro in the bail-out packages went to the greek people. the money all went to the lenders. and secondly, the troika was, and is, playing a game – a comedy, a masquerade – with the greek government and the greek people, but this is very much for real. the game with the loan negotiations was, to quote, ‘extend and pretend’, that is to say, the loans were extended, but the pretence was that they could ever be paid back. greece has defaulted on its debts at least seven times since it became an independent country. when lenders lend to greece, they cannot expect their loans to be bailed out as of right, and certainly not at the expense of the well-being of the greek people and the greek economy. so, in response to the commission, to mr juncker, to mr verhofstadt and to mr verhofstadt’s groupies, of whom there are all too many in this parliament, i would like to paraphrase william jennings bryant’s famous ‘cross of gold’ speech: ‘you shall not press down upon the greek people this crown of thorns. you shall not crucify them upon the cross of the euro.’
mr president, the election of president trump is a major challenge for the liberal, rule—based international relations over which we in the west have been seeking to build a consensus ever since the fall of the berlin wall in 1991. trump’s agenda should be of no surprise to us for we have heard the same kind of arguments from the nationalist populists here in this house, who claim that globalisation is the idea of an out-of-touch, over-privileged metropolitan political elite. sadly, the populists now seek common ground and accommodation with president putin, who shares, for very different reasons, their same animosity and is only too pleased to exploit it, as we now see from what is going on in the french elections. trump’s continued admiration for putin, his lack of clarity regarding sanctions and even his mooted reykjavik meeting are very alarming. but trump is not ronald reagan, putin is no mikhail gorbachev and this is not 1987. that relations with russia should improve and normalise is, of course, to be welcomed, but this cannot be achieved at the expense of ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. i am quite certain that the recent ratcheting-up of aggression in eastern ukraine is a direct result of trump’s assertions and is probing the new us administration’s resolve. the eu must therefore remain united in its position and its resolve that ukraine – now, i am glad to say, growing well economically under the eu deep and comprehensive free trade agreement – cannot become a precedent for territorial annexation with impunity, and of course the minsk agreements must be fully implemented. (applause)
blue-card question. – my understanding is that you and your group support the decision by the vp to prepare for an association council meeting aimed at strengthening eu bilateral relations with israel. given the unprecedented steps to accelerate settlement construction whilst destruction of eu humanitarian assistance continues unabated, do you not think that holding a meeting in this sort of climate is likely to be perceived by the israeli government as supportive of the current status quo? and will it not undermine the eu’s credibility by moving away from its previous decision not to upgrade bilateral relations with israel due to the stalemate in the peace process?
madam president, yes, emotions are running very high in this chamber, but mr papadakis has just called the state of israel a terrorist state. will you be taking action in regard to that?
madam president, given the conflict and oppression that afflicts so many countries in the greater middle east, i must say i find it extraordinary that this parliament should be debating a resolution that puts in the dock the one example in the region of exceptional stability, democracy, freedom of religion and economic vitality. in spite of all the negative pressures, israel has gone from strength to strength. it seems that israel’s very success is the focus of violent and frustrated envy. if we look at the palestinian authority, half of its territory, gaza, is under the oppressive rule of hamas and out of the political reach of the palestinian leadership in ramallah. hamas is becoming increasingly popular in the west bank with a young population fed a diet of hateful propaganda towards israel. it need not be like this. i do not fall into the trap of imagining that settlements policy, unhelpful as it is, is the real obstacle to peace. we saw how israel evacuated its settlements in the sinai to facilitate peace with egypt, and in gaza to facilitate the ill-fated handover of that territory to the palestinians. of course, if there was goodwill, the elements of the two-state solution are ready and available. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – we could open up a very long debate there, of course. a two-state solution, yes: a state of israel living in security as a largely jewish state, and a state of palestine living without terrorism and recognising the state of israel. that is the sort of way ahead i would see there. but if we want to be helpful, then the european union should use the enormous financial leverage that it has to get the palestinians back to the conference table instead of encouraging them in false dreams.
madam president, the middle east peace process and the two—state solution has been suffocated. it is buried alive under the concrete slabs of thousands of illegal israeli settlements. they are war crimes under the fourth geneva convention. these settlements are an absolute outrage. every time israel announces new settlements or demolishes more palestinian homes, the international community just wags its finger and the eu merely condemns. the recent un security council resolution 2334 was without doubt an improvement. but israel says ‘take a hike’, more or less, and increases the rate of illegal settlements and land theft. israel must be stopped from acting with impunity. when member states breach eu law, they are faced with sanctions and infraction proceedings, but when israel breaches eu law, it does not face sanctions. we must suspend the eu-israel association agreement, which is predicated on eu law, and member states must implement the labelling guidelines for settlement goods.
mr president, most agree that the two-state solution to the israel-palestine issue is the best way forward. indeed, many international actors are signed up to this approach. my issue is not with strategy, but with the rhetoric and anti—israeli and anti-semitic statements that continue to emanate from parts of this chamber. the israeli government is on record as being committed to the two-state answer, but they have also said this is presently impossible due to the lack of trust between israeli and palestinian leadership, and indeed the two peoples. israel has asked the international community to help build up trust so that progress can be made, but their plea is often ignored, especially in this place. it is, of course, much easier to grandstand than offer anything constructive; much easier to criticise than offer a balanced approach. let’s just for once consider the reality – israel has understandable security concerns, and indeed concerns for its very survival. many neighbours call for her destruction at the very time that hamas sits on israel’s borders fomenting death and destruction. there are constant terrorist attacks against israel’s civilian population and a recognised rise of anti—semitism around the world, not least in this place. thus, israel pursues policies to safeguard her people and interests, and until until a palestinian authority can be trusted and hamas desists from pushing an agenda of extinction, it is unreasonable to expect the israeli government to enter into agreements with a dysfunctional enemy. i recognise that israeli settlements are a major obstacle to a lasting agreement, but the international community must do more to give her government the necessary sense of security to make tough decisions. finally, i hope this chamber can actually be even-handed and desist from anti-israeli settlement sentiment, which may play well here but in reality costs both israeli and palestinian lives. however, judging by what has already been said during this debate, i do not think that is likely to happen.
mr president, over my years in this house, i have participated in many debates on the middle east peace process. these debates always have the same tone: largely anti-israel, largely pro—palestinian. when we have members in this house referring to israel as a terrorist state, is it any wonder that – as one epp member pointed out – the european institutions are largely seen as irrelevant to a peaceful solution? indeed, given the election of president trump, this is likely to be increasingly the case. settlements are a huge issue and the current handling of them is unhelpful, but so too is violence against the state of israel. when will this chamber recognise that israel is an important economic partner, an important partner in the fight against terrorism, and the only fully functioning democracy in the middle east? this chamber needs to be more even—handed in its handling of these very sensitive issues.
mr president, i would like to join the many colleagues here in expressing dismay at the situation in israel and palestine. the so-called regularisation bill that was adopted recently retroactively expropriates privately owned palestinian land, in gross violation of international law. whilst demolitions of palestinian houses continue, the israeli government has announced the construction of thousands of new settlement houses – a move which is obviously part of an attempt to annex parts of the west bank. we approach a point of no return. this far-right israeli government has put the existence of both palestine and israel at grave risk. my colleagues and i will continue to support the civil-society and political organisations that stand up on both sides for peace and human rights. in the meantime i must ask: what has the high representative been doing on our behalf? please do not condone these dangerous moves. call off the upcoming association council meeting with the israeli government. demand compensation for humanitarian aid that has been destroyed and make clear that a line has been crossed.
in writing. – despite the recent un resolution condemning israel’s expansion policy, the government has announced a new plan for housing units in the west bank and east jerusalem. residential settlements in the occupied palestinian territories are both in breach of international law and an obstacle to the peace process. how can the continuous demolition of palestinian households and a disposition such as the regularisation law help the two—state solution? is this israel’s recipe to reach stability? these provocative acts will only drag the region into more violence and extremism. with donald trump now in the white house, i fear that israel’s prime minister will seize his chance to open a forceful new phase of israeli expansion into the palestinian land. we need the eu to use its leverage as israel’s first economic partner. if we do not act now, the prospect of a two—state solution – just like palestinian land – will vanish before our eyes.
madam president, i want to highlight the fact that progress towards candidacy to the eu is crucial for young people in bosnia and herzegovina, who crave a european future. they also need to play a full and active role in the negotiation process. but there are still key issues to resolve – in particular regarding peace-making, reconciliation and strengthening relations between communities. here again, i want to reiterate the importance of people-to-people contacts and civil society initiatives, in particular through the use of arts and culture, which are tools for both empowerment and intercultural dialogue. the perfect example is a pan-european arts and democracy project called ‘the complete freedom of truth’: it won a european citizens’ award in 2015 and it continues to grow and to develop young leaders. i also want to recall the role of women, including some from my own north-west england constituency, who have made and continue to make a crucial contribution to the reconciliation process for building a more coherent and harmonious society.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on education and culture i would like to recall that the eu and its member states must refocus the delivery of the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, paying more attention to social education and employment targets, as well as properly recognise the contribution of culture in reaching the so-called aaa for the development and well-being of individuals and societies. the commission has already acknowledged that austerity has increased inequalities, social injustice and poverty in europe. children are among the most impacted and remain the group at the highest risk of poverty and social exclusion. if this situation is not properly addressed through decisive political action we risk excluding a great part of the next generation. i am a proud co-founder of the parliamentary intergroup on children’s rights and i am proud that the european semester report we are about to adopt includes a call to create a child guarantee in line with the ‘investing in children’ recommendations that will ensure that every child in europe at risk of poverty, including refugees, has access to free health care, free education, free childcare, decent housing and adequate nutrition. commission, do not let us down.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to focus mainly on the report from the committee on employment and social affairs, not least because my group is not going to be supporting the committee on economic and monetary affairs report. we felt that the general message that if only we follow the growth and stability pact all will be well, fails to give some real weight to the need to ensure we have balance between the economic development that we need and the social dimension of our considerations, given that we want to improve the quality of life and future prospects for many people within the european union. and it is not just, i think, a question, as has been said earlier, about the pursuit of growth. it is a lot as well about its distribution, whether it is inclusive, whether it is actually reducing those gaps that we have, as well, of course, as its environmental effect. we welcome the progress made on achieving a better balance between the economic and social dimensions. it is something that this parliament has pushed for from the very start of this process. but we still want to assert that employment and economic indicators have to be on an equal footing, because this triggers an in-depth analysis and the corrective action that is necessary in relative member states. there is certainly a need for corrective action if we are to tackle the gross inequalities that still exist in too many places: inequality of income, inequality of opportunity and too much of that lack of opportunity is still based on social class and discrimination. and some of us in this house, in fact i feel a majority, still think it is shocking that we actually have a gender pay gap and that so many people are unable to use their talents because of discrimination. so we need to reduce those gaps to ensure that our social security systems can meet the needs of changing societies and our changing work patterns and provide a genuine work-life balance. we need to provide relevant lifelong learning, not least in stem and digital skills so that people can find new employment in decent jobs that pay a living wage. and we still have too many people in poverty even if they are in work. so we really do need to take seriously the question about adequate minimum income schemes at whatever stage of life you are in. as we have also been hearing, we still have far too many children disadvantaged from the very beginning of their lives and we do need to deliver on the child guarantee. and we also need to deliver on decent housing. this is an investment: it provides jobs, it provides social stability, better health and an important basis from which those that can find work can do so. and we would certainly agree about the engagement of stakeholders being crucial and this is something which member states have yet to really improve.
mr president, today’s annual growth survey report clearly warns that the eurozone’s recovery is extremely fragile. unemployment is declining modestly and growth is rising slowly, but dangerous economic conditions are not far away: eur 1 trillion in non-performing bank loans, sky-high national debt and weak investment; and italy is weak, while greece is once again on the verge of collapse. the united kingdom is a vital trading partner essential to the jobs of millions of europeans. therefore, it is of vital importance that those involved in the brexit negotiations seek an agreement that frees free trade and empowers the europeans to pursue growth, rather than taking the line of those in this house, like mr verhofstadt and his followers, who wish to punish the uk for daring to leave the eu, or demand that scotland leave too. these are the kamikaze messengers willing to sacrifice european jobs and prosperity on the dream of a failed ideology.
mr president, years of austerity measures have left the eu at a crossroads. populism is rising, confidence in the establishment is at an all-time low, and the uk is leaving. clearly, europeans are dissatisfied and anxious. as the famous saying goes, ‘it’s the economy, stupid’. therefore, i welcome that this house now considers taking a positive fiscal stance as an important political development. it may have taken us years to convince colleagues on the right on the need for more public investment, but i am glad we have got there, given the challenges that lie ahead for everyone. it is good that the eu is experiencing green shoots of growth, but that should not make us complacent. the growth needs to be sustained by four points. cmu needs to become reality sooner rather than later. future basel reforms have to be mindful of the impact on the real economy. it is good that unemployment is reducing, but we need to make a greater impact on youth unemployment, and the council and the member states need to take seriously tackling tax evasion, which will bring back billions into the european economy.
rapporteur. – mr president, canada enjoys one of the closest possible relationships with the european union. it is a country that shares a common culture –‘c’est un pays bilingue’ – with two eu languages as national languages, and that has a healthy respect for democracy and the rule of law. that we are set to ratify the strategic partnership agreement (spa) and comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) later today demonstrates the value that we in the european union place on that strong, traditional and lengthy relationship. canada, with its similar levels of gdp per capita, as an advanced economy and a nato member state further cements ties and mutual interests. for example, there are two extracts from the spa that, to my mind, sum up exactly what this is all about and what it stands for. the first reads, ‘the parties shall implement this agreement based on shared values, the principles of dialogue, mutual respect, equal partnership, multilateralism, consensus and respect for international law.’ the second extract reads, ‘recognising that sustainable globalisation and greater prosperity can only be achieved through an open world economy based on market principles, effective regulations and strong global institutions [...]’. i think these two passages sum it all up, illustrating exactly what the spa and ceta are all about, namely ambitious, free-trade, liberal multilateralism. these are the values that they seek to embody and defend, at a time when they need defending more than at any other time in the european union’s recent history. whilst my main area of concern, as rapporteur, is the spa, it is important that we consider this alongside ceta and the wider international political climate in which we now find ourselves. whether we look to the election of president donald trump in the united states or, in my personal view, the regrettable decision of my country, the united kingdom, to leave the european union, or the rise of populist, protectionist parties across europe, it is clear that the merits of free trade, multilateralism and the liberal international world order are, unfortunately, being questioned by many, and we must stand up and fight for them. such questions can be answered only by concrete results. this means increasing trade, creating economic growth, providing jobs and creating a safe and secure world. the spa and ceta will, hopefully, do exactly these things, and i can illustrate what can be achieved by defending these values that they are based on. to focus on some of the main headlines of the spa in the areas where coordination of efforts is envisaged, i will take a few areas of particular interest. preventing nuclear proliferation; ensuring the effective working of the international criminal court, now increasingly challenged; strengthening counterterrorism efforts and combating the financing of international terrorism; enforcing consumer protection; fighting the trade in illicit drugs; tackling cybercrime; and discussing the high north arctic strategy, increasingly threatened by an expansionist russia – these are just a few examples of what is envisaged in the spa. much of what we see in the spa is, in fact, the development of long—standing links and coordination. i am proud to say that 2017 marks the 40th anniversary of the initial political agreement between canada and the european union, all the way back to 1977, a testament to the long and enduring links between the two sides. it was only a year later that, as a student, i found myself living for several months, in 1978, in canada and appreciating at first hand the strong bonds and common culture that bind us together. existing cooperation between canada and the eu and its member states spans a number of key policy areas: for example, the europol agreement, active since 2005, which provides a valuable vehicle for the sharing of data and information in the fight against international crime and terrorism; canada’s consistent military contributions to the common security and defence policy of the european union; and our frequent meetings with canadian parliamentarians when they participate in joint electoral observation missions with the osce and nato parliamentary assemblies. furthermore, the visa liberalisation agreement, in place since 2015, will now be completed and extended to the entire european union, as agreed. trump’s attitude to nato and to the north american free trade agreement (nafta) will also bind canada closer to the european union on both defence and commercial policies. the eu already enjoys close political and trade relations with mexico, making it a reliable ally against any us attempts to undermine nafta. although the united kingdom is, unfortunately, leaving the european union, malta and cyprus will still provide an important commonwealth link. to conclude, the spa comes at a time of increasing scepticism about free trade and multilateralism among certain elements of the political class and voters. i believe that the strong relationship and record of cooperation between the european union and canada can therefore be a much-needed poster child for those values at this critical time, and that the benefits and prosperity brought by increased trade and cooperation fostered by these agreements are in both europe’s and canada’s interest. (applause)
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, as i have already mentioned, the strategic partnership agreement (spa) will have an important role within security. we saw attempts for the passenger name record agreement to go before this parliament, and it was referred to the ecj. i hope that eventually comes to fruition. there is also the creation of a joint ministerial council and joint consultative council for the first time, which will enable senior policymakers on both sides of the atlantic to exchange ideas. on how to mitigate the effects of climate change, canada and the european union will have to look at this very carefully, particularly with the risk of the melting of the ice sheets in the high north and the increased migratory pressures from sub—saharan africa impacting on the eu with climate change, a very important common shared challenge. president trump’s repeated threats to pull america out of the paris climate change agreement means an additional threat to global stability which the eu, together with canada, will have to face together. lastly, the spa and ceta will become the model for the european union to conduct future advanced close trade and political relations with third—country partners, including, in all probability, the so-called bespoke deal with the european union currently envisaged with the uk and the british government after brexit. so let us hope that this is a successful model, so that the uk itself can negotiate something similar after brexit.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, what is the canada-eu trade agreement (ceta) really about? it is about new jobs created by polish fruit exporters or italian tie makers facing lower barriers to selling their products in canada, it is about cheaper prices and more choice for consumers, and it is about allowing our small businesses to bid for public procurement contracts in canada. my ecr group supports ceta and other trade agreements because international trade is between willing sellers in one country and willing buyers in another country. opponents of international trade will often highlight the losses, but they fail to point to the often larger gains which are dispersed across a nation or across international borders. i am not saying that we should ignore these legitimate concerns. we should encourage lifelong learning programmes for workers in declining companies and sectors to retrain for new roles in the face of globalisation and new technology. we should address the concerns of both canadians and citizens of eu countries who accuse each other of having lower environmental and labour standards. both cannot be right. and we should also remind the anti-capitalists over there, and the anti-globalisation movement over here, that they are in fact the true friends of the multinationals, for it is often the multinationals with their armies of lawyers and lobbyists who call for, or shape, the regulatory barriers which keep smaller businesses confined to their local markets. (applause)so the ecr group will vote for ceta, as an opportunity to show the world that the eu is open for business, an opportunity for small businesses to create more jobs and opportunities for everyone, not just a privileged few or the large multinationals, to benefit from open trade. we support ceta.
madam president, today marks a milestone, when the european parliament votes on, and i earnestly hope approves, the most ambitious, modern and largest trade agreement with a developed nation that the eu has ever concluded. as ecr group shadow rapporteur on the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta), i have worked for years on this, as have others like my colleague, charles tannock, on the parallel strategic partnership agreement. the ceta trade deal will eliminate 99% of non-agricultural tariffs, saving eu exporters almost eur 500 million a year immediately, and will deliver near-complete market access both ways. this includes the best-ever services deal and it will also give european companies access to canadian procurement markets for the first time. in addition, it contains mutual recognition of professional qualifications for midwives, architects, lawyers and doctors, but there is no free movement and no access fees payable either way. it would make a very good template for britain. once fully implemented, the agreement is expected to increase bilateral trade in goods and services between the eu member states and canada by 23% or gbp 19 billion. it has, however, taken too long (seven years) to get to this point. two years were wasted on eu human rights demands, and another two years on the question of investor disputes, with the unacceptable investor-state dispute settlement (isds) system being replaced by the better investment court system. the eu must reflect on the time it takes to get agreements with any major trading partner negotiated if they are going to be taken seriously in future. if ceta fails, any credibility the eu has in negotiation will be lost, including with britain, so this is a vital vote from all our perspectives. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think the fact, as with all free trade agreements, is that it is better for people on the high street. it actually reduces the cost of food, for example seafood and meat coming from canada. that is good for the poorest people in europe. so that is what these free trade agreements are about. it is good for jobs, our ability to sell services to canada, and to break into provincial government in canada. it is good for that, and all of this comes without actually selling out in terms of workers’ rights, or social or environmental protection. so it is a good deal. for heaven’s sake, support it, otherwise we will not get any other deal done by the eu. (applause)
madam president, i will begin by quoting from an earlier speech i made on ttip: trade should be about economic benefits, not political goals, and yet the commission consistently exploits trade agreements in order to advance its own political agenda. and i refer you to commissioner malmström, who is here for once. at the confirmation hearings, there the commissioner stated in prepared remarks that trade is a powerful foreign policy tool and that it must support europe’s wider international goals. the intention is clear: member states are being forced to barter and – if you can forgive the pun – trade away their sovereignty in order to support the eu’s foreign policy. this is sheer vanity. the eu should not manipulate the trade of the member states in order to promote the foreign policy pretensions of a wannabe european superstate. (applause from some quarters ) now, to the detail, and this is particularly important: in ceta, there is no clause, none, that confers freedom of movement on the citizens of canada, nor freedom of movement into canada for citizens of the eu member states. it is a fact that the european union has well over 100 trade agreements if you include gsp and gsp+, and all of these it is only the efta countries, of which there are four, whose specific form of trade agreement with the eu has a clause that confers freedom of movement. nevertheless, it is endlessly asserted that any access at all to the eu single market requires freedom of movement. the facts are clear: this is wrong. this is completely untrue. it is erroneous; it is total tosh. and it is a tragedy for the integrity and credibility of our politics that many of those who stand in the way of brexit persist in putting forward this false fact. that is fake news; that – labour meps in particular, and they know who they are – that is the big lie. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – do you not agree with me that the whole basis of negotiating a trade agreement would be that you actually put somebody in charge who knows what they are doing. why have we got a former socialist sociology lecturer from sweden negotiating on behalf of the uk, which will bind us after brexit? she’s not qualified to do the job.
blue-card answer. – if i may say so, i would point out that, at the hearings, three political groups voted against the confirmation of the present eu trade commissioner, and if only the ecr had joined us she probably wouldn’t have happened. as it is, we have somebody who is completely unqualified, and that is the person who the 27 other member states are unfortunately stuck with.
madam president, i would like to say this: ‘o canada’, how long the eu has kept you waiting. after seven long years, the champions of free trade have battled through, and now we are at the final furlong. to be clear, ceta is an ambitious, modern and comprehensive trade agreement, which will bring tremendous benefits to the eu as a whole and to each one of the member states. once fully implemented, it is expected to increase bilateral trade between the eu and canada by 23%, representing approximately eur 26 billion per year. it will lead to the creation of jobs and economic growth, allowing small and medium-size enterprises access to the canadian market, free of barriers. as a champion of free trade, i welcome this agreement and look forward to seeing a positive vote in this chamber today. in times of growing protectionism, the eu must not underestimate the benefits of trade agreements like this, especially when we are negotiating with reliable and strategic partners such as canada who are, and remain, our allies.
madam president, even when i disagree with them, i normally understand where my colleagues in the greens and my friends on the left are coming from, but frankly in relation to ceta i just do not get it. ceta creates employment opportunities. ceta protects public services, no forced privatisation, no ratchet clause. ceta defends our right to regulate, so no frankenstein foods in our market, no threat to food safety. it contains an ambitious labour chapter. it commits our partners to multilateral environment agreements at a time when trump threatens the paris accord, a vital thing. it kills investor-state dispute settlement (isds) and replaces it with a modern, fair system of investment protection. so what is it beyond the rhetoric, beyond the words that this is good for corporations, what is it in ceta that they really object to, because i do not hear it? i hear a lot of words, but i hear no substance in their objection to ceta, and that is what they should be standing up for. we live in a world that faces real dangers of protectionism. with this progressive deal, canada and the eu are not only keeping markets open, they are keeping those markets open on the basis of common values, and that is something we should applaud.
madam president, commissioner, ceta has been many years in the making and we are now at the final stage. canada is a country very similar to ourselves. if we cannot do a trade deal with canada, who can we do a trade deal with? there are many historical ties between my constituency of northern ireland, and canada, and we have significant economic ties today. for instance the canadian company bombardier has operations in northern ireland and i hope that once this deal is in place it will strengthen and deepen those ties. we all know that any trade deal is not perfect and ceta comes with positives and also negatives, we are well aware of that. when the united kingdom eventually leaves the european union and embarks on its own trade policy, i hope it takes a balanced approach. the government seems to believe at the moment that we can do deals quickly. i believe quick deals are bad deals for the people. throughout discussions on ceta, ttip and mercosur, i have repeatedly made the point that the european union must not use agriculture as a bargaining chip, and i will continue to make that case as the united kingdom embarks on its own bilateral trading relationships.
madam president, is it in order for members to absent themselves from the debates and leave big placards rather than actually take part in the debate?
rapporteur. – madam president, what has been very clear to me today in the debate is that – across the house, other than for a minority of alarmist, protectionist and isolationist voices on the far left and right of the chamber – there is near-universal appreciation for the strong ties that exist between canada and the european union. our shared culture, democratic norms and history bind us together in a way that is unique. it is vital that the eu champions those shared values to maintain the levels of prosperity and success that we enjoy today and to stand together as strong advocates for free trade and liberal multilateralism across the globe. the eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the strategic partnership agreement (spa) will act as a model for future trade and political relationships between the european union and third countries. this is also a potential model around which the united kingdom could base its future trade relationships with the eu post—brexit. fighting international crime and terrorism, tackling climate change and ensuring continued space for economic growth and job creation in an era of globalisation and technological change are all issues that cross borders, and they can only be tackled by democracies like canada and the eu member states working together. as these changes take effect, it is vital that we all pull together to ensure that they work for all our citizens, and that we do not allow our economies to drift towards the simple allure of nationalism, isolationism and protectionism that can only lead to less prosperity and security for our citizens. it has taken many years to reach today and to conclude these deals, but as we are now finally moving in this house to ratify the spa and ceta, it is clear that this time and effort has been very well worthwhile. (applause)
in writing. – meps received very large numbers of messages from constituents, expressing opposition to this ceta deal. i am not against trade deals. scotland is a trading nation, with a long history of building valuable commercial links around the world. i want that to continue. although i acknowledge that changes in the ceta deal have been achieved, these improvements had been strongly resisted, and only very grudgingly given when serious democratic challenges have been mounted, such as the wallonian opposition to the original text and the threat of resistance to isds in this parliament. i find myself unconvinced that the current ceta text is the best deal available, and am very suspicious of the moves to limit debate and steamroller the deal to a conclusion, both at westminster recently and in this parliament where the normal committee processes have been curtailed. labour law standards have not been adequately safeguarded and an envisaged consultation process remains opaque in its eventual effect. the investor court system, while admittedly improved, will still undermine the general corporate law by developing a specific, and unnecessary, supranational court for investors. these are just some of the reasons why i will vote against giving consent at this time.
mr president, ahead of such a controversial vote i thought it might be quite nice to break the tense atmosphere here with some good news and point out that on 6 february 2017 her majesty the queen celebrated her sapphire jubilee: 65 years on the throne in the united kingdom. i think colleagues would like to join me in paying their respects to her majesty the queen, especially colleagues from the commonwealth, from malta and from cyprus.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who helped us get to this point. there is an expression in the english language, which is called ‘squeaky bum time’. i think we have lived through that today and yesterday and for several months. i would now like to request a mandate to refer this back to committee in order to begin interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, i am very sorry to take up 60 seconds of your time, but i think it is essential people in this chamber know what they are about to vote on. charities, religious groups and many businesses support rejection of this technical standard because they are concerned about the impact of speculation on food commodity prices. many of you will know that those spikes in food commodity prices have been linked to famine in some countries, pushing millions of people into poverty. we are asking for a very small change to tighten up rules. national regulators will still have the power to loosen those rules if they have to, and farmers who use derivative markets to hedge their bets are accepted. please, whatever group you are in, reject these technical standards.
mr president, removing barriers to trade boosts growth, encourages innovation, raises wages and gives consumers greater choices, and in the case of the eu-canada deal it even gives us cheaper chocolate. this is a good deal. but the canada deal is not the best template for the future relationship between the uk and europe, as our own trade is much more sophisticated and intertwined, especially in key 21st—century economic sectors. high product standards underpinned by the mutual recognition principle is what this relationship is based on, and i hope that the uk-eu deal will be a much more advanced and future-looking partnership.
mr president, today, in the face of absolute commercial trade logic, the eu parliament actually capitulated and gave away a huge amount in terms of what is common sense in trade policy. everything about trade policy is about generating jobs and protecting people; it is not about succumbing to lobbyists and to bigger principles from the big corporates. but that is what we gave away today and, in doing so, the united kingdom may well have given away the protection that the national health service has enjoyed. indisputably, what was also sanctioned today was the investment and court system being brought into play. that is going to allow big corporates to sue governments if they want to. is that really the future for trade policy across europe? i do not think it is. so today a very, very disappointing decision by this chamber.
mr president, free trade is something i believe it when it is fair and when it enables all the parties in each country to trade freely. but this eu-canada comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) is not one of free trade. it is not one that is fair. it is not one that can be fair when the corporates were the only ones invited to make agreements in secret with the commissioners, when investors will be able to sue freely through the new investor court system, and when corporations will actually be invited to make the rules. there were no protections for the national health service, which is vital to the united kingdom. wallonia opposed it and was bought off. our parliaments do not have the opportunity to vote on it before it is in place. people emailed me in their thousands: they have been ignored. demonstrators were dragged away in this chamber: they have been ignored. huge corporates and wealthy bureaucrats won today. the people, democracy and trade lost.
mr president, i voted against ceta today. ceta negotiations were done behind closed doors, between the unelected commission and the canadian government. on 14 october last year, the regional parliament of wallonia in belgium voted to block ceta. however, two weeks later, the canadian prime minister was in belgium signing the deal with the commission. we do not fully know what was discussed behind closed doors, as is always the case with the commission, but we do know that the documents were signed, despite elected representatives saying ‘no’ and the people saying ‘no’. welcome to democracy, eu style. ceta has not been designed to benefit my constituents. instead it benefits big business and global cooperation.
mr president, policies on energy and emissions are areas where countries need to work together. carbon emissions are a real danger and the eu emissions trading system (ets) has not worked. this is a good review: it focuses on those industries which produce the most emissions and it has simplified the rules for smaller companies. it will give industry the incentive to modernise and innovate and will help european countries to live up to their international commitments. however, it is important that europe remains a place in which it is attractive for industry to be located, and we must not simply export our energy-intensive sectors to other parts of the world. the tax on our borders was not the right solution and it is good to see that part of the package rejected. i am pleased that this work has been led by a british negotiator. i wish him and the rest of the team the best of the luck at the next negotiating stage, and i hope that in a post-brexit world, the uk and eu will continue to work together on areas of mutual interest, like this.
mr president, there is the law of unintended consequences, and then there is the law of unintended consequences as it applies to the european union in its rule-making capacity. here today we have a policy that says we want to try and reduce emissions and bring low-carbon investments to europe, but the law of unintended consequences is very clear, in a very small rule that you heard about in this chamber today from members from poland to ireland to greece and now the united kingdom: the border adjustment mechanism will simply drive jobs out of the united kingdom and across europe. we have in the british ceramic sector an industry of some 5 000 people. in concrete we are talking about 15 000 jobs and in industries such as our building industry 2.93 million jobs. all of them are under threat from the fact that this regulation will increase their costs and, as the commission says, potentially close down 20 factories across europe. it is a bad law and, once again, it has been made here.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i am not going to pretend to sir julian that it is easy, but the eu does not actually help itself. there are some simple steps that we can take. first, we close our borders and we have to abandon schengen. unpalatable as it is in here, that is the only way to stop the spread of terrorism. the nation states have to pay their fair share into nato, as you have been told by mr trump. nation states have to take responsibility for their own borders, not guy verhofstadt’s idiotic idea of a barmy eu army. let us join trump in banning travel from those states which are exporting hate and terrorism. we have got to build our own walls. let us tear up the passports of those who are travelling to train as terrorists. they will not be stateless. it is not against international law. they will be citizens of isis. that is what they want. at home what we can do – and i suggest you do it in your own states as well – is to increase the recruitment of the police force, the armed services, prison officers; border control is essential, as are our intelligence services. let us protect our citizens, because the eu’s policies put us in danger. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well actually, as a thatcherite and reaganite conservative, yes, i do want to conserve money – but money is being spent, wrongly, especially the waste that goes on in this place. we should be reinforcing our borders. that is the only way we can do it, and actually investing in our own border-force people and across that. and there was a survey by the chatham house institute back in the uk that said that 80% of your citizens do not want muslim migration. so you’re not listening, are you? and who is it who is causing all the terrorism? it is the basis of isis, it is muslim terrorism. it is islam.
mr president, my constituency has long been plagued by the scourge of terrorism. successful attacks are now thankfully irregular and generally isolated. nevertheless, we must maintain vigilance and remember the victims. the murderous campaign of the ira left much hurt and devastation, many empty chairs. the people of northern ireland know and understand the need to stand firmly with our european neighbours against the scourge of terrorism. we must never allow terrorists to control the narrative, indulge their revisionism or glorify their deeds to radicalise a new generation. we have some in northern ireland who propagate such revisionism. they seek to revise history to justify their evil deeds. instead, we must give victims a voice. they require protection, specialist support to respond to their specific needs. and as we assist victims, so too experience has taught us to guard against complacency.
mr president, as someone who has spent decades involved in conflict resolution, i am disappointed at the security-driven approach that is contained in this directive. in order to deal with conflict we have to address the causes of conflict. what is the political context? what is the social and economic context? what avenues exist to address grievances and pursue legitimate political objectives? not all situations are the same and the right to assist is valid in certain circumstances. but let us be clear. is murder indiscriminately. they oppress and abuse people of all faiths and none. so processes of conflict resolution will not apply in all situations. however, increased repression is more likely to fuel further acts of violence than to reduce them. and limiting civil rights and freedom of expression will not make society safer. according to the european parliament’s research services, all of the stakeholders that followed this legislative file have expressed serious concerns about this directive, and they should be listened to. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the blue card. you talk about is murdering indiscriminately. would you agree with me that the ira also murdered indiscriminately? to the families of those who died at kingsmill and the family of edgar graham, who is today in the news in a controversy because the law lecturer in queens university refused to condemn that murder, would you also agree that those were indiscriminate acts?
blue-card answer. – thank you, diane, for that question. i think what is important for all of us who have come from a situation where we are emerging from conflict is to show and demonstrate in a parliament like this that building peace is more important than fighting a war. we, you and i, could trade statistics of incidents and tragedies, and that, of course, would keep us all looking backwards. there are lots of families, and you have mentioned some here today, who, without doubt, deserve the kind of justice that they are seeking. this week i had three families over here in this parliament – the brother of pat finucane and the daughter of a woman who was murdered by the british state, by british soldiers, and a son whose father had been killed, respectively 42 and 46 years ago. these people are just looking for a basic inquest. they are looking for the stormont house agreement to be taken forward. i know the commissioner is very aware of the work that we have done thus far, and we would hope that he and others would support the kind of conflict resolution that we are involved in.
mr president, when we are talking about combating terrorism, we must pay tribute to the men and women of the armed forces and the police, who have given service and made sacrifices in tackling the terrorist threats. during the decades of terrorism in northern ireland, the police and the army sought to prevent terrorists from plunging my region into anarchy and civil war, and now we have a witch—hunt against elderly former soldiers who are being questioned and brought before the courts in connection with events that happened more than 40 years ago. meanwhile, the 200 ira terrorist suspects have been getting letters of comfort and others have received royal pardons. there are some people, including in this parliament, who are trying to rewrite the history of northern ireland’s past. i sincerely hope we do not let them do it. we have had many atrocities and i could go on and deliver them at great length from warrenpoint to tullyvallen to harrods to warrington and all over the united kingdom. let me make it very clear: all terrorism is wrong and cannot be condoned, nor can it ever be justified by anyone. we must keep a sense of proportion and ensure that, in investigating the past, we do not focus disproportionately on the actions of those who sought to keep our community safe and who suffered grievously in the process. i would urge all members not to be taken in by the cynical self-serving attempts to whitewash the crimes of history. and yes, mrs hohlmeier, you are so right. the victims are the most important, not the victim—makers.
mr president, i believe it is important that we stress the importance of education, and engagement with those vulnerable to radicalisation, in combating terrorism. nothing can justify extremism, but we must acknowledge that it does not arise in a vacuum. narratives of grievances, actual or perceived injustice, promised empowerment and sweeping change become attractive where human rights are being violated, good governance is being ignored and aspirations are being crushed. violent extremists have been able to recruit over 30 000 foreign fighters from over 100 nations to travel to syria, iraq, libya, yemen and afghanistan, according to the un secretary-general. some of them will no doubt be horrified by what they see and will be anxious to put those experiences behind them, but others have already returned to their home countries to spread hatred, intolerance and violence in their own communities. we will not be successful in combating terrorism unless we can harness the idealism, creativity and energy of young people and others who feel disenfranchised. young people must be viewed as an asset and must be empowered to make a constructive contribution to the political and economic development of their societies and nations. we must offer them a positive vision in their future, together with a genuine chance to realise their aspirations and their potential. the same applies to those states we have neglected, whether economically or politically. our security services can only do so much to protect us, and as we are constantly told, the terrorists only have to get lucky once. we need to change hearts and minds, and while strengthening legal definitions and formalising cooperation might help, ultimately we need to successfully challenge the whole ideology behind the extremist narrative.
madam president, last year the leader of the german country, mrs merkel, entered a monumental madness by opening the borders to millions of people who fled into that country. since then, we have seen the impact of that across her nation. we have even now seen her making apologies for the mistakes that she said she made. on this side of the house, you heard people say that you needed to have border controls – checks to ensure that the people coming into the country, were not terrorists, could not commit crimes. well, we were ridiculed, name-called: xenophobes, racists, casually thrown out. and yet here, in this paper today, and i quote from its own line, says that border controls are in the interests of member states. those of us on this side of the house who have been saying that for years are now vindicated. only the people of europe are saying ‘why did it take you so long to come to the same conclusion?’
madam president, as we all know, europe is facing huge security concerns from the current terrorist threat, and the introduction of systematic checks at the eu’s external borders is a tool that can contribute to dealing with the increase in foreign terrorist fighters. so i support this targeted response in order to increase the security in europe, and i welcome this report from my colleague ms macovei. however, this approach can only work if there is access to reliable data in eu databases, such as the schengen information system, and national and international databases. so, strengthening information systems and working towards interoperability is vital to the success of these checks. i also welcome the flexibility in the regulation that will allow targeted checks. overall, this is not a silver bullet, but if implemented properly it can play a useful part in shoring up europe’s security at the point of entry in order to detect threats from terrorism and serious organised crime. i support this approach, but i also look forward to the commission ensuring that member states live up to their obligations.
madam president, it is delusional to think that collecting more data on ordinary citizens will make europe a safer place. everybody wants european citizens to be safe, but this regulation would not have prevented the attacks that took place across europe. it will not work because the massive collection of data is not targeted. it is an infringement of the civil liberties of eu citizens and residents. it is invasive and unnecessary. the commission has not even made an impact assessment to justify the regulation before pushing it through. if europe wants to prevent terrorism, it needs better use of existing data, better cooperation between member states, police and public prosecutors, and it needs to promote conflict resolution instead of fanning foreign conflicts and wars. the european institutions should concern themselves more with the protection of citizens’ civil liberties and less with treating ordinary citizens as subjects.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his comprehensive assessment. commissioner, you mention that colleagues here can match you for technical detail. sadly, we cannot match you for speaking time, so i am only going to identify one or two of the issues that you spread over 12 to 14 minutes. ms hohlmeier mentioned the pre-lisbon instruments. let me say first of all that we must be there; this is why ms hohlmeier mentioned the pre-lisbon instruments. i want to say to mr borg: thank you to your jha council for keeping up the pressure, and we as a parliament will want to see the council face to face, because this is very much about the member states. the commissioner mentioned the prüm convention. i only have two minutes, so let me mention the prüm convention. in terms of intelligence cooperation this, as the commissioner mentioned, is the building blocks, the vehicle licensing, the dna databases. all of the things he said were correct: evaluation, implementation, ensuring that there is cooperation, and ensuring at the bottom of this that there are fundamental rights, the police directive. but in the end, if the member states are not willing to share the basic information, as we saw with the prüm convention and as we now see with continuing infringement procedures by the commission, then we don’t have the genuine sharing of intelligence and police information, and that is the problem. so, before we have any new legislation or any new avenues, we must have a proper structure in sharing of information which has all of these elements together, which takes the valuable private information of individuals to fight the crime or terrorism that invades our fundamental freedoms. this is the really important area when we see record numbers of searches on the sis database, when we see records being made on the europol searches, all of the things that the commissioner mentioned. the high level working group on interoperability is now one of the key challenges for us. i think parliament is doing its work. there are experts here. in fact, the small number of members here in the chamber now are experts, as you as you rightly identified. we are doing our work to ensure that this balance is created, but the key, as the commissioner said, is implementation and evaluation, and of course we will do our work in relation to fundamental rights. this is such an important area because as soon as there is a terrorist attack, everyone says: have we had the intelligence-sharing? we need to answer, intelligently and with practicality in this house, that we have also done our job.
madam president, i welcome the ethical development of robotics, which has the potential to transform our lives. however, i would like to issue a word of warning so that we can begin to prepare for what will inevitably be a huge amount of enforced leisure time for millions of people across the globe. when robotics do most of the work, how will we spend our time? vegetating in front of a screen in passive mode, watching poor quality tv, or engaged in life-enhancing activities that promote personal and community development, and connect us with the wider world? i would like to propose that we embrace the concept of occupational literacy now, and take steps to train ourselves and future generations through innovative life-long learning, and promote active engagement in arts and sport, so that co-existence with robotics will be harmonious and of benefit to the human race, not a curse for future generations. the idea of occupational literacy also relates to citizenship. if we are not taught the processes of government, or critical-thinking skills, we do not have the occupational literacy to effectively engage in democratic processes.
mr president, i do not wish to be a spoilsport, but may i just introduce a dose of reality to this particular debate? this project is forecast to cost eur 6.7 billion, which includes a 4.7 billion financial shortfall. that means that no one has defined where almost eur 5 billion of the costs will be found. secondly, there is no explanation from the commission as to how or why this concept will work any better than existing readily available storage systems. thirdly, there is no road map to show how national governments might be persuaded of any of the benefits, given existing global and fully international alternatives. fourthly, there is no impact assessment on national legal competences such as posting of data and spectrum issues. now everything points to the sort of debacle that even the united kingdom has had with big it projects, and i have to admit that; with the huge costs involved with all of the aspects that have not been addressed, i really do feel that giving the green light to this tomorrow is not going to be the right decision, and i ask that the rapporteur takes these points on board and asks the committee to look at it again.
mr president, for years european cohesion policy has, through the structural and investment funds, played a significant role in fostering the social, cultural and economic vibrancy of both rural and urban areas across the eu, including the uk. loss of these funds would therefore be a real blow for local economic growth in communities. in my region, greater manchester’s programmes for supporting people into work are underpinned by european money. since early 2014, its working well pilot programme has so far engaged 4 000 residents who are on employment and support alliance to help overcome their barriers to work. the initiative will run until 2020 and is reliant on gbp 12 million yet to be received from the eu to help a further 15 000 who are on out—of—work benefits or in low—paid work. brexit provokes many questions, including whether the uk government will replace eu funds lost to the regions beyond 2020. it is imperative that theresa may presents us with a long-term commitment to secure investments at a local level.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, first of all i would like to pay huge thanks to pavel telička. it has been excellent to work so closely with him again on this fantastic new aviation report, 99% of which is excellent in my opinion and has my full support. however, a serious problem arose because the committee on employment and social affairs was granted exclusive competence on the social agenda under rule 54. unbelievably their text infers that professional pilots on european airlines are employed on illegal, bogus contracts, thereby putting passengers in danger. none of their references are evidence-based and, in addition, comments regarding business models, such as ‘home base’ criteria, also have no place in this report, showing breathtaking ignorance, as 70% of flights across europe come under general aviation. aviation is the most highly regulated form of transport. it is held to the most stringent legal safety standards with contracts of both pilots and crew having to be compliant with easa eu ops and flight time limitations. therefore, these accusations are misleading, provocative and have no foundation. to make matters worse, we have been unable to amend the contribution by the employment committee. we have already made numerous references to good working conditions, high-skill jobs and training throughout the report, not least because all of us here support good jobs and good contracts of employment. to conclude, this sends out the wrong signals for this committee. to suggest it is not safe for european citizens to fly on european carriers is quite disgraceful. why should they book flights? therefore, i am not prepared to appease this ill-thought through element of the report which has been included and which we have been unable to change, but i thank [mr telička ] again for the hard work, and i know he understands this position. i hope this message has got through, commissioner, namely that we have to be very careful when we allow other committees to have so much input on certain dossiers. this was incorrect; an opinion would have been quite sufficient. thank you. this is the committee on transport and tourism, and our focus is on transport.
mr president, the continuing success of our aviation sector is very important for europeans, as travellers and also as workers. i very much welcome the excellent work done by many mep colleagues in producing our views on an overarching aviation strategy. this work has included engaging constructively with the commission’s focus on a forward-looking framework for regulation of the sector on the basis of a common european vision. making the single european sky a reality, regardless of national demarcations, would benefit all of us. i, and many others, will be doing everything we can to ensure that the uk plays a full part in this project in the years to come. on the details of this report, i believe that we as meps have a duty to promote the reduction and minimisation of environmental damage done by aviation and to encourage a shift to other, more sustainable forms of transport where appropriate. it is fair to say the report could possibly have done more in this respect, but i still think we should support it. however, it is extremely welcome that we are voting today in support of calls to protect the rights of workers throughout the sector. in contrast to what some others have said, most reasonable people in this parliament agree there is ample evidence of the problems of precarious employment in the sector for pilots, cabin crew and ground staff and we must address this together.
author. – mr president, francesca ramirez leads the council for the defence of the land, the lake and sovereignty, a peaceful resistance movement against the interoceanic mega-dam project which is going ahead unlawfully and without prior consultation with the local community. this mega-dam project would destroy the homes and livelihoods of thousands of indigenous people and small farmers, devastate fragile ecosystems across approximately 400 000 hectares of nicaraguan land and further increase the country’s debt. the seizure and damage of ms ramirez’s vehicles by the state authorities signals the government’s determination to go ahead with this damaging mega-project and its willingness to intimidate those who oppose it. this resolution condemns such intimidation and underlines the need to abandon the interoceanic dam project in order to prevent the irreversible damage it will cause. we are only sorry that we were not able to support the joint resolution because it was turned into a vehicle for general political criticism of the nicaraguan government. while we agree with many of the criticisms, we believe that this is a misuse of the human rights urgencies process of this house.
author. – mr president, we have had good joint working across this resolution. i do regret that the ecr was not able to be part of the compromise, eventually, but we did work hard to get a decent text before the house. it is right that where member states have allies and have interests, the european union is a community based on values and as a collective we can exploit and voice our values and it is right that we remain vocal within that discussion. the eu, acting as a collective, can achieve more than our individual member states – my own in particular has not entirely clean hands in this discussion – but as a collective we can be true to our values and it is right that we should speak truth to our friends. in bahrain and kuwait there is a sense that they are somehow singled out unfairly for criticism, on a regular basis. it is barely eight months since our last resolution on bahrain as well, but that is because, actually, it is a compliment. there is scope for a dialogue, there is scope for a discussion with those two countries, and there is scope for progress which we can support within those countries with our expertise. i would refer particularly to paragraph 9 of the resolution: the resolution calls on the bahraini government to fully implement the recommendations of the bahrain independent commission of inquiry. progress and reform is absolutely vital and we will continue to support that progress.
mr president, i would like to express many thanks to all those who work to raise human rights issues in this house. this is not the first time that we have spoken about the situation in bahrain, sadly, and our message must be clear. the death penalty is always wrong, and even more so when young men are tortured into confession and then executed. all of us here must be clear that muhammad ramadan and hussein moussa must not be executed, and that the death penalty must be abolished in bahrain, as elsewhere, including iran. upholding human rights and democracy makes a country stronger, not weaker. if bahrain wants to present itself as a beacon of progress in the middle east, then its government must conduct itself accordingly. instead of putting nabeel rajab through yet another hearing on 21 february, release him and all other political prisoners. all eu member states, and especially the uk, must put human rights first and insist that these rights are upheld, instead of trading in arms.
mr president, the first rule of government is to protect the people of your country, but in brussels and paris and in germany, the governments of europe and the european union failed, as innocent people were murdered by terrorists – both home-grown and those that used schengen and the open border system to infiltrate europe and kill those people. you have criticised hungary for taking its own measures. you have criticised people like myself on this side of the house, who suggested before merkel made her monumental failure of opening the doors to germany, that you should have checked the people coming in. you should have ensured that security was there, but no, you would rather call us xenophobes and racists, instead of listening to the sensible truth. but this report still does not go far enough. it is simply a sticking plaster, and until you put in proper border controls there will be more terrorism on this continent.
mr president, ahead of this vote i thought i should do some research. so a couple of weeks ago i met a robot. as science fiction hasn’t yet become science fact, i also met experts from the world-class cranfield university in my constituency. they told me how robotic technology is developing and highlighted the challenges that lie ahead. we discussed rapid changes in the workplace with more automation, safety issues as people work more closely with robots, and the ethics of self-learning robots. i have seen at first hand the speed this sector is moving, and as technology moves quickly it is important that legislation keeps up, which is why i voted in favour of today’s report.
mr president, i chose not to support the vote on aviation strategy for europe today, 16 february 2017. as part of its brexit strategy for the united kingdom, the country is pushing ahead with its own agenda for aviation with the ‘sky’s the limit’ coalition, representing airlines and airports. uk air traffic control has welcomed the publication of the uk government’s airspace and noise policy as a first step towards modernising united kingdom airspace – including, i might add, that for drones. in contrast, the european union strategy is beset with problems associated with fulfilling aspects relating to other european union policies, not least emission limitations. i could not support a strategy which would prove a drag anchor on the united kingdom’s lead in this critical area of expertise.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the white paper on the future of the european union follows the usual format that we are used to. it recognises the problems facing it, but fails to understand that many of these were created by the eu in the first place. the solution is always the same, namely for the eu to have yet more power in order to solve the problems that it created, and that always means yet more integration – political, fiscal and economic. the paper acknowledges that the current economic crisis particularly affects the younger generation. it quite rightly wants to ensure that every generation is better off than the previous one. it acknowledges that the effect on the young is particularly felt within the euro area and, in the same paragraph, it goes on to say ‘this highlights the need to complete economic and monetary union’. it defies belief that mr juncker, or anybody else, can fail to understand that the european single currency is the single biggest reason for the catastrophic levels of youth unemployment in countries like portugal, spain and greece. the austerity measures designed to keep the euro alive just make things worse. the paper does not once mention the british referendum. if mr juncker tried to understand the reasons why the british voted to leave, it might help him understand what is needed to reform the european union. sadly, i do not think he is going to do that but, happily, britain will not be part of it. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank mr juncker very much indeed for coming to the chamber this afternoon and for outlining his white paper. mr juncker, it was very nice to see you and i will regret losing you in two-and-a-half years’ time when you go into retirement. but the legacy you will leave, sir, in terms of the white paper that you have outlined this afternoon is really quite dangerous and a real delusion in terms of denial of what has happened. everything that has happened in the european union in the last few days – and last few years for that matter – has been because of lack of action: the lack of sensible action, or the lack of action full-stop. and so what you see across the european continent is the emergence of all the threats and all the issues that you have highlighted in your white paper, but there is nothing in the white paper that gives citizens across europe the opportunity to voice their discontent – via referenda, for instance – and actually highlight to you what is wrong. we all wish the european union project a future. there are 27 member states that want that to happen. there is one member state that has made the right decision to walk away. but, sir, can i just implore you to look at that white paper? you have signalled with your fifth option what your preference is, but i ask you again, for the sake of 440 million citizens, please go back to a blueprint and come up with something new, something that does not just paper over the cracks and look backwards for solutions, rather than looking forward for what is actually required.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, on economic issues businesses need regulatory certainty and economic stability if they are to grow. as the united kingdom will undoubtedly be leaving the european union in the next two years or so, and given the intensity and importance of the economic relationship between the uk and its continental neighbours, it is clearly in the interests of both the eu and the uk that the new strategic partnership, based on amicable and sensible arrangements, is agreed as quickly as possible. we start from a position of regulatory equivalence and mutual recognition of standards – maximum continuity and deep mutual market access will therefore be a great economic reassurance on both sides of the channel. in terms of internal security, it is clearly in the interests of all our nations that the opportunities for cooperation between our police, security and intelligence agencies is maximised. many of the problems that have been identified following terrorist attacks in recent years concern the workings of security agencies within states, rather than between them. bilateral and multilateral cooperation between countries has generally been good, and europol has often played a useful role in this. the united kingdom has highly effective and internationally respected security and intelligence capabilities. they have proved their value across europe and beyond, and it is very much in the interest of the eu in particular, as well as the uk, that arrangements are put in place to ensure that these operational relationships are maintained in the years ahead. on defence, while some transatlanticists here suggested eu defence ambitions are about reinforcing nato, the reality is different. the ambition is for an autonomous military capability and just at the time when the democracies need to be standing together in solidarity, when that great transatlantic security bond of nato should be revitalised, the eu is pursuing a separate agenda. this is dangerous. some have suggested that the new us administration was anti-nato and this underlined the need for some separate agenda. nothing could be further from reality and the new american president has underlined yet again his strong support for nato.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think we are all agreed that we need a joined-up system that is going to protect children and ensure that their best interests are at the heart of what we do. we know that we need to develop a system that youngsters trust and will engage with, and that protects them, informs them properly, has effective legal guardians and will cooperate across borders where necessary. we know that we need governments to step up, and indeed to step in, to help those countries under particular pressure. as the commissioner said, the offers are pretty poor at the moment and even those offers made are not always taken up. so i think we need to think seriously about how we improve that. but we do need, as others have said, a system that works in reality. it is no surprise that kids will believe smugglers’ promises to reunite them with family when we see the reality of what many of those minors currently face and the lack of information they get. we only have to look at the scandal of calais in terms of child protection: children identified there by civil society organisations, not the authorities, a supreme court judgment to remind the british government of their obligations, a totally inadequate system of cooperation and transfer between france and the uk, and still poor delivery even now. the french are closing the centres that they took unaccompanied minors to and the british government thinks it has done its job, although there are still at least 1 000 who have, potentially, the legal right to be there under dublin. so we really do need to make our system start working. i look forward to the infringement proceedings that i hope the commission will bring against member states. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the united nations refugee agency estimates that 35% of migrants entering the european union since january 2016 were children. in 2015, 85 482 unaccompanied minors applied for asylum in the eu, which was three times the 2014 figure. now it seems that thousands of these children have gone missing, their fate unknown. are we to believe these children were sent abroad unaccompanied? are we to believe that in a single year 85 000 minors made their own decision to make their way to europe entirely on their own? of course not. they were trafficked by criminal gangs, but someone had to pay the gang first and, presumably, that was their parents or families. the eu schengen area and open borders policy has helped to create an immigration and asylum racket: get the children in first and then the families can follow. the innocent victims of this racket are the children themselves.
mr president, the number of what we call unaccompanied minors has reached a record of more than 95 000 last year. those children are at serious risk of abuse, trafficking and exploitation, and they experience dramatic situations on a daily basis. it is not a question of money. it is a question of political will. we are dealing with human beings, and the most vulnerable of human beings, children. we should not be lecturing other countries about human rights whilst we let this happen on our own continent. beyond the issues of relocation and procedure we must have put in place mechanisms to support and heal children who very often experience immense suffering and trauma, often resulting in serious mental health issues. this must be done by taking into account the special needs of children with disabilities, and young women and girls, and we must also give these children access to education. it is a human right.
in writing. – the scale of disappearance of migrant children is absolutely shocking. research by missing children europe estimates that up to 50% of unaccompanied children in certain reception centres in the eu go missing. we are told by europol that there is a ‘tremendous amount of crossover’ between smugglers smuggling refugees across borders and gangs ensnaring people for forced sexual and labour exploitation. yet the issue is not confined to the country of origin. if a child is abducted in spain, they could easily travel as far as sweden or any of a dozen countries without them or their kidnappers ever being subject to a passport check. the opportunity to catch the perpetrators is lost, and the problem is incredibly difficult to tackle when we do not even know which country a criminal or victim is in. if the european union truly cares about security, it will rethink the schengen agreement, which leads to the unrestricted freedom of movement of traffickers and their victims.
madam president, equal pay for equal work is one of the european union’s founding principles and every member state is bound to ensure that the principle of equal pay for male and female workers for equal work, or work of equal value, is applied. as marian harkin said, however, actually making sure this happens is only half of the problem. the reasons behind the gender pay gap are complex. they overlap and there is no one solution to this issue, but there is absolutely no doubt at all in my mind that the gender pay gap is caused by direct discrimination: segregation in the labour market, traditional gender stereotypes and work-life balance issues. when combined, all these serve to reinforce gender inequality on a much broader scale. the impact of the pay gap extends even beyond retirement, as we have heard. the at-risk-of-poverty rate is around 22% for women over 65 – reflecting the inequality of pay. what can we do? it is time that we took real action. we must extend the right to flexible work to all jobs. we must create a more effective policy on shared parental leave, with fathers getting at least three months’ paid leave, and we must provide a mandatory scheme that includes funded training for women over the age of 40 who have done their duty in society, as they see it, to get back to work. society must take responsibility for that.
author. – madam president, firstly my thanks go to sophia in ‘t veld, a d66 mep who has helped enormously with this issue. this union of sovereign states has been clear over the years that the rights of their citizens are important and are to be protected, with the mutual recognition of qualifications, agreements on health and pension rights, and so on. like many other meps i receive heartfelt emails from citizens living in the uk and across europe. there are tens of thousands of eu citizens in the uk. they have paid their taxes, they have paid into our pension pots, and they are paying down our debts. they contribute to our society and our economy. the threats from mrs may’s government must be stopped now. no ifs, no buts. they are doctors, nurses, shopkeepers, students, teachers and others – they are not political bargaining chips. there are many examples. there’s the romanian electrician forced to resign after threats and bullying. there’s the italian beautician who has been resident for 20 years, married to a brit, but now threatened with deportation as she has no private health insurance. and the lists go on and on. they are real people, with real lives, who are worried and fearful. is that how we should be treating people we promised we would welcome? my government needs to guarantee the rights of these people immediately and stop uncertainty. we need to protect the uk that i know: open, tolerant and united. but it is for this house and its meps to speak for all european citizens. we are the ones who must fight for the rights that need to be protected. brexit negotiations will be tough, and we all know it is easier to chop away rights than to protect them. so this house demands the commission enforces eu rules and the british government must respect those rules, respect the citizens, and respect the benefit that migrants bring.
author. – madam president, before i say anything else i must put a clear question to commissioner jourová, on behalf of eu citizens. now, and once article 50 is triggered, will you, as the guardian of the treaties, take action to ensure that the free movement directive is properly applied in relation to both eu citizens in the uk and uk citizens in other eu countries? why must we ask this today? because there is compelling and growing evidence, since the brexit vote, from our constituency casework, responsible journalism and the voices of eu citizens themselves, that some eu citizens in the uk are experiencing great uncertainty about their position. there is suspicion that, far from protecting their rights in the sensitive transition period, the uk has already begun to use them as bargaining chips. we can detect this from the approximately 28% of eu citizen applicants for uk citizenship since the referendum who have had their applications rejected or declared invalid. it is well known that the procedure for some who have been living in the uk, sometimes for decades, involves having to fill in the notorious 85-page forms, which can often trigger delays and panic. i do not have time here to recount the stories of heartbreak and stifling bureaucracy but we must ask if this amounts to a uk policy or to negligence in respect of individuals and families whom we are legally obliged to protect. the european parliament will hold hearings to gather our own evidence and do our job, but the commission can act right away. the uk government has a moral, political and legal duty to protect the rights of all eu citizens, not least because they contribute to our communities and our economy. they are vital. as article 50 is triggered, hundreds of thousands of uk citizens in other eu countries will want the same equality and dignity that is afforded to eu citizens in the uk: not a negotiation, but a guarantee. the uk government must do what is right. the commission must engage and we, your meps, will represent you.
author. – madam president, i think we are all aware that the uk is not the only member state with issues regarding long-term residence and citizenship. we will discuss the others when the petitions committee brings forward their resolution. however, many eu 27 nationals do live in the uk and over a third of them live in my region of london. some of them are my neighbours. and the lack of certainty over their future is causing huge concern, just as it is for uk nationals living in other member states. you only have to read the testimonies on the ‘brexpats’ website. much of this uncertainty could certainly be removed by the british government. i think many of us will welcome tonight’s vote in the house of lords on the article 50 bill, asking the government to introduce proposals within three months of the triggering of that article, to ensure that eu citizens in the uk have the same residence rights after brexit. in the meantime, as people have said, there are people in the uk from eu countries who have lived, worked, studied and retired there. some have caring responsibilities and there i think we have an issue with the long-term residents directive. they do not want to be used as bargaining chips; they feel it is insulting and demeaning, and it is. our government could at least be clear that these people are valued and it should strongly condemn the rising racism and xenophobia we are seeing in the uk. a lot of the stress and the fear that we are seeing is also being caused by the attitude of the authorities. certainly in terms of sickness insurance we know there has been a shift in position by the british government over the last few years on the role of the nhs. we really hope that the commission will get on, please, and introduce the infringement proceedings that have been hanging for so long. i think many of us would say from the case work that we are seeing, and indeed from the excellent libe petitions survey, that when you look at this, we either have a government that is dealing with wilful incompetence or targeted administrative efforts to actually delay, restrict, diminish – all of these words crop up time after time, and we would like some certainty, please, for our citizens and yours.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, on behalf of the socialist group and especially the labour members of the socialist group, let me say that the way the british government appears to be intending to use european citizens living in the uk as pawns in the negotiation is a disgrace. the good news is that an hour ago, in the house of lords, the uk government, the conservative government, was defeated when the house of lords adopted an amendment that obliges the government, if it is confirmed by the house of commons, to settle this question as quickly as possible and in the shortest period ahead. if that is sustained, that is good news. but i fear that the conservatives will use their majority in the house of commons to overturn this amendment and go back to the status quo. it is a disgrace and we shall fight it all the way. but we must do one more thing in this parliament: we must be vigilant throughout the negotiations and look very closely at the deal that comes back, the so-called divorce deal, because if it does not respect citizens’ rights we should refer it to the court of justice to verify its compatibility with the treaties.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, britain has a long and celebrated history of immigration, a proud record of welcoming people from inside the eu and from across the world, and this will continue long after brexit. immigration has made our country stronger, richer and more tolerant. the prime minister was very clear about the value she places on the contribution of eu citizens to britain, to its economy, its society and its culture. that is why securing the status of eu nationals residing in the uk, and of uk nationals residing in the eu, is a top priority for the prime minister. any delay in reaching guarantees on this issue is a consequence of timing and procedure, not of political will. why are we not now debating how we can make freedom of movement work better? why are we not debating how we can rebuild people’s confidence in the principle? why are we not debating how we can address the concerns regarding its implementation across the whole of europe? for example, we could be addressing the concerns in germany about access to public services and benefits. we could be addressing the demographic challenges that many eu countries face. our debates do nothing to convince people that we have solutions to the challenges we face – and then we wonder why voters are turning to the fringes of our political system for answers. debates like this just fuel the scaremongers and spread fear amongst our citizens, who are already unsettled by the changing political landscape. we are missing an opportunity to strengthen our goal of a better europe, and i am afraid that political point scoring ahead of the triggering of article 50 will only weaken this house and its credibility. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the conservative party has always been the conservative and unionist party. the conservatives believe completely in northern ireland and in supporting the northern irish citizens of great britain. we are committed to ensuring that all parts of the country, northern ireland, scotland, wales and england, remain as a union and together solve the problems that are inevitable in this brexit process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – you say that this debate sends a signal – an unhelpful one, according to you. surely the government sends a much stronger signal than we ever could in this house? is the fact that the government is refusing now to acknowledge, and to protect, the rights of the three million citizens who live in our country not damaging our economy and damaging our public services – because we are sending a signal to these people that we do not want them? that is not british.
blue-card answer. – were it true, it would not be british, and i would agree with you, but it is not true and you are doing our prime minister a great disservice if you think that she does not want to confirm the status of eu nationals residing in the uk. she has made that very clear, but she has also made clear that we want to protect the rights of uk nationals in the other european countries, and those two things go hand-in-hand. if it were down to our prime minister alone, it would already have been sold. it is not britain that is holding this up. it is other member states that will not discuss this and will not agree it at this point.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, at a time when the people of europe are calling for reductions in immigration and for stricter border controls, here you are going on and on, again. while you elitists may not want to accept it, the brexit vote made a decision: the british people decide who comes to our country and who stays there. as for residence rights, the eu is scaremongering, as are all of you, and treating british expats and eu citizens as bargaining chips. it is an absolute disgrace and it is one more reason why we are glad to be out and why we are confident that we have made the correct decision. may you all suffer for what you are doing to those people. (the speaker did not agree to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8) by anneliese dodd)
on behalf of the enf group. – madam president, i am certainly not in favour of the eu, or the uk, using british citizens as a bargaining chip; it is quite disgraceful. mrs merkel and others could actually state very clearly now that they are not using people as bargaining chips, but they are choosing not to do so. what you do not recognise in this place is that the majority of british people said by vote that they are taking back control of their borders. as lord tebbit, my hero, said in the house of lords this evening: we will be putting british citizens first. he is back. yes, the lords did make a decision this evening, but guess what? our home secretary has at least grown a pair of balls recently and is going to rescind it. they are going to overturn it because the british voted for brexit. yes, ms spinelli, we are going to have the brightest and best from around the world, from china, from india, and we are going to choose who come to our borders. not you, labour, you are out for another 20 years, out for a generation, and thank god for that. roll on, mrs may.
madam president, i wanted to draw attention to the case of homeless european migrants who found themselves destitute and sleeping rough. in my constituency in north-west manchester the booth centre is committed to helping rough sleepers to move off the streets and into stable homes. it is working in close partnership with many organisations, including local authorities, and they are very concerned about the recent increase in british home office activity around european migrants who are sleeping rough and at risk of mental health problems. this attack on rough sleeping has coincided with the brexit campaign where european migrants have been stigmatised and hate crime has increased in my country. the booth centre is actually fully committed to the voluntary assisted reconnection of destitute european migrants and in the last 12 months has organised the return of 141 people. they work with the individual to ensure that they have got a place to stay on their return and are linked to family, medical and social services. but the home office is at the moment riding roughshod over this and not working properly with the voluntary organisations that put these people’s well-being at the core of their work.
madam president, outside the famous british old bailey courtroom stands the statue of lady justice, a stark reminder that justice is for all. that principle goes back at least to roman times, to the roman goddess justitia. since the 16th century, lady justice has often been depicted wearing a blindfold, that shows that justice, true justice, is blind to wealth, power or other status, and in today’s society we might well add gender, amongst other characteristics. i do not think it is in any way a stretch to suggest that the same principles should apply to the appointment of judges. equality of opportunity should exist for all. i do not care whether a judge is a woman or a man, black or white, rich or poor, straight or gay, religious or atheist. i only care for the job that they do. appointments of judges must depend solely on their ability to apply the law diligently, without fear or favour. equality of outcome is not, for these reasons, a valid target.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the explanatory statement for this proposal says its objectives are secure, affordable and sustainable energy. yet for many years the eu has followed policies which have exactly the opposite effect. germany, with the largest renewables investment, now uses increasing volumes of lignite. in the uk we are planning to use diesel generation as back-up. the highly respected economist magazine currently runs a front—page story entitled ‘clean energy’s dirty secret’. i recommend it to colleagues. it says we have created regulatory and subsidy structures that militate against energy infrastructure investment and threaten security of supply. i quote: ‘green energy is eating its own tail’. yet this proposal today amounts to little more than bureaucratic paper pushing. the explanatory statement concludes by saying the eu is torn apart by migratory and eurozone crises and desperately needs a success. indeed it does, but this report will not deliver that success.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, the creative europe programme addresses two of the most fundamental issues that we face today. one is: what are the future jobs going to be? the other is: how in this divisive time do we bring people and communities together? when we look at the possibilities that the digital world of the 21st century will provide for skilled employment, the cultural sector is often rightly cited as the source of jobs long into the future. the new financial instrument aimed at smes only deepens the importance of this programme in supporting the growth of this sector. beyond the imperatives of growth, there is the separate work of bringing people together. in particular, this programme has now taken on the responsibility of supporting social inclusion for refugees. ms costa’s excellent report highlights the strength of this work, but also importantly points to what can be done to improve its delivery. we must ensure it has the resources to fulfil its important role in our society.
mr president, i would like to talk about this in the context of brexit. the uk receives more funding than almost any other country through the creative europe programme. bringing together culture and media programmes is an important part of our membership of the european union. although in financial terms it is tiny, this is an area where we actually gain more than we put in. one of the initiatives in this field is the european capital of culture. truro, a city in my own region in the south-west has announced a bid to be the city of culture in 2023. i understand that the uk government has been positive about cities making their bids and i understand also that, at this moment, the commission is sticking to its announcement that there will be two capitals in 2023, one from hungary and one from the uk. that may change – who knows? – and it may well all become a sidebar in the big negotiation, but the advice for now is to carry on bidding. the uk is still a full and active member of the eu. having visited other european capitals of culture, most recently san sebastián in spain, i have seen at first hand the benefits such a successful bid can bring. however, i would add a note of caution as i would not want to see cornwall, an area not known for being well off, overspend on a project which is inevitably something of a gamble.
mr president, juggling, hula-hooping and spinning plates is not something i would normally do as an mep, but last week i swapped debating in this chamber for trying out circus skills. i was in great yarmouth, in my constituency, to visit sea change arts. their director told me how the eu projects that they have taken part in have been transformational, in terms of both the money they received and the relationships built. they are now one of the leading international organisations for street arts and circus. i know some of my political opponents get into a spin about eu projects, but i can see the true legacy of britain’s membership of the eu in events like great yarmouth’s popular out there festival. eu policy has played a significant role in creating and nurturing a vibrant cultural and creative sector across europe. long may it continue.
mr president, creativity and collaboration across borders are even more important in these days of extreme nationalism and xenophobia. the arts and culture touch us all as human beings, providing a unique and powerful means to change hearts and minds, to promote self-confidence and community cohesion, and to help people live together as good neighbours in an increasingly complex and frightening world. the great city of liverpool in my northwest england constituency, a diverse city built on migrant labour by the way, was saved from obscurity through its designation as a capital of culture in 2008, delivering a world-class programme with a lasting legacy, contributing to the local tourism economy and its wealth of entrepreneurs. i can tell you, as somebody who worked in the arts before politics, that the creative europe programme, including in its previous incarnation, has been and still is of great interest to british artists and arts organisations, and that the tragedy of brexit was not the choice of the people of liverpool nor the wish of the wider arts and media community or their audiences across the whole of the uk, who voted overwhelmingly to stay in the eu and work together with their neighbours.
mr president, let me start with some common ground. clearly, if your project for european integration is to recover – mercifully, without the united kingdom – it will require an enhanced level of social solidarity between the peoples of europe. so it is not surprising that integrationists should set such store by top—down projects designed to tell the citizens of europe’s nation states that their prime collective identity should be a continental one rather than a national one. when, for example, german citizens are next told that greek citizens need another euro bailout, federalists will wish their first reaction to be, ‘yes, we europeans must stand together’ and not ‘why should more german money go to greece?’ but i am afraid that you might as well push water uphill as try to indoctrinate people about the collective loyalties that they feel. in no other continent on earth are so many distinct cultures, countries and languages held in such close proximity. that is what makes europe the most interesting continent. people like mr verhofstadt think europe is a continent of dwarves that cannot compete in the modern world and that we need to bring every aspect of public policy under the eu umbrella. but there is a better way forward and that is to be less doctrinaire and less rigid, to get behind nato as our key defensive alliance, to allow nation states to return to national currencies that reflect their economic conditions, to trust that the peoples of a democratic europe will be too sensible to return to the days of ultra-nationalism that caused the shedding of so much blood. but to try and force a european identity through top—down programmes such as europe for citizens is self—defeating. you are wasting your time and you are also wasting our money.
mr president, europe is the sum total of its citizens and that includes the millions of british citizens living, working and travelling within and beyond the european union, particularly young people broadening their minds, encountering the other, learning life skills. in fact, learning how to be good, responsible citizens in the 21st century, both at home and abroad. the young people who could vote in last year’s british referendum overwhelmingly voted to remain in the eu. however, teresa may’s continued direction towards a hard and damaging brexit threatens to rob future generations of many wonderful, life-enhancing, character building and community minded opportunities that benefit not just themselves but the places in which they live.
rapporteur. – mr president, the scale of recent trade flows in illegal wildlife and wildlife products is unprecedented, with recent data showing a sharp decline in the number of some species, many of them facing extinction. this presents a serious threat to our environment and may have a permanent consequence on our biodiversity. we must also concern ourselves with the impact illegal wildlife trade has on the global economy, good governance and the wider connections with other criminal activities. it was with these considerations in mind that i proposed to the committee on international trade (inta) to draft an own-initiative report on the eu common commercial policy in the context of wildlife sustainability, because trade policy can, and should, address wildlife conservation, support sustainable development and environmental protection. my report looks at the challenges we face and gives practical solutions on effective use of the resources available, with better implementation of our current policies giving tangible and comprehensive recommendations to the commission on how trade and environmental policies can work together to tackle illegal wildlife trade inside the eu and globally. however, the report strongly recommends that we do not overburden the existing framework with the creation of new rules and mechanisms. instead, the priority should be the implementation of the present framework in the context of the global trade and environmental regimes, such as the wto, cites, the wco, the undp and the oecd. we must also seek further and deeper cooperation with the private sector and non-governmental organisations, ensuring that all stakeholders involved have a say and contribute to the fight against illegal wildlife trade. initiatives such as the united for wildlife transport taskforce should be widely promoted, as they draw upon the linkages between e-commerce, transportation and distribution to establish well-rounded and integrated approaches addressing both supply and demand, as well as focusing on breaking chains to tackle illegal trade in wildlife and wildlife products. sharing data and knowledge is imperative and this report stresses that there is still work to do at this level, both within the eu and with partner countries. customs procedures must be assessed, and emphasis and resources should be put on strengthening compliance and law enforcement at national and regional levels. the eu must step up its efforts in the provision of training, information and capacity building, full customs in developing countries, and promote transparency and good governance. to tackle illegal wildlife crime we must also tackle its enablers. corruption is one of the main facilitators of this activity. this report strongly encourages the eu and member states to increase their vigilance, to reinforce cross-border measures to identify and prevent money-laundering associated with wildlife trafficking. my report supports the inclusion of anti-corruption provisions in future trade agreements. and as part of the eu’s ongoing commitment to sustainable development, our trade policy must strive for solid and detailed sustainable development chapters in its future trade agreements, similar to the one included in the eu-vietnam fta. it is imperative that we lead on the negotiation and implementation of higher standards covering trade in wildlife in the eu and globally. trade policy is an important tool at our disposal and we must make the best use of it to fight this crime, and to protect and promote wildlife and our natural resources. if we do nothing, they will be extinct. finally, i would like to thank my adviser alex boyd for his advice and support, and colleagues in inta for their support and hard work on this file, proving that we are all committed to the fight against illegal wildlife crime and that we want to keep this fight a priority so that future generations to come will enjoy the magnificence of our precious wildlife.
mr president, my thanks go to emma mcclarkin for her well-reasoned and clear report with recommendations to protect wildlife in current and future eu trade agreements. my thanks to the commission for the proposals to ban, in the eu, raw ivory exports. tomorrow is world wildlife day, so let’s celebrate this year’s progress in protecting wildlife against trafficking: china’s full ban and the near ban in the usa, stricter rules in france on hunting trophies and the burning of ivory by the kenyan government. however, this is just tackling illegal trade. the mcclarkin report also tackles legal trade and, of course, we know the crossover is mostly complicated as plants, animals, birds, etc. move between the two: legal or illegal. the convention on the international trade in endangered species (cites) cop recently delivered tough new rules and more protection for over 500 species, but more needs to be done. member states, politicians and the public have the power to protect and reduce demand. this report is a good step along the road, so thank you emma.
mr president, under rule 181a and rule 49 in relation to the committee on legal affairs, i would like to raise the very urgent case of alexander adamescu, a german citizen living in london, who is subject to a political european arrest warrant issued by the romanian government and the romanian police. mr adamescu’s father had already been arrested on the same charge and he died in prison. his wife has had an attempt to remove her illegally from the united kingdom by gangsters, and what we have to face is the european arrest warrant being used here by a country as a member of the european union, for political purposes. i urge you to raise this at the highest level with the president and the committee under these rules.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am pleased to speak tonight in favour of the agreement reached between the european parliament and the slovak presidency in december. this deal will help to close the gap between international efforts under the un minamata convention and efforts at the eu level. the updated regulation will also allow the eu to give consent to ratification of the minamata convention, which was signed in 2013. this was not an easy negotiation, but on balance the compromise reached is a good outcome. although mercury use has declined significantly in recent years, releases into the air, water and land can still be a threat. this agreement will help improve protection of human health and the environment from exposure to mercury. there are updated provisions regarding the scope of exports and imports and the storage of mercury waste. mercury use will also be banned in artisanal and small—scale gold mining, whilst the compromise reached on the phasing-out of mercury in dental usage is welcome. there is a ban on the use of amalgam for children under 15 and pregnant and breastfeeding women from 2018. member states will have to adopt national action plans on the phase-down of mercury in dentistry and the commission will study the feasibility of a complete phase-out in the long term, preferably by 2030. this gradual approach is important. i am a firm proponent of decision-making on the basis of scientific evidence. dental amalgam is safe, effective and durable. the who supports a phase-down, recognising the need for further research and improved prevention. i therefore ask members to join with me and vote against amendments tabled by the rapporteur and the efdd group. this attempt to undermine a carefully-negotiated trilogue agreement must be defeated.
mr president, the scientific evidence surrounding the toxicity of mercury is well known and has been of concern for many years. as with other heavy metals, mercury poisoning is insidious, not least because exposure to this substance leads to a cumulative build-up within all creatures. as we have already heard this evening, this element is responsible for many adverse effects in human and animal health, as it affects the nervous, digestive and immune systems as well as the lungs, kidney and skin and eyes. for this reason ukip agree with the scope of the minamata convention that urges countries to better manage the supply, trade and use of mercury in order to manage the health impacts of mercury exposure. we also share the objective of protecting human health and global environment from the release of mercury and its compounds by diminishing and controlling human-induced releases to air, water and land. we do recognise the sensitivity of this issue. however, we believe it should be legislated for on a national basis.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. colleagues, in my country the average ceo earns in three days what the average worker will earn in a year. ceos’ pay has almost doubled over the last 10 years, while real pay for the average worker has stagnated. dealing with this excessive remuneration is not anti-business. a survey of members of the institute of directors showed smes felt high pay in some big businesses was harming the reputation of all businesses. so it is great that this directive takes action to improve pay transparency, as well as improving many other areas of corporate governance. brexit cannot be used as an excuse for progress on this issue to be rolled back, particularly in britain. the eu’s cap on bankers’ bonuses was challenged by the british government but largely supported by the british people, just as they support action to make ceo pay more accountable. the message this directive sends must be heeded across the eu and in britain, including after brexit. congratulations again to the rapporteur.
mr president, theresa may has made great theatre of her political will to restrain corporate excess, but so far we have seen little action. as research suggests that more than a third of big companies fail to comply with the uk’s currently voluntary code, she might do well to look to europe for a progressive blueprint. this legislation improves the long-term commitment of shareholders in listed companies and strengthens the link between directors’ pay and performance, showing the eu’s progress towards a more transparent and responsible economy. shareholders will have a say on directors’ pay. details of how their pay has increased will be published so that it can be compared with the pay of employees and the company’s performance, something that last year’s whitehall proposals tiptoed around. disappointingly, public country-by-country reporting was dropped from the final legislation despite support from the parliament and commission. as greens we will push hard to ensure that this most important weapon in our ongoing battle against corporate tax avoidance is advanced as rapidly as possible.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the other rapporteurs for their cooperation and support in writing this document. i am proud to be presenting a report here in the plenary, following international women’s day, on such an important topic and i appreciate the presence of commissioner jourová to address – and i hope follow up on – the recommendation the parliament makes this week. it should be a source of great pride to the eu that equality between women and men has been enshrined as a fundamental value of the union since its very beginning. i do a lot of meetings and communications in my region and, when i talk about the support the eu provides to women, it generates an overwhelmingly positive response. there are 15 directives supporting gender equality and it is explicitly the subject of different aspects of the budget. however, we are still a long way from achieving the goal of gender equality. indeed, if it was all sorted, there would not be a need for this report at all, and i look forward to the day when that is the case. but, in many ways and for many reasons, i fear we are in danger of slipping backwards: that gender-related issues have fallen down the political agenda and, when they are considered, a certain amount of complacency has taken hold. the report looks in detail at three specific areas: european structural and investment funds; the rights, equality and citizenship programme; and horizon 2020. the structural and investment funds provide vital support, particularly for enabling women to work and on promoting gender equality, for example through supporting social infrastructure or women entrepreneurs. but there is not an overall strategy to make sure that there is systematic support to women in these programmes. the rights, equality and citizenship programme includes some very important areas of funding, and this support goes directly to organisations that are working in communities and have the reach and expertise to make a difference. a good example of this is the daphne programme for combating violence against women. however, this programme also demonstrates the creeping decline in support and focus on equality. it has seen a fall in its annual funding since 2011, despite the heavy demands for this work. the horizon 2020 framework programme in many ways shows the good work taking note of gender issues can achieve. it includes gender mainstreaming and provides specific support in the research process, in gender equality plans and in research content. however, these efforts need to be consistently supported by specific budget lines. in addition to these specific areas, the report looks at the budget more widely, including more recently-established work. for example, the asylum, migration and integration fund included gender mainstreaming in its founding principles. there are very real and particular issues for women and girls in these situations, and the essential support we provide must recognise those. overall, i have highlighted where there has been success, but where gender mainstreaming has been – or should be – adopted has also been underlined. for us to truly make progress on ending gender inequality we must move away from assuming support for women should be siloed in particular programmes and recognise the need to focus on the impact of all eu funds.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the blue card. i was formerly an efdd member, i now sit as an independent, but i do take issue with your accusation against mr farage. can i just ask you what you feel about a political party whose membership in terms of women has probably got the highest representation from a particular country and probably represents the best in terms of women’s political future? how does that stand in terms of the accusations you made?
mr president, equal treatment in the eyes of the law is a fundamental principle in a liberal democracy. no one should be discriminated against for their gender, their age, their race, their sexual preference or even their physical ability. but neither should people face positive discrimination and be placed ahead of others to satisfy quotas. this is just as unjust as other forms of discrimination. the united kingdom has led the way in a whole series of areas. it gave women the right to vote in 1928 and via other acts of parliament it has guaranteed rights to equal pay, equal access to jobs for genders and for all sorts of cultural and societal reasons. we were even one of the first countries to elect a female prime minister, and we have also now got a second one. the united kingdom has got a long history of enshrining equality in law. nevertheless, there is work in progress. we recognise that. we understand, we appreciate that in some areas scandinavian member states are ahead of us, and yet in many areas the united kingdom stands heads and shoulders above other member states. simply put, the united kingdom expects and requires that women, and other issues relating to this topic, around the world should receive equal treatment and equal opportunities and that discrimination should be made an element of the past. these are challenges best delivered and best addressed by national, sovereign parliaments. if we take away that role, if we take away that control, all you do is sow the seeds of discord, disillusionment and division.
mr president, over the last week or so, what with international women’s day and the rather odious comments from a rather odious colleague, the issue of gender equality has been very prominent. on the one hand, this is incredibly encouraging as it demonstrates the broad recognition that inequality is unacceptable in this day and age. but on the other hand, it is also a little bit sad, as despite the overwhelming consensus that there is absolutely no reason why women should be treated differently or be more restricted in their life choices than men, women are still battling to put an end to unjustifiable forms of gender discrimination. this i find quite exasperating. of course, putting an end to gender inequality is not easy. it is a sad truth that such inequality is so deeply embedded in our society that it has become a form of socialisation that many are simply unaware of. choices made in education and decisions taken with regard to work-life balance are all, to an extent, influenced by some form of gender stereotyping which can lock women into situations or careers where they are at an unfair disadvantage to men. from society, women and girls need positive role models to help them see beyond such entrenched stereotypes. from member state governments, they need a level playing field that allows them the chance to pursue careers and shine, based on merit alone. the increased willingness and growing urgency of action opens the door for change. however, unless this willingness translates into meaningful action there is absolutely no guarantee that gender inequality will be fully resolved. it is member state governments that will make this happen most quickly and most appropriately. it is therefore vital that we as policymakers use this momentum to pin gender equality at the top of all our governments’ to-do lists.
mr president, in the report regarding eu funds for gender equality there is a call for more eu funding. whilst i fully support tackling violence against women and discrimination, and agree that member states should do more, an increase in the eu budget is utterly against ukip principles. taxpayers’ money should not be spent by unaccountable eu bureaucrats. another report reviewing equal treatment in the access to, and supply of, goods and services welcomes the ecj test achats ruling. this removed article 5(2), which meant that insurance premiums could not be calculated differently between men and women. i find it extremely hypocritical that the eu wants gender quotas in boardrooms, but that you are more than happy to take away one of the few advantages that women could have had and that was justifiable so long as it was proven by credible data. what was once a transparent way of calculating premiums has now led to insurance companies finding hidden alternatives, for example, basing premiums on employment sectors which have a higher percentage of males and females. the final report on gender equality calls for gender quotas on boards of listed companies and encourages member states to dissolve companies that do not tick those boxes. it goes on to call for gender quotas for elections and in the explanatory statement it talks about the division of household responsibilities. how couples choose to divide household chores between them in the privacy of their own home is not an area for the eu to dictate. i would just like to remind everyone that the united kingdom passed the equal pay act in 1970, pre-dating our entry into the european union in 1973. the uk does not need to rely on the eu for women’s rights. we will continue to fight for equal treatment long after we have gone.
mr president, i would like to thank clare moody, ernest urtasun and the other colleagues, both men and women, who are here working together to progress women’s rights and gender equality, not just in europe but globally. i thought we had won this battle – that i and my feminist brothers and sisters could take a rest from our worker as activists. but we are living through a watershed moment in the history in the struggle for women’s rights. sadly, anti-gender, misogynists, conservative and nationalist parties are trying to roll back the achievements of generations of feminists and take away our hard-won rights. women’s rights are human rights. we must therefore use this as a rallying cry to mobilise a new generation of feminists to stand up for what is right, and i mean old feminists and young feminists, women feminists and men feminists. together with all those fighting for equality and social justice, we bring together a powerful intersectional movement against sexism, homophobia, xenophobia, racism and nationalism, and we can build a more tolerant and a more compassionate world.
rapporteur. – mr president, this has been a very interesting debate. it is notable that each of the rapporteurs and many of the speakers have pointed out that we are at best stagnating on equality between women and men and, in many ways, we are going backwards. we should, of course, celebrate the ongoing achievements of the eu in support of women. indeed, frequently, it is only eu funds that ensure that support. but we must move away from assuming that simply having specific programmes aimed means ‘job done’ and that somehow that alone delivers equality. it won’t! i welcome the commissioner’s recognition that this report is timely in relation to discussions on the eu budget, and that we should use all means available. the budget must be seen as part of those ‘all means’. if we are to make progress, we have to adopt gender mainstreaming across the whole budget, using the many gender budgeting tools that have been proven to work. unless we recognise the hidden and unintended consequences of the way the budget is used, we will always fail to address our goal of defeating inequality. thank you for all the support that has been expressed for this report. i look forward to the vote tomorrow, but even more, i look forward to the action to follow-up on the report’s recommendations.
rapporteur. – mr president, throughout european history the bond between equidae and humankind has occupied a very unique position within our societies. as many of you know, equidae have and still do play a vital role in many eu member states. sometimes this is out of necessity, as forms of transportation and agricultural assistance, but other newer roles have also emerged such as in research, therapy and rehabilitation. for example, in bristol, in my constituency in the uk, spiritus equis offers equine-assisted therapy to help young people with substance misuse and offending behaviour. equidae – horses in particular – are also prominent in the betting and sporting world, and for many owners, myself included, equidae are kept for leisure and more recreational purposes. through such versatility, equidae have come to possess vast economic potential. today the equine sector adds over eur 100 billion to the eu’s economy each year and is a leading rural employer in many eu member states. however, despite the varied roles, close relationship and at times dependency we share with these animals, in too many cases equidae are faced with a number of severe welfare concerns that serve to adversely impact the entire sector. such concerns include neglect, overwork and inappropriate living conditions. these problems can be found across the breadth of the equid sector and occur due to a multitude of reasons: ignorance, lack of education, over-breeding and economic hardship. europe’s citizens want to see more action on animal welfare. with this report i believe that we have a golden opportunity to not only substantially improve the lives of the seven million equidae currently living within the eu, but also by better caring for these animals we have a chance to unlock the full economic potential of this sector and provide a much-needed boost to the rural economy. it is a win-win for all involved. i would like to emphasise at this point that this report does not intend to call for additional legislation but rather to improve existing provisions, particularly their enforcement. in fact, equidae are broadly covered by a number of legislative acts pertaining to their health and welfare, and whilst better implementation and enforcement of existing law would help remedy some of these problems, it is not clear within the scope of the existing treaties where added european legislation could, or should, add value. rather, i firmly believe – and this is a belief that fundamentally shapes the nature of this report – that value can be added by tackling ignorance and by encouraging and facilitating the spread of best practice and good guidance. this will provide both commercial and recreational equidae owners with the tools and knowledge to better meet the needs of their animals. for example, knowledge transfer schemes as we see in ireland are one tool member states could utilise to share best practices, as well as business models and to foster innovation and new ideas. this is especially important in light of the added emphasis on the need – and, in fact, urgency – to become more environmentally-friendly, a development that the equid sector is not immune to. such schemes could therefore safeguard the welfare needs of equidae while, at the same time, ensure businesses are viable and are able to adapt to changes in regulation elsewhere. the development of animal welfare indicators will provide the guidance needed to make compliance and consistent enforcement more achievable. an increased number of educational resources will tackle ignorance and thereby correct the current lack of understanding surrounding the care and ownership of equidae. the establishment of animal welfare reference centres will provide a much-needed avenue for the dissemination of guidance. a recommitment from the commission to the development of a european charter for sustainable and responsible tourism would also be hugely beneficial. tourists would be empowered to make choices, which will not only reward those enterprises which properly care for their equidae but will also inform and provide peace of mind. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow for all their support and constructive contributions and to thank eurogroup for animals who have been a valuable source of information throughout the process.
mr president, so the radical house of lords amendments were voted down today by the westminster brexiteers, and the brexit wreck-it gang tell us to get over it: that it is the best thing since sliced bread! yet i have not met one business person, one young person, one farmer, one man, woman or child who has said to me, rubbing their hands in glee, ‘god, this divorce from the eu is going to be very good!’ but ireland is told: ‘get over it. do not worry about it. it is going to be a frictionless border’ – whatever the hell that means, nobody knows. and let me put the record straight to everybody here: no border, hard or soft, will be accepted by the people of ireland. what british armoured cars and tanks and guns could not do in ireland, 27 member states will not be able to do. so theresa, your notion of a border, hard or soft, stick it where the sun does not shine, because you are not putting it in ireland!
i am looking at the image of a destroyed home in nusaybin in turkish kurdistan. this house belongs to the mother of a kurdish university student now resident in my manchester constituency. the house was recently destroyed for the second time by the turkish state, along with the homes of seven other relatives all destroyed first in 1989 and again in 2017. many people have lost their lives as well as their homes, killed by the turkish military. the kurdish issue has not been settled in turkey and never will be whilst erdogan’s fascist dictatorship continues to wage war against its own people, arresting and jailing thousands of educators, artists, trade unionists, journalists, civil society activists, public officials and democratically elected hdp politicians. last month, i joined an eu-turkey civic commission international delegation, with amongst other things, the purpose of visiting abdullah öcalan, the kurdish leader imprisoned in appalling conditions on i̇mralı island since 1999 … (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – mr president, there has been a common european gun law for over 25 years. it sets out the processes whereby member states give authorisations to individuals to own, buy and sell firearms. however, certain poorly deactivated ‘salute and acoustic’ firearms were able to be bought and sold without authorisation, and some of these were re-converted and used in the tragic paris attacks. a cache of similar firearms was discovered in the uk. the european law does need reviewing. the first set of proposed amendments from the commission was very poorly drafted. it would have put disproportionate restrictions on many legal owners, it was not supported by an impact assessment, and the proposals had many technical failings. but, over the past 18 months, i have worked with colleagues across this parliament and many different stakeholders, as well as law enforcement authorities, proof houses and legal experts, in order to protect the interests of legitimate owners whilst also addressing the security issues. there have been some misleading reports in the press and i would like to set the record straight here. in reality, the parliament text that we are voting on today contains many significant improvements. firstly, firearms will not be restricted on the basis of their cosmetic appearance: this is legally unworkable. military reservists, museums, filmmakers and collectors will be able to continue their ownership, provided their member state agrees. member states will continue to organise and protect their own national security, national reserve and public defence services. this meets the needs of countries like finland and respects the situation in switzerland. technical issues with deactivation standards have been reassessed and holders of genuinely deactivated firearms, such as re-enactors, will be able to continue their ownership. the controversial proposal for mandatory medical and psychological tests has been rejected and, instead, each country will have in place its own system for assessments. there are provisions to support younger owners and for those in rural areas. there are new measures for clearer marking, for better information sharing between member states and for safe storage, but we have taken care not to put overly burdensome requirements on small traders or on historical items. there are new stricter controls on certain semi-automatic firearms when they are fitted with high-capacity magazines, and on automatic firearms that are being converted into semi-automatics. however – and this is important – individuals who legally own these today will be able to continue to do so, provided their own member state agrees. target shooters will also be able to own these and continue to practice and participate in their sport, again provided their own member state agrees. there are new provisions on magazines, which go beyond what parliament’s committee initially proposed, however the representatives from europe’s 28 member states insisted that they should be covered. today, there are some additional amendments tabled by colleagues. these are not new: they have largely been considered by parliament already and rejected by the member states and the council. if they are adopted, it could risk destabilising the entire agreement. this negotiation has been a long and difficult process. it is unfortunate that the original proposal came with so many failings from the commission, but the changes that we have now agreed will close the loopholes and make an important contribution to our security, whilst also respecting the rights of legal owners. i expect member states to use their new powers to support those legal owners and thus avoid disproportionate restrictions. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their help on this work.
blue-card question. – you have received many emails from legal owners – from hunters, from target shooters – who are concerned because they think that they are going to lose their guns. this because you have written to tell them that europe is going to take away their guns, but, if you read what we are voting on, you will see that every legal owner can continue to own their guns provided that their member states agree. you, and others, are misleading the public about their rights. they will continue to have their rights, provided that their member states agree. my question is: have you read what you are voting on?
blue-card question. – in your speech you have just said that there is going to be an impact on hunters, sport shooters and collectors, but, under the text we are voting on, hunters will be able to continue hunting and collectors will be able to continue collecting. there needs to be strong protection for security. so my question is: have you read what we are voting on today?
rapporteur. – mr president, let us remember that there was a fundamental flaw in european law. semi-automatic firearms with a pin through the barrel were able to be bought and sold without permission. the pins were taken out of the barrel and the guns were used to kill people in paris. over 30 of the same guns were found in the united kingdom. the law needed to be changed. some people have suggested that this law will take away freedoms for legal owners: this is not true. hunters, collectors, museums, re-enactors, reservists and target shooters will be able to carry on with their sports and hobbies, both now and in the future, provided their member states agree. that is thanks to the work of this parliament. we live at a time of fake news. stop telling people half truths about what this report does. this report addresses fundamental issues to protect our security, especially about those poorly deactivated firearms. it makes it easier for countries across europe to work together against terrorism but it also respects the rights of legal owners to get on with their hobbies, their pastimes and their sports – and i would like to thank all those legal owners who have helped us with this work. thank you, colleagues. i hope the report is passed and thank you for your support.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, although i sympathise with the ideology behind the aims of creating a circular economy, i believe that we should be circumspect, bearing in mind what is happening globally. we are told that an eu circular economy is an efficient economic model that ensures that the environment receives adequate protection, at the same time as promoting reindustrialisation and competitiveness in europe. however, i am yet to be convinced. as always, such ambitious eu policies need to be backed by a clear legislative framework. however, such legislation will not be binding on our competitors in china, india or the united states. in conclusion, we, in ukip, believe that such legislation should be made by national governments so that they can put forward policies that are best for their country and their people.
mr president, negotiating multiple legislative proposals at the same time, particularly when they have been withdrawn and rewritten, is no easy task. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms bonafè, and her team of shadows, on their work. of course, we support the circular economy principles, but my delegation will be voting in favour of this report. we do not think it is a perfect compromise and we should take care to ensure that we do not, unwittingly, take steps backwards by imposing overly ambitious mandatory targets. i have concerns on two areas. firstly, on the levels of the waste targets, i will be supporting a return to the commission targets. secondly, on extended producer responsibility (epr), i have tabled an amendment to delete article 8a. epr has an important role to play in improving environmental delivery, but the proposal to include minimum operating conditions is too prescriptive. we should encourage the adoption of more, and better, schemes but allow flexibility in their design across member states. with the establishment of targets in the ‘producer pays’ principle affirmed, i believe that it is not necessary to apply such a rigid approach in setting requirements for member states’ epr schemes.
blue-card question. – mr. ciocca, i read the report, and it is a weighty report. did you find anything in that report that did not increase taxes, that did not increase the cost of regulation, and that did not increase the number of european bodies across europe? did you not find that, in fact, there was more waste and more regulation? can you confirm that? that is what i read. is that what you read as well?
mr president, i must also thank the rapporteur, simona bonafè, for her hard work on this deeply significant file. in my work as a shadow rapporteur on the packaging and packaging waste directive, i had two objectives: a binding target on marine waste and a minimum level of recycled plastic in new packaging. i am glad that these ambitions have played a role in the development of this report. the package recognises the scale of action that is needed to meet the joint challenges of achieving our climate change commitments, conserving our resources, and also beginning to address the disastrous levels of plastics in our environment, particularly in our rivers, seas and oceans. i look forward to voting for this package, but even more to the work that must follow to deliver real change in our society.
mr president, i have a point of order. i rise under rule 11(3). last year the conference of presidents appointed mr guy verhofstadt as the european parliament’s brexit negotiator, but mr verhofstadt has in addition four outside jobs. that’s four. three of these jobs pay up to eur 5 000 per month and one of them pays more than eur 10 000 per month. as we all know, mr verhofstadt is of course a man of integrity, a man of honour and a man of probity. but how, therefore, can a man of mr verhofstadt’s integrity in good conscience carry out and fulfil all his responsibilities in his four outside jobs and be the european parliament’s brexit negotiator? i would ask that this appointment be reconsidered.
rapporteur. – mr president, as i understand it, this is a request to vote on the amendments before we vote on the substantive vote, and i am aware of the amendments that have been tabled by colleagues for today’s votes. the issues they raise are not new. these amendments are the same as those that have been debated in committee, discussed with the council and ultimately rejected by the member states, and there is no reason to believe that the member states have changed their minds. if we adopt these amendments, we will destabilise the entire agreement. it will overturn the first reading position that this parliament has fought for, and the hard work that we have done to secure practical solutions to allow sport shooters, hunters, collectors, reservists and other legal owners to continue with their sports. if these amendments go through, it will move into a second reading, where, under the process of this parliament, parliament has far less say, and the voice of legal owners will therefore not be heard. if you vote through those amendments, we lose all the hard work that has been done and the success that parliament has had in improving the text. the commission’s original proposal was not acceptable, but that is not what we are voting on today. if you pass these amendments, you destabilise the whole negotiation and the benefits that we have brought in place for the legal owners. (applause)
mr president, i voted against this commission proposal. there were some areas that i was able to support, but they were nowhere near enough to protect the interests of the united kingdom organisations with which i met over the preceding months leading to today’s vote. the key objectives to thwart terrorism and the transfer of illegal weapons for terrorist purposes will never be delivered by this particular proposal. they will not be delivered because of the fundamental pillar of the single market: the freedom of movement, people, services and goods. all the time that fundamental pillar is in place, nothing is going to change the access and transfer of weapons – whether they are there for lawful or unlawful purposes – within the european union member states. that means that the single market, because of its issues that i have explained, is outdated, dangerous and out of touch, given the sort of proposals that this chamber has considered today.
mr president, i welcome today’s vote on improving eu gun control. i was privileged to chair the trilogue negotiations, and i want to thank the rapporteur and shadows for all their hard work. we will see improved conditions for authorisation requirements and safe storage. we will see a revised categorisation aimed at increasing public security. we will see that activities of collectors will be covered by this directive, closing the existing legal loophole, and we will see easier rules of traceability. thanks to the key role played by the s&d group, the revised directive on the acquisition and possession of firearms in the eu will ensure that public security will be strengthened via better exchange of information among authorities. we will see more stringent rules on deactivation and use of the most dangerous semi-automatic firearms, and better monitoring systems for checking the medical conditions of users. at the same time, the rights of legal owners and users will be preserved. i thank all who have been involved in this, and i look forward to the speedy application of this directive.
mr president, we live in the midst of a data revolution. i recently visited cern, where their data centre processes the equivalent of 210 000 dvds’ worth of data every single day. tidal waves of information are generated as we log on to websites, buy train tickets or make a cash withdrawal. with big data come big opportunities. properly used, this data has the power to transform the smarter, more personalised public services, to better inform decisions, increase efficiency and unlock new ground-breaking research. of course, people have legitimate privacy concerns, and we have seen what happens when people feel they have not consented to the changes they see around them. this is why i welcome this report and the safeguards that it recommends. with big data come big challenges and big responsibilities for legislators.
mr president, they say that britain is a nation of animal lovers and i think that the 20 000 plus emails that have bounded into my inbox over the last couple of weeks – all about rabbits – pay testament to that. my constituents are angry that 99% of europe’s farmed rabbits are kept squashed into tiny wire cages. the rabbits cannot run or hop or hide as they naturally do in the wild. the eu has rightly banned similar cages for hens. now let us seize the opportunity to improve animal welfare again. it is time to end the cage age.
mr president, i am pleased to say that all of the british labour meps voted today in favour of minimum standards for farmed rabbits across the european union. i myself received over 20 000 emails calling for support for minimum legislation in relation to farmed rabbits. i also received a large number of pictures of rabbits, drawn by children from across the european union, in calls for support for action in this area. i would like to congratulate compassion in world farming on a very successful campaign. there are over 300 million farmed rabbits in the european union, which means there are more farmed rabbits than there are men in the european union, and those farmed rabbits are living in cages no bigger than two sheets of a4 paper. it simply is not acceptable. we no longer have battery hens: the time has come to end farmed rabbits.
mr president, i have also received thousands of emails from constituents who have joined compassion in world farming in calling for legal protection for farmed rabbits across the eu. a recent report by researchers from bristol university found that current legislation does not adequately address the welfare needs of rabbits. unlike other farm animals, there are no minimum standards specific to them, yet rabbits are the second most farmed animal in the eu. every year over 340 million rabbits are farmed, many of them confined in cramped and foul conditions to be slaughtered for meat. these inhumane conditions also facilitate the spread of disease, leading farmers to use alarming amounts of antibiotics. as we know, antibiotic resistance is one of the most serious public health risks facing our world today. we must move towards lower-intensity and more compassionate farming methods to safeguard the well—being of rabbits and other farmed animals and to improve the health of our population.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is an extremely important debate, and i am glad we are having it in the week when we are debating women’s issues after international women’s day and just a few days after the conference in brussels on ‘she decides’. this is a debate we should not really be having, because a woman’s access to family planning should not be a political football to be given and withdrawn depending on who is in government. in particular, it does not seem right to me that it is a decision that has been taken by people who will not be affected by it. people here will not be affected by this decision, and certainly the men who surrounded president trump when he signed it into law will not be affected by this decision. it is the poor women in the world, and the poorest countries in the world, who will pay the price – the women we heard from at the ‘she decides’ conference on 2 march. so if we are serious – as the commissioner said – about the sdgs and gender equality, we cannot afford the cuts that have been talked about. an estimated 225 million women globally lack access to modern contraception. every day, 830 women die from preventable causes linked to pregnancy and childbirth. that is over 30 an hour. it is one since i started speaking to you. as we have just heard from mrs corazza bildt, no family planning means other problems, such as hiv and other issues. let us make no mistake about it: cutting this funding does not mean fewer abortions. all the evidence from the last period when the gag was in place shows that the number of unwanted pregnancies and abortions increased when the global gag came in. mrs corazza bildt has just told us about the consequences and what happens to women when that happens. so this policy is not a success story, and that is why she said that we must step in. but we must also step up now. so what can we do here in the eu to counter this policy? well, we voted today. we voted for the report by claire moody this morning with a very big majority, calling for eu funds to counter the cuts caused by the global gag. we can support the ‘she decides’ initiative, and i pay tribute here to lilianne ploumen and the swedish, danish and belgian ministers who organised that conference and brought over 50 countries together to raise funding. we can also look at our own wider funding and prioritise srhr spending in our own plans. we have got a review of the dci coming up and of the edf in the mid—term. let us look at what we are doing already. commissioner, you indicated that the commission was willing to do this and will be talking about it in the council on thursday with ministers. i hope you will come back soon and tell us that the funding is being made available and that we will back the ‘she decides’ initiative. looking around this room, many of us here – mainly women here, but men as well – have made choices about our own fertility and if and when to have children. it is not a first world right, it is a right for every woman, wherever she lives. commissioner, i know that you will be supportive on this, but we need the support of the whole commission and ministers to make sure that women are not let down after this gag comes into place. (applause)
mr president, while i believe it is an obvious right that women’s health issues should be a concern for us all globally, i also believe it is the right of every nation to spend its taxpayers’ money in the way it sees fit. the fact of the matter is this is a decision for the government and people of the united states of america, and to call it war on feminism as someone did, is hyperbole and just demeans their argument. we must look back in history and acknowledge that this legislation is a political football, even in the united states. its origins go back as far as the reagan administration. it has been brought in and rescinded by previous administrations as the republican and democratic fortunes have waxed and waned. the powerful religious factions who support this in the united states have a precise analogue here in europe, where the catholic church strongly opposed parliament’s own sandbæk report. issues of this kind are heavily emotive and each person must reach into their own moral core to decide how to speak and vote. in the end, i believe it is not for the european parliament to tell the us government what to do. you would not be pleased if the positions were reversed, so i would urge you to consider these points. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the fact is that it is entirely up to the eu how it spends its budget. as you are doubtlessly aware, i am not in favour of the eu having a budget, but i would be greatly in favour of individual nations – and i do not believe this is a nation – doing so, if that answers your question.
madam president, donald trump is certainly proving the substance of his misogyny to the world because stifling global funds for women’s reproductive health was one of his first acts as president. the fact of shutting us up, keeping women and girls subordinate, and starving women’s health programmes in the poorest countries of the vital money they need to save lives, is in itself an act of violence. therefore i applaud the european governments which have come together and pledged to replace us aid money that is being pulled away worldwide. let us all commit here to replace every dollar withdrawn with money from europe. i hope that the commission and all the eu governments will step up to the mark. however, my own uk government has not yet committed to the initiative. i think that theresa may’s holding hands with president trump, hoping for a trade deal at any cost, shows that she has lost international credibility on issues such as this. it is only through solidarity and cooperation that we can turn back this misogynist tide. let us show this un—president trump that this is about our bodies, our choice, our rights.
madam president, the first paragraph of this resolution reaffirms the eu’s continued support for the un human rights council. unfortunately, that in itself is the crucial point here. with the wave of nativism and nationalism we are seeing, now is our time to defend and strengthen our commitment to international law and cooperation. many so—called democracies are trampling over human rights: india in occupied kashmir; israel in occupied palestine, for example. authoritarian leaders across the world – be they putin, erdoğan, trump or others – are being emboldened to violate human rights and cause pain and suffering to marginalised and minority communities. it is up to us, to all true democrats, to mobilise and defend our universal values. too often, the human rights council is used by governments for their own interests. we need to strengthen our investment in human rights institutions like the council and work to strengthen them from both the inside and the outside. we need to invest more in human rights ngos and civil society and invest in education for true democratic values to raise a new generation of human rights defenders.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i have been working on this file since 2013. it has been an extremely difficult and technical file, and i would really like to congratulate ms kadenbach for getting us to this point, and indeed to my fellow shadows for their cooperative spirit throughout our discussions. the official controls proposal was part of the review of the plant and animal health package announced by the commission in 2013 with the intention to simplify and modernise existing rules, while strengthening the enforcement of health and safety standards across the agrifood chain. this became particularly urgent in the aftermath of the horsemeat scandal. negotiations on this regulation have spanned two parliaments and 10 trilogues. i was very happy we were able to reach an agreement with the member states under the dutch presidency in june last year. the agrifood industry is worth approximately eur 750 billion a year and employs over 48 million people, making it the second largest economic sector in the eu. it is absolutely critical that we have a dynamic and streamlined legal framework to deal with this. a more uniform enforcement of controls across a number of sectors and increased transparency, as well as taking a more risk-based and thus less burdensome approach to controls, is a very positive outcome. this should help to detect fraud more effectively by concentrating resources on areas where they are most needed. if someone is intent on committing a criminal offence, it will not be easy to legislate to stop them, and indeed such intentional action should be met with dissuasive and proportionate financial penalties. by giving member states’ competent authorities strengthened instruments at their disposal, we can help tackle compliance in line with the level of risk, thereby avoiding unnecessary controls and administrative burdens for smes in particular. before i finish, i must just mention the issue of mandatory fees, which became a very difficult point in our discussions and negotiations. again, i want to congratulate ms kadenbach for her handling of this. i am sure that member states will now step up and make sure that they have the budgets available to put this into place.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this report calls for further eu harmonisation in order to achieve uniform application of rules for the agri-food chain in the eu. this includes more controls on the use of products, processes, materials, feed additives or substances that may have an impact on food safety and animal welfare. in addition, the report asks for further financial support from member states in order to perform official controls on the aforementioned products. we in ukip want to guarantee a high level of human, animal and plant health and we support the aim of informing consumers whilst guaranteeing fair commercial practices in the trade of agri-food products. however, we do not believe that the best way to achieve this objective would be through further eu legislative harmonisation. we oppose the financial impact of this project and believe that national parliaments are perfectly capable of making the best decisions with regard to all those processes, products and activities which relate to food, its production and handling and the rules which ensure that it is safe and fit for human consumption.
mr president, firstly, i would like to give my thanks to the rapporteur for this lengthy piece of work, and i am happy to welcome a more balanced text. mr president, i can welcome any report which aims to simplify and streamline european regulation, but especially a report around these important issues. however, i do feel that the commission should do more to tackle the challenges facing farmers, and in particular the mandatory labelling changes for free—range egg producers affected by outbreaks of avian influenza. these producers have, through no fault of their own, been placed at a financial disadvantage given the need to house birds in high-risk areas. these farmers are worried that such labelling moves may affect the importance of free—range status, devaluing not only their product in the long term, but also their business. the commission must do more to protect this important industry in exceptional times. i would also like to raise the concerns of arable farmers in my constituency, who are horrified at the potential outright ban of the active substance glyphosate. such a ban would increase costs for growers and limit the efficiency of their businesses in what are already difficult times. and i would call upon the parliament, and in particular the commission, to act on sound science and not scare tactics.
mr president, i would also like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the rapporteur for an excellent job. the revision of the official controls was part of the legislative package and the commission launched the response to the horsemeat scandal back in 2013. what was brought home to me clearest at that time was the sheer length of the food chain that was exposed from that particular time. in reality, however, the response was far from rapid: four years, two parliaments, ten trialogues later, agreements were finally reached in june 2016. nevertheless, i am glad agreement has been reached on the proposal, and i hope it succeeds in reducing incidences of fraudulent and deceptive practices along the food chain. it is also less burdensome retaining the use of slaughterhouse staff under the supervision of a veterinarian or auxiliary for meat inspections, and it retains flexibility in member states in terms of the fees charged in relation to controls such as in the slaughterhouses and dairy products at border control posts. crucially, the proposal also allows suitably qualified persons, and not just official veterinarians, to perform certain controls. i also welcome the fact that there are more stringent penalties to deter international and intentional fraud and the additional possibility of using a percentage of the operators’ turnover as well as penalties based on the economic advantage sought. i welcome the much waited-for agreement on this file, and that we can now have a more uniform enforcement of controls across a number of sectors, taking a more risk-based and thus less burdensome approach. i would also like to say that i hope this will lead to restored consumer confidence and that trust will return.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, for two years, meps in the special committee on tax rulings (taxe) have kept themselves busy inventing a concrete aeroplane. of course, nobody is in favour of tax fraud. but the committee was hijacked by left wingers and euro-federalists. in the eu, the legal practice of tax avoidance has become a synonym for illegal tax evasion. the more complicated you make tax, the worse it is for small business. instead of simplifying, the eu is harmonising tax and abolishing competition between various jurisdictions. the common consolidated corporate tax base is just another part of the eu’s corporatist agenda to maintain the tax cartel between europe’s socialist economies. tax competition forces governments to be efficient, and saves taxpayers’ money. fortunately, we will soon be out of this place and will be able to exercise due diligence in these matters ourselves.
mr president, einstein once said that the hardest thing to understand in the world is taxation. when you look at this special committee on tax rulings (taxe) and you look at the commission, you can quite clearly see that this chamber and its civil servants have taken that quotation to heart. they really do not understand taxation. if they understood that excessive taxation drives down business and puts people out of work, they would not be doing it. there is a man at the front of this chamber who has just put his head in his hands, and he clearly needs to go back to school to understand. mr giegold sees devils and evil behind every corporate in the world. he thinks that every businessman who gets up in the morning is trying to evade taxation and steal from the pockets of himself and those around him. the socialists in this chamber want harder taxation rather than dealing with those actually in this chamber who try to avoid it. i will not grow old thinking about my time when i have left here wondering whether there are those people in this chamber who have understood taxation, because i know they never will. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – would you agree with me, mr woolfe, that this place does not understand capitalism, and that one of the reasons they are failing the citizens of europe is that they will not try to understand that this system here does not work and that we must have reasonable taxation or people will simply not pay? why should people hand over their hard—earned income, whether companies or individuals? do you agree with me?
blue-card answer. – mr coburn, it seems to me that socialists today want to preserve their academic position by assuming that they understand everything. the fact is, they understand very little, and if only they trusted the hands of people themselves, governments should get out of the hands of public, get out of the hands of business and get out of the hands of ourselves. if that was the case, then you would see greater growth in the european union.
mr president, like the commissioner i was pleased to see that we will have a new head of the code of conduct group. the group, as many colleagues have said, has been sorely lacking in dynamism since its initial leadership under dawn primarolo. mr borg referred to two revisions in the code of conduct group but surely these cannot amount to the proper, full review of the group that this parliament was promised. such a review is desperately needed. that is evident from the recently leaked cables, with one participant stating that it was impressive to see how some member states presented themselves outwardly as proponents of tax reform and, at the same time to watch, in the code of conduct group, how they actually behave in eu discussions protected by confidentiality. so, will the council support the code of conduct group becoming more transparent? and, on the point that mr kofod underlined, will there be a shift away from the stifling unanimity which has prevented progress in this area? i would also ask this: will the group be taking forward the taxe and econ reports’ calls for action to ensure that member states notify each other of new tax measures? finally, i want to focus on the problem of tax havens. it is disappointing that mr woolfe and mr coburn have left the chamber. i actually listen to my constituents and i know they are furious about tax dodging by both businesses and individuals. and they are disgusted in particular that public funds end up in tax havens. the taxe and econ reports called for no eu funds to go to tax havens in the future. how will the commission and the council ensure that this never happens again?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, after a long and arduous process, after delays on one side and then another, the british parliament has finally voted to give the green light to the prime minister to invoke article 50 of the lisbon treaty. even if perhaps many of those here today may not join me in celebrating this momentous decision of the british people, i hope that all will recognise the exercise of democracy. there are two ways of doing a divorce. it can either be a mutual recognition that paths are leading in different directions; to still be friends and neighbours while recognising that both parties can thrive separately, but that that relationship is not working – or it can be negative and acrimonious. i certainly prefer the former. today we are discussing the guidelines for the 2018 eu budget, and the report makes all the usual calls: more resources, more eu action, more taxpayers’ money to be spent. there has always been a disconnect between the structure of the european union and the british people. this report typifies, in a lot of ways, that disconnect: strong support for common eu initiatives in defence and defence research, the interrail tickets, the fact that the court of auditors’ reports are giving such a high error rate, and the adverse opinion on the legality of the payments underlying the accounts. again, those things are put to one side. we see political groups in this parliament not only exempt from the staff reduction target, but getting 76 more posts offset by the staff reduction target for the general administration. all of these things go fundamentally against the way that the british people would see these things, but ultimately the elephant in the room is how we proceed following brexit. the uk must make sure that it is protected, and as brexit approaches, the relevance of all of the items of spending to the uk will diminish month on month. but according to the multiannual financial framework regulation, by the end of this year the commission has to put forward a proposal for the next multiannual financial framework. so in the spirit of this truth we must tell the commission, first of all, that it should of course not include the uk in its proposal for the next multiannual financial framework period, and that is an important and necessary first step for accepting brexit and moving on. there needs to be a credible long-term plan from the eu’s perspective on what happens post-brexit. the amendments that we have tabled will help protect the uk from a never-ending eu bill. they also call for cuts in the eu budget, demand further reductions in eu staff and bureaucracy, and reject expansionist eu defence initiatives.
madam president, i thank all of my colleagues here, especially soraya post, for raising this issue. the scale of the catastrophe we see unfolding before us is staggering. unicef estimates that 1.4 million children are at imminent risk of death from starvation, today in the 21st century. hundreds of thousands of children are in immediate risk in nigeria and yemen. this comes on top of the food insecurity in these regions that affects millions already, especially women and girls. clearly, more must be done urgently to save these lives. women and girls, particularly pregnant women and adolescent girls, are the most vulnerable to the effects of malnutrition. we must make sure that our policy on this is coherent and consistent. we cannot expect to solve the humanitarian crisis if we keep selling arms to saudi arabia or overlook the role of iran in the war in yemen and the region. i also want to reiterate the long-term role of education and intercultural dialogue in peace-building and development. fighting against malnutrition requires we ensure access to education.
mr president, as the european union reaches another important milestone with the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome, i want also to acknowledge another significant event in the united kingdom. this week in our national parliament legislation was finalised, paving the way for brexit negotiations. those who wish to delay and distract have been defeated. i am happy to align myself with the remarks made by our prime minister in the house of commons, acknowledging that the triggering of article 50 will be a defining moment for our nation as we work to forge a new relationship with europe and embrace the challenges of a new role in the wider world. as the european union discusses its own future in rome, it is clear that brexit will be a reality. it is in the interests of all of us, in the united kingdom and the rest of europe, that we set aside our differences and work to make it a new and successful relationship, one of cooperation and partnership, in making our people more prosperous and secure.
mr president, war is a terrible thing, and my generation went to war over discrimination, inequality, lack of civil rights and the denial of human rights. the disastrous partition of ireland divided people and communities, and there can be no going back to this. hard or soft borders, the people living in border communities in ireland will not stand for it, so frictionless or electronic borders do not reassure anyone. the damage that will be done to the peace process in ireland is immeasurable. any sort of border that will damage the good friday agreement will tell people that the political process failed. my generation will do everything it can to make sure that the next generation never has to endure what we had to. the eu has a political, legal, and moral duty to help us ensure that the next generation is not faced with hard borders or hardship. therefore, the council and the commission, in their brexit negotiations, must protect the people of ireland – north, south, east and west – from this english brexit madness.
mr president, i represent scotland within this house, and the 60th anniversary of the treaty of rome is somewhat bittersweet from our perspective. it is right that we should celebrate our common values, solidarity, cooperation, multilateralism, the acknowledgement that any problem that we face is bigger than any one country, however big, however small. but it is also right that we should reflect on just how fragile those values and that progress truly are. trust me: the ingredients of brexit exist in every one of our european countries. we cannot be complacent. i will also be in rome next weekend, in my kilt, marching alongside you, working with you, to celebrate and defend our european values, because scotland shares those european values – and those values must be defended. and scotland faces the prospect of being removed from our family of nations, against our clearly-expressed democratic will. it is not fair, and if the eu is not a community of justice, law and democracy, what are we for? you will be aware, of course, that this week the government of scotland has put the question of independence back on the table. we do that out of complete frustration at the intransigence of the uk government. president tusk, when you say that the eu will not be intimidated by threats from the london government, i assure you, neither will scotland. we will not be intimidated. we will not be silent within this process. we are citizens, not subjects. we will not be passive bystanders. independence is one of many possible futures. i believe solutions can be found. we will look to our friends and our allies.
mr president, i would like to start by agreeing with virtually every other president in this chamber – everyone seems to be a president – on the issue of turkey. turkey, under erdoğan, is moving towards a theocracy akin to the middle east. it has nothing in common with the democracies of europe and therefore turkey should never ever be allowed to join the european union. i am also going to agree, for the first time, with ms merkel, when she spoke about a two-speed europe coming down the line. it is true, there is going to be a two-speed europe. there is going to be britain with brexit in the fast lane and all you guys going in reverse. i am going to speak quickly about the treaty of rome. even though britain was not an original signatory, it would be churlish of me not to accept that it was a noble and grand plan put together by men and women who had witnessed a holocaust, who had witnessed nazi occupation and the horrors of war. but they were men and women of their time, as it is a treaty of its time. because to paraphrase the scottish poet robbie burns, the best-laid plans of mice and men often go awry, and boy has this gone awry! because what began as a noble economic plan has morphed into a political monster, egged on by successive eurocrats, who are hungry for ever more power and determined to destroy the nation state. what continues to amaze me is that you never learn. you talk about an existential crisis but you say what is needed is even more eu. you are fiddling whilst the treaty of rome burns. so what i will say is simply this: i urge caution when you are celebrating next week, because brexit could trigger a floodgate whereby other countries leave that same treaty you are celebrating next week.
mr president, do you actually ever feel like you are in a bit of a groundhog era – bit of a time warp – because every month i come in here, i certainly feel i do. mr juncker, you talk about mrs mogherini being a bit of a schizophrenic. i would agree, i think she is a schizophrenic because she is totally out of her depth. on trade: you talk about talking to civil society and trade unions. let us just read lobbyists into that. if you do a deal in the city of london, you do a deal in wall street, it actually takes weeks and months, and that is where you are failing, because you have put a former sociology lecturer in charge of trade. so therefore, that is why ttip and the other big deals have not happened. mr gentiloni, please do not delude the voters about peace in europe: it was nato that has kept peace in europe and will continue to do so. this week, my group proposed a debate on surveillance, and it was only actually mr lamberts that mentioned it. we asked for the cia hacking to be on the agenda, but you had political ideologies – you actually voted against us having that on the agenda. what is more important than keeping our citizens safe? you failed to do that, and that is why this place will fail.
madam president, i have just returned from london, following an earlier meeting with the somali ambassador to the uk, who has highlighted the tragedy that is emerging across the horn of africa, all the way down to kenya and through to angola with this drought. over two million animals have died, people are losing their lives, and i would urge colleagues from across the groups in this parliament to do what they can to highlight the tragedy which is growing across the horn of africa and encourage member states to do all they can to support them.
mr president, the brussels terrorist attacks in march 2016 saw 32 people dead and over 300 wounded. it was just one in a very long list of tragic and pointless acts of violence by religiously-motivated fanatics. they carry out their senseless violence in the name of allah and islam. more accurately, they act in the name of mohammedanism – the cult of mohammed – which has always fed on blood for the 1 400 years of its existence, and mohammedans kill their fellow muslims just as much, if not more, than they kill non-muslims. if you want to address the problem, you first have to understand and confront its fundamental cause. a minority of mohammedans take literally some passages in the qur’an. they read the bits that say ‘make war on infidels, strike terror into the hearts of infidels, and kill infidels wherever you find them’, and they act accordingly. they take literally the passage in the hadith that says: ‘judgement day will not come until the muslims fight the jews’. it is true that most muslims are law-abiding, decent people, but all muslims are followers of the cult of mohammed. that cult is an ideology of blood-soaked regressive nonsense. only a tiny minority of muslims are fundamentalists and fanatics and literalists, but it only takes a tiny minority to plunge our societies into endless terror. all muslims are not fundamentalists and terrorists, but the more muslims you have in a population, the more islam you will get, and the more islam you have, the more terrorism you will get. our arrogant and illiberal political elites of western countries have created the problem by their open-door immigration policies and the doctrine of multiculturalism. i very much look forward to hearing how the eu is going to solve that problem and address the fundamental issue. but somehow i doubt that you will.
mr president, the attacks in brussels touched many of us in this institution, and the subsequent attacks in france and germany have shown that the threats we face today from terrorism are as grave as ever. terrorists have shown that they are willing to attack indiscriminately and across europe. we only tend to notice when terrorists succeed in carrying out their atrocities, but every day our security forces are preventing other attacks from taking place across the continent. terrorists do not recognise borders and, with the free movement in the schengen zone making cross—border terror attacks easier, our strongest tool remains cooperation and information sharing. we have made progress. in fact we have come a long way on improving databases and sharing information, but more needs to be done. the data we share is only as good as the data we put in, so it needs every country in europe to fully commit to sharing valuable information in our common interests. we also need to ensure measures such as pnr are properly implemented without delay. our external borders also need continuing reinforcement. europe should not be a soft target for terrorists to just wander in. but our biggest challenge and focus remains stopping home—grown terrorism, stopping young europeans from turning against their own society. a lot of good work has already been done on the prevention of radicalisation on our streets, in our prisons, in our schools and, most importantly, on our sports fields, but there is a lot more to be done. learning from each other and sharing best practice is key. there is no single thing we can do to stop terrorism. this fight will be with us for a generation. but by sharing information, updating our databases and addressing radicalisation, we can make it harder for the terrorists to succeed.
mr president, next week will mark the first anniversary of the brussels terrorist bombings. 32 innocent civilians were killed on the streets of brussels, and around parliament we are all too familiar now with the army’s presence and regular patrols of the police that followed those attacks. it is a reminder to us all in europe of the challenges that our societies face as we seek to prevent radicalisation of our young people. of the five terrorists, four were belgians and a fifth was a swede. these attacks illustrate the importance of intelligence—sharing mechanisms to fight cross—border crime and terrorism that develops within the eu. whether this is the passenger name records, the prüm convention, the european criminal records information system (ecris), the european arrest warrant (eaw) or the schengen information system. these are all vital to providing security and protecting our citizens. as my country seeks to leave the european union, i believe it is of utmost importance that the uk stays as plugged—in as possible to all of these programmes, and that security cannot be a bargaining chip but instead be settled as a top priority early on in the brexit negotiations.
mr president, it is hard to believe that we are one year on from that terrorist attack in brussels that morning, when it came to the heart of europe. these attacks were carried out at a time of the day when they were designed to cause maximum harm, damage and mayhem. the thing that we always have to consider on occasions like this is what the families of the victims and those who have survived are probably going through as they relive that memory. i certainly welcome what the commissioner is going to do on money laundering, drugs and areas like that because this is, to a large extent, what many terrorists use to actively fund their programmes. certainly, violence and terror can never be justified nor used as an argument to achieve anything. i listen to a lot of comments, but i will leave you with one thought and that is that the victims are more important than the victim-makers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, all too often trade policy in the eu undermines citizens’ power and plays into the hands of transnational corporations. so i am delighted that tomorrow we will vote on a regulation which will do the opposite, and for the first time introduce binding rules on the imports of conflict minerals. those who deal in the four metals – tin, tanatalum, tungsten and gold – will need to check that their supply chain has no links to human rights abuses or armed conflicts. it should also be noted that, although parliament does not have formal powers to initiate legislation, this process began with the work of my colleague judith sargentini here in parliament, with the commission following up her own-initiative report with its own proposal. parliament refused to accept the commission and council’s preference for a voluntary code, which is why we now have these important binding rules for the imports of conflict minerals. we are disappointed that the final deal includes some important loopholes, particularly the fact that while parliament’s proposal included mandatory due diligence for manufacturers of products such as computers, mobile phones or laptops, this was watered down during the trilogues so that imported goods using the metals identified will not now be subject to the same binding rules. but overall, we are pleased with these binding rules on conflict minerals. this sort of restraint on the worst abuses of corporations that are so powerful in the global economy is the sort of action that citizens wish to see, and can help to build ongoing support and confidence in the european union.
madam president, at the outset of this process ‘conflict minerals’ had the potential to live up to their name in our legislative scheme, but thanks to the good work of the rapporteur and the commissioner, and indeed the flexibility of some of the council presidencies, the potential for conflict in the legislative process turned into cooperation. while not diminishing the work of others in this, i want to pay particular tribute to the work of the s&d shadow in this process, maria arena, who dug in right from the very beginning to make it clear that a voluntary scheme would not be effective, and that the only acceptable option for parliament would be a mandatory approach. i am convinced we would not be here today if it was not for her determination. we also managed to take the council proposal and broaden it to have a wider coverage of the supply chain and move it upstream. it is good that from now on citizens will know that, when they pick up their mobile phones, they are not indirectly financing conflict in places like the democratic republic of the congo. it is also good that at this time, given the lack of leadership coming from the united states on such issues, europe is demonstrating that we are still a community of values and that we are prepared to export our values to elsewhere in the world. as the commissioner herself said, and as other speakers have said, this part of a process now. this is not the end of the story. this is a beginning of the story of europe making sure that our goods are traded in a fair way that defends human rights. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i believe in a holistic approach to these issues – to coin a phrase, ‘joined-up government’ – and part of it would be to find alternatives to some of these minerals, but also some of these minerals will continue to be demanded here and it is important, when europe does trade in these minerals, that we do it in a way that is fair to the source countries and does not abuse human rights or other labour conditions.
madam president, it is very easy when we are faced with an issue to listen to some of the voices opposite who say that the costs are too big. what is the response to that – that we do nothing, that we take no action at all? that is no response for this place, and it is not in keeping with our responsibilities as representatives of the world’s biggest market. we have a unique opportunity and, as the commissioner has outlined, the responsibility has been abdicated from other parts of the world that might traditionally have taken a leadership role in this. it is up to us in this place, representing 500 million citizens, to demonstrate the benefit of working cooperatively at a european level to deal with these issues. we can no longer have a situation where the products we buy and the products we use contain minerals that are sourced from countries that have mined those materials through the use of slavery. this is a hugely beneficial measure. i pay tribute to my colleagues, and to colleagues across the chamber who have worked collaboratively on this, but crucially also to the millions of citizens who have contacted us and urged us to take action.
blue-card question. – mr marinho, would you agree with me that the limiting of the freedom of speech and what people can say – no matter how appalling it may be, and i would go to the barricades personally to defend the rights of no matter whom, communists, fascists, anyone to say what they want to say – do you think that limiting the freedom of speech, and people in this parliament making decisions about what is correct and what is not correct, and what is part of the european project and what is not part of the european project – do you not feel that this means the lights of liberty and freedom of speech are going out all over europe, and this place cannot call itself the mother of european democracy?
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, democracy is democracy is democracy. the true test of the strength of your commitment to democracy is what happens when people start expressing views that you do not like. we have heard some pretty awful examples, frankly, of the expression of freedom of speech right here. this house contains everything from communists to fascists – vile views from far-right to far-left. when we hear things like korwin-mikke’s views on women and equal rights, i do not want to defeat them through suppression and penalties. i want them to be defeated at the ballot box. when we hear communism or fascism expressed in this chamber, or frankly anywhere else, i want it defeated in public democratic debate. and so it is, i think with the european political parties. weber wants to state-fund them, but only if he likes their views of the european union. well, state-funding views that you like and suppressing those that you do not that is not voltaire. that is orwell. i think a lot of people who are pro-eu fear eurosceptic views and fear the popularity of eurosceptic views. but you cannot stop an idea whose time has come, and our time came on 23 june last year. i always try to take a broader perspective, to ask what it would be like if the boot was on the other foot. i just wonder, from the uk, i am a unionist, but could you imagine the uproar if the british government had treated the scottish nationalists in this way? i do not agree with their secessionist mantra, but is the right of the people of scotland to decide their own future, as they recently did in a referendum. if we in the uk treated the scottish nationalists in the way that this place treats eurosceptics, then the people would be up in arms. it is a testament to how ineffective those european political parties are that nobody even notices. i would rather scrap them altogether, stop pouring taxpayers’ money at it. which is it going to be: orwellian groupthink or democracy? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, you say a minority but, of course, a majority voted in the united kingdom to leave the european union. if you want to know why we are still here, i think that is a question that should be put to theresa may and to the british government, which still has not got round to invoking article 50 of the lisbon treaty. it is not our fault that the government is dragging its heels, and it is not our fault that the government is taking so long, but every day that we are still here, we are still paying into the eu budget. we have recently talked in this house about guidelines for the 2018 eu budget. we are going to be paying for that through our taxes, and so of course we have a right to have our say.
madam president, within the last 24 hours, the most shocking action that i have ever seen in this parliament has happened. this is quite blatantly an attempt to block other countries from following the route that the united kingdom took with brexit, and it is an attack on free speech and views expressed there. now you can try to shut down what you believe to be the eurosceptic oxygen that this parliament has, in terms of the enf group, the efdd group, and people like myself who stand as ‘non—inscrit’ and want to make the points that we continually do. bear in mind where the frustration and the irritation comes from within voters. there are two points: one is that this institution, and the council and the commission, have shown themselves to be completely incapable of considering a change of direction or of invoking any change. that frustration and irritation leads to a eurosceptic voice that seeks representation in this parliament. this parliament has no right to start redrawing a map in terms of funding and resourcing just because it wants to shut down euroscepticism across the european continent. now whether we like it or not, brexit has happened and it could well be that the netherlands follow suit, or that france takes a position on withdrawal from the euro, for instance. to try to block individuals – citizens – who have got every right for representation in this parliament, is just absolutely unacceptable.
blue-card question. – thank you for allowing me that. with all due respect, you are obviously a socialist and left wing, and i do not agree with your views at all, but i would die to defend your right to say what you want to say. i mean that quite clearly. i would go to the barricades to defend freedom of speech. now, who are you to say what is respectable and what is not respectable? when does that become ‘statethink’? when does that become an orwellian nightmare? i have a great fear. we are leaving this place and we have the house of commons, but i fear that this place is going to turn into something bad. could you tell me why that is not the case?
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, it is often claimed in this chamber that the eu has secured peace in europe since the second world war, and it is often pointed out from these benches that in fact it is nato that has preserved peace and freedom. in fact, even as someone who has campaigned vigorously for britain to leave the european union, i have still acknowledged that, for a time after the second world war, having france and germany engaged in a joint political project was indeed a useful support to nato in maintaining peace. but i would hope everyone in this chamber would equally acknowledge that, in cold hard terms of armies and military hardware and nuclear deterrence, it was indeed nato that shielded western europe from the threat of external attack. so what a shame that now, in the second decade of the 21st century, nato seems to be out of fashion with european politicians. most governments do not honour their commitment to spend 2% of gdp on defence, and the us has grown tired of bearing a disproportionate burden. so i am afraid the opportunists of brussels are seeking to acquire another element of nationhood: an eu army to add to the flag, the parliament, the anthem and the currency. this idea of a common defence identity is pure folly. you do not have sufficient social solidarity, nor commonality of interest, to support the financial bailouts necessitated by the euro, let alone the shedding of blood in military combat under an eu cap badge. by far the best thing would be to re-engage with nato, meet your defence spending pledges and allow britain to be a bridge to a us administration that has certainly had some tough things to say of late. stick with the entity that has stood the test of time. do not let an ideological dream, that is not shared by most people in europe, put the security of a continent in jeopardy.
madam president, i am a bit confused by mr borg’s remarks. one set of eu forces? or national forces under national control? you seem to think it’s both. i mean it’s all smoke and mirrors. god help us if we have to rely on the european union for our defence. where’s all this money going to come from, i wonder? i have to say one of the many objections we had to the treaty of lisbon was the licence it gave to those pursuing this sort of mirage of an autonomous eu defence policy. the report we are discussing confirms our misgivings. the euro-federalists seem to inhabit a curious bleak and empty space where no one else is doing anything to address the security challenges that we all face, and where their answer to every problem is more eu. of course the reality is quite different. as has been pointed out, the defence of our democracies against the threat of aggression is carried out by nato. twenty-two of the 28 eu member states are nato members, four of the remainder work closely with nato, and just a month ago finland, for instance, agreed a cyber defence cooperation arrangement with nato. nato harnesses the overwhelming military power of the united states to that of the european nations for their mutual defence, and we have the vital article 5 guarantee. so i just wonder what on earth the eu is up to with its ambitions for an autonomous defence capability. yet another bureaucratic monster, perhaps, as mr danjean put it a few moments ago referring to another bit of eu activity.
rapporteur. – madam president, this june will mark five years since montenegro began accession negotiations. having now opened 26 of the 33 chapters, with two of these provisionally closed already, the country’s strong progress as an eu candidate is clear to all. in the key areas of chapters 23 and 24 concerning justice and home affairs, genuine reform by the government of montenegro in these areas is evident. of course tackling organised crime and corruption remains a priority, but it is important we recognise that at the political level reforms have been implemented, and so it is now the time to give the support that is needed for these changes to take root. last year was an important one for montenegro. parliamentary elections took place in october. there has been a change of prime minister – i was delighted to meet the new prime minister marković earlier this year in brussels – and the accession protocol to join nato was signed. the elections were held under a new regulatory framework with individual voter registration and an electronic identification system in place. a government of electoral trust was formed in the few months preceding the election, which saw opposition parties in charge of over a dozen state organisations and several ministries, to ensure a level playing field before the election. this followed concerns from some members of the opposition parties about the possibility of undue influence from the governing parties who could abuse or use administrative resources of the state. i believe that the solution was a pragmatic one, a fair one, and welcomed by all, and i was particularly pleased to see this resolved internally within montenegro. international observers of the elections reported them to be free and fair, with fundamental freedoms generally respected by all. i am aware that there were some concerns about the closure of certain social media platforms on the day of the election, but this must be seen in the wider context of the allegations of a coup and assassination attempt against the then prime minister đukanović and a backdrop of attempts to influence events by external parties. indeed the closures in question were implemented by the agency for electronic communication and lasted for a mere hour and a half. with regard to the planned coup and assassination, judicial investigations continue, but there is a growing consensus amongst both the montenegrin authorities and eu governments that the planned attack on the then prime minister was a real and credible threat. i remain deeply concerned about the situation and i believe that it is illustrative of the growing presence that russia is seeking on the ground to exert on montenegro, and other countries for that matter in the western balkans region. intelligence linking eduard shishmakov, a russian national and a known gru agent, to the plot, supports claims of russian participation. it is clear that there is an attempt now to prevent montenegrin accession to nato in may, and also to disrupt its eu trajectory. it is for this reason that it is more important than ever for all the political parties to engage fully and properly in the parliamentary democratic process. the continued boycott of the parliament by the opposition is therefore very disappointing to friends of montenegro, and extremely damaging to the long-term credibility of montenegro’s democratic processes and institutions. i am increasingly concerned by the motives of some regarding the parliamentary boycott, and i now call from this house on all of those taking part in the boycott to consider the effects of their actions and the forces that they are helping to legitimise by their continued participation in not going to parliament. as montenegro now seeks to join nato later this year, i think it is key that we in this house demonstrate our support for that decision. nato and the eu are of course two very separate institutions, but from the perspective of montenegro the two together represent a euro-atlanticist pivot. for reasons discussed earlier in my speech it is an important time now to support that agenda and i hope that when we all vote tomorrow we will all feel minded to support the text as it is currently present in the resolution. i have always described montenegro, for the last seven years as the standing rapporteur, as a good news story of the western balkans, and i believe that this is still the case today. at the moment, however, we are hearing less and less good news stories from other countries in the region. i therefore welcome the recent visit of the high representative federica mogherini to the region and wholeheartedly support her message that the door remains open to all countries of the western balkans towards eu membership. it is vital that we ensure this message gets across. montenegro has shown how this can work, and i hope this will continue to be so for itself and all its neighbours.
madam president, it was good to see eu leaders reaffirming their commitment to the western balkans during the last european council. ahead of the meeting, as we know, some eu leaders voiced concerns about external destabilising influences on the region, and these have been mentioned again tonight. i believe our response has to be ever more visible and strong engagement in the region to support those forces that fight for human rights and the rule of law. the eu is a peace project, a project that aims to end frequent and bloody wars between neighbours, horrible experiences that the western balkans know only too well. the prospect of european integration for montenegro and the western balkans is therefore essential for peace in the region and across europe. as the commissioner noted, montenegro continues to demonstrate a strong commitment to eu integration. its steady progress in opening chapters is not only bringing it closer to eu accession, but, as many others have said, is also providing a positive example for other countries in the region. my group tabled a number of amendments to the report, specifically focused on enhancing human rights. i am pleased that many of these are reflected in the report, covering topics from ensuring media freedom to improving working conditions for civil society, to better arrangements for victims of gender-based violence, to eliminating obstacles to health care, education, housing and employment for roma people. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive collaboration during all stages of the report.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like first of all to thank colleagues for the very warm words they said about my report this evening. the debate has highlighted the continued interest that our parliament has towards montenegro and the wider western balkan region. our parliament remains engaged in the enlargement process generally and, by an overwhelming majority, supports the aims of the countries in the western balkans to all join the european union. as a member coming from a country, the united kingdom, that has now chosen, regrettably, to leave the european union, i am particularly keen to note that i believe that this was the wrong choice for britain and that montenegro should by no means see this as a reason to give up its bid for membership. as i noted earlier, eu membership can act as a vehicle for peace, security and prosperity in the balkans, and these are values that encapsulate the entire purposes of eu membership. all that remains for me to say now is that i hope tomorrow we will see the report adopted by a large majority, similar to the one we saw at the committee stage.
madam president, there can be no e-democracy without digital inclusion, especially inclusion of vulnerable people. this requires ensuring a fair, inclusive, transparent and safe access, and use of the internet for all. digital inclusion also means closing the gap between rural and urban areas in terms of internet access. there is indeed significant contrast in broadband speeds in rural and urban areas in many member states, and this presents a severe disadvantage to rural areas and puts at risk the social, cultural and economic life in the communities there. we are also asked to prepare young people to a fast-changing world which we cannot yet imagine, but one thing we know is that this world will be more and more digitised and connected, and that is why digital skills and media literacy are key. but here, again, it should not limit itself to learning about the tools and technologies; it should aim at equipping individuals with the creative and critical thinking and digital curiosity necessary for them to become not only users of technology, but active citizens in connected societies.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, information is power. if you run the data you control what people think. control thinking and you control people themselves and the choices they make. the european union has long worked on this basis. the eu knows perfectly well that by centralising the data on fish stocks throughout europe the uk can never escape the suffocating embrace of the common fisheries policy. if great grimsby, hull, scarborough, whitby or any other fishing port in the uk is to have a future then we need our sovereignty back. no ifs, no buts; we need to take back full control of all our waters and the means to choose what data we collect. we decide what is monitored and when, and how, and if. without the power to measure, analyse and utilise fishing data, the uk will still be unable to formulate its own fisheries policies and will remain under the hegemony of the cfp. this report is the trojan horse, the cuckoo in the nest, the fifth column, the hidden enemy within. sign up to this under the so-called great repeal bill – which is no such thing – and the uk has lost half the battle to reclaim our own fisheries and waters before the negotiation has even begun. if that sounds theoretical, then just ask the artisanal, shore-based fishermen in my constituency who face losing their livelihoods following the recent sea bass ban. that ban originates in eu data and data control. sovereignty shared is sovereignty lost.
madam president, it is universally acknowledged that the european union’s common fisheries policy has created enormous environmental and economic damage: discards, overfishing, plummeting fish stocks and thousands of jobs lost. we actually already have that information, and that has led to a damaging impact on communities and cultures. this report – and, i emphasise, an uncosted proposal – outlines a big data response. what is actually required is a complete overhaul and revision of the existing european union fisheries policies before this is even started. at the last plenary session here in strasbourg, the eu cloud was approved. i spoke at that meeting and i highlighted that nearly eur 5 billion was still identified as the shortfall for the funding. here we have a big data project linked to the eu cloud, we have not even identified the monies to fund the eu cloud, and yet we are seemingly going to approve a big data project. it really is back to front policy.
blue-card question. – just a small question: do you not think that this is a french and spanish plot to keep control of british fishing waters after brexit?
author. – madam president, zimbabwe should be one of the most prosperous countries on the african continent. instead, a third of its population is near starvation, relying on international food aid and brutally oppressed by a corrupt, kleptocratic regime. there is mass unemployment and hyperinflation. in fact, the country is bankrupt and its people in despair, and yet the grand architect of this misery, robert mugabe, continues in power. i have been in this parliament for 18 years and, throughout this time, have campaigned for effective action against mugabe and for freedom for the zimbabwean people. they desperately need our help. today we are focusing on the plight of the latest victims in a long line of brave people who have dared to speak out against the mugabe tyranny. we still do not know the fate of itai dzamara and we deplore the treatment of pastor evan mawarire. the international community, including the eu, has been divided and ineffective in its measures against the mugabe clique, but particular blame must go to those african governments that have not only turned a blind eye to mugabe’s atrocious regime, but have lauded mugabe himself. shame on all that have allowed this appalling situation to drag on for so long.
madam president, may i just say what a pity it is that this very serious debate about a tragic matter and a country in africa which has been ruined by the despoliation of this dictator mugabe is interrupted by what can only be seen as relative trivia, and i would call for no more interruptions of that nature. (applause)
i want to join and support this resolution, madam president, i join the work of my colleagues who are proposing this resolution which criticises the current state of affairs in zimbabwe. the whole debate today was triggered by the situation of a particular human rights defender, pastor mawarire. but it is right that the debate is not only about this person who is being unjustly politically persecuted, but also about the overall human rights situation in zimbabwe. the situation and state of human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and other constitutional rights, which are constantly suppressed in zimbabwe, must be clearly described and condemned in this plenary. it should be made clear that if zimbabwe wants money from the eu, then it needs to respect human rights, it needs to respect the basic principles of democracy. it is also necessary to check where eu money is going and whether it is not being stolen by the public authorities.
madam president, from economic powerhouse to financial ruin, from the breadbasket of africa to starvation, the mugabe regime continues to do what it has sadly always done: run zimbabwe into the ground. as far back as i can remember, mugabe has acted in this way, retaining a veneer of democracy whilst acting in a despotic and undemocratic way. this persecution of political opponents is nothing new. the same was done to morgan tsvangirai over a number of years from 2000 to 2008, with persecution and violence against those mugabe did not agree with. the rights of pastor evan mawarire, who so far as i can see has done nothing wrong, are being trampled upon. we do not even know what is happening to mr itai dzamara. we have seen assets of mugabe frozen, yet at the same time a large amount of money is being sent to zimbabwe in aid and we need to make absolutely sure that we know what we are doing, that we know why it is being done, and that we ensure that money is not going to the wrong places. i have grave concerns that may well be happening.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, three years since russia’s annexation of crimea, it is important that we continue to demonstrate our resolve in stating that crimea is, and remains, an integral part of ukraine, and to stand in solidarity with those that are suffering under the military occupation. maintaining this resolve, in which the rule of law and peaceful relations triumph against the ‘might is right’ dogma and spheres of influence espoused by putin, is essential for the european union. many will remember the visit of mr dzhemiliev, leader of the crimean tatars, to this house last year and the moving accounts he gave. the personal events of his life have been mirrored in the turbulent history of crimea, and it is a tragedy that in 2017 we are seeing further destabilisation. for the second time in his life dzhemiliev has been banned from entering his homeland, whilst for those able to remain from his community, economic conditions and the human rights situation have declined. cases of disappearances and allegations of arbitrary arrest and torture are very concerning. as we saw in the case of south ossetia, annexation is assumed by the kremlin to result in only a temporary cooling of relations with the west, only later to be forgotten. we cannot allow this to happen again with crimea. to do so would be to embolden the plans of president putin in his quest to reassert control in the former soviet space by aggressive territorial expansion.
mr president, i would like to thank open dialogue foundation for the work they continue to do to expose the russian state’s systematic abuse of human rights, and also the international campaign let my people go, which deserves more support and recognition. i would especially like to raise the case of ukrainian film—maker oleg sentsov, who was a rising star in the international film scene before his unlawful arrest. i would also like to thank belarus free theatre for their production ‘burning doors’, which tells his story. true and meaningful peace can only come about through intercultural dialogue and cultural diplomacy. that is why artists and creators have such an important role to play in developing better democracies. the russian government must immediately release sentsov and all prisoners it holds illegally, investigate reports of torture and give reparations to victims.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, since coming to power almost nine months ago, president duterte has proved himself an impulsive and brutal leader. this resolution focuses on the politically motivated arrest of an outspoken critic of the president, but her situation is only a small part of the escalating instability and the climate of fear in the philippines, motivated by the president’s policies. senator de lima’s arrest signals that the president is willing to take personal political feuds to the highest level. it also raises serious concerns for other opposition politicians and activists in the country. let us be clear about this: this is not a war on drugs. this is a war on the urban poor; this is a war, as my colleague said, on democracy; and this is a war on human rights. drugs are being used as the justification, but they are not the motivation. we must work with all our partners and all those who support due process and democracy in the philippines to convince mr duterte’s government to stop the re-establishment of the death penalty, to review the minimum age of criminal liability, and to end these extrajudicial killings and political persecution. the philippines is an important player in the region. it needs stability and democracy, and we should be supporting it in that. i was proud, two years ago, to back the re-granting of gsp+ to the philippines, but frankly, if the human rights situation in the country does not improve, we should take the logical course, which is to say: gsp+ is granted on condition of accepting certain human rights and other labour rights, and if these are not respected, gsp+ has to be removed.
mr president, drug-related crimes are an evil scourge on society, preying on the weak and causing untold misery and suffering. they should, of course, be treated with appropriate gravity; but there are legal, legitimate means of fighting a war on drugs, and there are illegal, illegitimate ones. what duterte is doing now, through extrajudicial killings, is absolutely wrong, and we must surely all condemn it. how can the world trust that government to give a fair trial to senator de lima when it tramples upon due process and judicial proceedings? in western societies we often take for granted fundamental freedoms like the presumption of innocence, habeas corpus and the right to a fair trial. these are sadly being eroded by the duterte regime. there is a huge difference between bringing true criminals to justice and what amounts to vigilante mob rule.
mr president, 14(2) rcv calls for an eu ban on drilling in ‘icy’ waters. well, that is the sloppiest piece of legislation or proposed legislation that i have ever heard. how can you talk about ‘icy’ waters? i had my apa look it up, and all he could find was ice in whisky, or ice in signore tajani’s martini. how can this describe drilling? it is ridiculous. it is ludicrous.
mr president, i supported this report, i have already spoken to the plenary on it, there are a number of positive things in it, such as the strengthening of defence spending, the efforts to strengthen defence cooperation, including the eu. but i want to say here, and that is why i have signed up to explain the vote, that there are certain parts of it that i am relatively sceptical about and in which i see certain possible tensions towards nato, which i consider to be a key defence alliance within the european continent and the euro-atlantic bond. in short, we should continue to debate the extent to which we want to create a european armed force, what it will look like, and whether it will be compatible with nato or competitive with nato. if it were the latter, competition with nato, i would have a big problem with that and i would hardly be able to support this project in this area in the future.
mr president, as we near the anniversary of the horrific terror attacks in brussels, my thoughts and prayers go out to the families of the victims of such awful terror. we in northern ireland are no strangers to the legacy of the pain and loss left by ruthless terrorist gangs. our message to you is clear: we must never allow those who perpetrated terror to rewrite the narrative of the past. it is wrong that those who now serve in this chamber should try to glorify their deadly deeds and rewrite the narrative of the past, yet not be held accountable. this will not prevent new generations of young people from being radicalised, a point that i stressed to commissioner king earlier this week. i also made it clear that northern ireland and the united kingdom as a whole remains committed to working with the european union to secure a safe and prosperous future for all our people. this should be a key priority in the brexit negotiations.
mr president, e-democracy offers the promise of enhanced democratic participation by e-consultations, but e-petitions etc. come with their own challenges. firstly, democracy favours the younger generations, with older people often being less technically savvy, and their interests must be protected. secondly, systems like e-petitions are prone to abuse, with algorithms being deployed to up the voting numbers, resulting in inappropriate outcomes. thirdly, e-democracy can slow down the decision-making process by triggering debates in parliaments. finally, e-democracy comes with the threat of hacking, identity theft and data leaks. unless all four of these areas are solved and resolutions found i will not be able to support e-democracy in this parliament.
author. – mr president, i think this is a good innovation – more like prime minister’s question time in the house of commons, the mother of parliaments, so perhaps the centre of the european democracy is following the mother of parliaments. cooperation between human traffickers and ngos engaged in search and rescue in the mediterranean. on 15 december 2016, the financial times, which i am sure you all know, published several excerpts from leaked frontex reports that suggest a high level of cooperation between smugglers and ngos: - ‘…criminal networks were smuggling migrants directly on an ngo vessel’;- ‘…clear indications before departure on the precise direction to be followed in order to reach the ngo boats’ - ‘…people rescued by ngo vessels were often “not willing to cooperate with debriefing experts at all, with some claiming that they were warned not to cooperate with italian law enforcement or frontex”.’ this period has also witnessed a surge in ngo activity in the region and a sharp drop in rescues in response to distress signals. frontex suggested the latter is due to ‘ngos cooperating closer to libyan territorial waters’ or even the lights used by rescue boats, which the agency said acted ‘as a beam for the migrants’. does the commission believe that such actions constitute cooperation with the smugglers, and if not, could it define what would? does it believe that such actions constitute collusion, and if not would it define what would? does the eu provide any financial assistance to ngos engaged in search and rescue in the mediterranean? is frontex hiding anything we should all know about, since we are paying them? i think this place should know more.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this important debate this afternoon on the links between human traffickers and ngos would not have been possible if it were not for the efdd group taking this initiative. this is an important topic and needs to be addressed, and not simply brushed under the carpet. in december last year, the financial times published excerpts from a leaked frontex report that suggested there was a high level of cooperation between people smugglers and ngos. the leaked report claimed criminal networks have been assisting migrants by giving clear indications on which direction they need to take to reach the ngo boats. unforgivably, there have also been reported cases where migrants have been smuggled directly onto ngo vessels, so it is alleged. it is not just criminal gangs and ngos who are benefiting from this crisis, but also islamic extremism. current migration policies adopted by the eu and chancellor merkel have enabled terrorist organisations such as isis to smuggle their supporters into europe, which has enabled them to carry out a number of attacks. opening up europe’s doors indiscriminately has put at risk not only the lives of migrants who make the treacherous journey, but also the lives of ordinary europeans who now face the threat of terrorism on a daily basis. ukip have said from the very start of this crisis that we need to have a tough but fair policy on this crisis to stop innocent lives being lost at sea and to stop the profiteering of criminal gangs and isis. to date, the uk government has committed over gbp 2.3 billion to helping refugees in syria and the region, the second largest donor, and since its inception, almost 4 500 syrians have entered the uk under the syrian vulnerable person resettlement programme. perhaps the eu would do better to follow the uk’s example rather than have desperate people paying vast sums of money to smugglers who only view them as a disposable commodity.
mr president, i think we can all understand to some extent and sympathise immensely with the problems that the mediterranean area has faced, not just in recent months but over a considerable period of time. there is no doubt we can all agree and condemn those involved in human trafficking and the smugglers, and it is a serious question why some of this has been allowed to continue by some of the nation states that are involved within this area. well, i think professor marias hit the nail on the head when he said you have to identify and distinguish between the refugees and the illegal immigrants. i think we would do well to listen to what he says because he is coming very close to what has not been taken up by many and has been misrepresented by others. so we would do well to listen. as someone with my past and the situations i have been through, i have learned that you need to deal with the facts. newspapers do not refuse publicity and they do not always tell us everything that is there.
mr president, volunteering experiences and mobility offer citizens, especially young people, opportunities to broaden their horizons and grow as a result of new encounters. this not only leads to the development of skills, competences and knowhow but most importantly opens the door to other cultures and different visions of the world. volunteering can equip people with the necessary skills and attitudes to become active, responsible citizens open to intercultural dialogue, which is much needed in the turbulent times we live in. volunteering is particularly interesting in a broader context of occupational literacy. i agree, though, that in order to be successful the initiative proposed by the commission must provide clear objectives and build on existing local grassroots organisations, so a close cooperation with ngos, civil society and youth workers is needed. citizenship and solidarity cannot only be piloted centrally, it must happen on the ground. sport and arts must also be part of this and we must maintain a gender perspective. and we must reach out to the excluded young people as well as refugees and migrants. this, then, would be true solidarity.
madam president, my apologies for being late in the chamber. i just wanted to support the question that has been put down this afternoon because when many of us ask questions of the commission or the council, i get the impression that they sometimes think we are just doing it out of badness or just to make some political point, whereas often what we are trying to do is genuinely seek information and perhaps forward some useful political process. on a number of occasions i have put down questions and i have either had a delay, or when i have had a reply it has been a thoroughly inadequate response. for example, in december i put down a question about the negotiations going on in cyprus and asking what sort of helpful role could the council and commission be playing in those negotiations, and it was not until february that i got a reply and it told me absolutely nothing at all, so i do think we need to seriously look at this issue.
madam president, written questions are a valuable tool for doing the job of representing our constituents when they want us to represent them in this place on issues which are affecting them, and they are one of the few ways that we can hold the commission to account and ensure proper democratic scrutiny, and one of the few ways that we can gain information about the huge areas of responsibility of the european commission. but it seems sometimes that when answers would be embarrassing to the commission we do not get answers that fully respond to the question, if we get answers at all. parliament has already limited the number of questions that we can ask. it seems that the movement is all in one direction, but the system here is not working. it goes to the heart, in my view, of the distinction between an elected body and an unelected body and the principles of democratic scrutiny and transparency and that, sadly, in the eu institutions is so often a major failing.
author. – madam president, commissioner, the european union has built a tremendously-respected process of fighting human trafficking and protecting its victims. it is six years since the anti-trafficking directive came into force. it is held up globally as the gold standard for its gender-specific and victim-centred approach. but new challenges are emerging, and the number of trafficked people continues to rise. the nature of this crime makes it hard, but not impossible, for authorities to obtain data and identify victims. it is therefore absolutely essential that we allocate eu funding in an effective, evidence-based system to address sexual exploitation and invest in prevention. human trafficking is a high-profit crime. we need to know who buys and who profits. it is also vital that trafficked individuals are seen as victims, not criminals, and helped to recover. europe can and must do more. human trafficking is still a threat and feeds on poverty. however, only ten member states have so far established using a victim of trafficking as a criminal offence. commissioner, this house demands that we continue our efforts to stop impunity and make prosecution of traffickers and their users our biggest priority. although most victims or are of european origin, the refugee crisis is feeding the supply, especially the thousands of unaccompanied, vulnerable minors. we have made progress in the eu but we need to plan the next stage. without action and funding we will slip backwards, and that is why we ask the commission to publish its new strategy now. we – but more importantly, the victims – cannot wait. human trafficking is happening now in europe, where we all live, and we must open our eyes and continue the commission’s work on addressing human trafficking.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, trafficking in human beings is on the rise and criminals are using the eu as a springboard for exacerbating this crime. new evidence from the uk national crime agency shows that criminals from former overseas territories of member states are taking advantage of gaining eu citizenship and creating child-trafficking routes between those territories to the uk or the eu. an example of this is non-eu nationals who become naturalised as portuguese citizens and are using portuguese identity documents to set up bank accounts. this allows them to receive payments from former portuguese territories such as angola. they are scouting for their victims. the uk’s decision to withdraw from the eu will allow our national government to end the free movement of people, resulting in the return of uk control over uk borders. criminal background checks and preventive measures will significantly help combat trafficking in human beings and sexual and labour exploitation, ensuring better protection for uk citizens.
madam president, throughout last year we received reports of 10 000 and more unaccompanied refugee children entering europe, being registered and subsequently disappearing. these reports are no longer headline news, but the problem has not been addressed. these unaccompanied minors, especially women and girls, are often trafficked and taken into an underworld of sexual exploitation and abuse. this is a europe-wide problem and it requires continuous eu-wide work, commitment, investment in resources and prosecution of criminal traffickers. in my own country, the uk, hundreds of unaccompanied refugee children were discovered to be not given any safe haven and it is one of the reasons why the dubs amendment to welcome refugee children in the uk was so important. shame on the conservative government for going back on its word and ending the scheme when only 350 children had benefited instead of the 3 000 who were promised a safe haven. as a founder of the children’s rights intergroup i will never stop fighting for a compassionate, effective, legal, rights-based response.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the s&d group are pleased with this own-initiative report. we have had good cross-group cooperation and agreement on the important issue of palm oil and deforestation. at the eleventh hour a letter was received by some of us from ambassadors representing some of the palm oil producing countries outside of the european union. the letter makes four criticisms of parliament’s own-initiative report on palm oil and deforestation. however, all of these can be countered. the first criticism made in the letter is that palm oil is not the main deliverer of deforestation. in reply, it may not be the single biggest cause of deforestation but it is responsible for some 29% which is a significant amount of deforestation. the european union has signed up to ending deforestation and as the third largest market for palm oil the eu cannot turn a blind eye. consumers have responsibilities too. the second criticism is that the report attacks the reputation of palm oil producing countries. no, it does not! nor does it call for the phasing out of palm oil. the third criticism, that the aim of a single certification scheme is redundant, is not true. too many schemes are now confusing the customer. we need one certification scheme. the fourth criticism is that the report is partial and not inclusive. in reply, this again is not true. the process involved a sustainable palm oil round table which involved growers, cooperatives, processers, traders, development ngos, environment ngos and social ngos. it was inclusive. it is an inclusive report. to conclude, the european union signed up to the un paris agreement on climate change and this report helps deliver the eu’s obligations and should be supported by members of parliament.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms konečná, and her team for their work on this file. the text we will vote on is a true compromise text, and i appreciate the efforts made to accommodate all of our positions. i am just going to concentrate on one thing here today, my personal priority in these discussions and something i am very pleased that has been included. it is the call for one single certification scheme at eu level. this is a scheme which businesses and consumers can easily recognise. i believe the existence of multiple certification schemes confuses consumers. you do not know which logo or scheme to trust when seeking to make a sustainable consumption choice. i understand that there are difficulties. the main growers, most particularly in south-east asia, the indonesian and malaysian growers, have not reached an agreement on what level of sustainability there should be and how it should be certificated. i am delighted that in our report we have laid that out really very carefully. a huge amount of work went on from the rapporteur to get that right, so that it is sensible, it is annotated, it lays out what we think could be done, what we think should be done. i believe that this is a huge step forward. rather than continue to demonise palm oil – some of the language even this evening i cannot possibly agree with, although i do recognise that deforestation is a bad thing – we should move ahead firmly with the certification schemes as laid out in this report and really get ourselves behind it here in the eu.
madam president, the rapid deforestation on the islands of sumatra and borneo in indonesia are of great concern, in particular the threat of extinction to the species that live there. in fact borneo and sumatra are the only places on earth where tigers, rhinos, orang-utans and elephants coexist. such deforestation, caused by the increased demand for palm oil over the past 20 years, is driven in part by the demand for their use in biofuels and biomass, and has led to the decimation of parts of both the indonesian and amazonian rainforests. to add insult to injury, these wildernesses, teeming with wildlife, are being replaced by huge palm oil plantations, a sterile monoculture that supports very few living creatures. coupled with illegal logging, we are witnessing an ecological disaster, as these wildernesses are being sacrificed on the altar of anthropogenic global warming climate change. however, my party ukip, are unable to support this report as we believe that legislation such as this is too important to be decided by the european union, and should be left to nation states collaborating at international, rather than at european, level.
member of the commission. – madam president, thanks largely to the solid set of legislation, which aims to ensure that food is safe for consumers, the european union has probably the world’s highest food safety standards. our european union system imposes strict hygiene and safety controls on food imports, and in particular on animal products for which systematic documentary, identity and physical checks are compulsory. immediately after the information became known about the deficiencies in food licensing in brazil, on 17 march, and following the commission’s advice, member states – in addition to the existing documentary and identity controls – introduced reinforced physical controls to ensure the safety of imports from brazil, focusing on food hygiene requirements. as soon as news came to light about the fraudulent practices in the brazilian meat sector, the commission asked the brazilian authorities to ensure that there were no exports to the eu from any establishments in brazil that could bear a risk of non-compliance with european union requirements. we immediately introduced a request to ban the imports from establishments implicated in the scandal; we requested the reinforcement of control checks at eu borders and we made clear to the brazilian authorities our dissatisfaction, including learning of this crisis in the media rather than through official channels. we continue to ensure that member states authorities are continuously informed about the evolution of the situation; we are preparing urgent audits of brazil. in addition, let me stress that all consignments currently en route to the eu from the establishments implicated in the fraud will be rejected and returned to brazil. the importance of the controls on imports at the point of entry to the eu – at border inspection posts – is crucial. the commission is in close contact with the member states to ensure a harmonised approach as regards these reinforced checks. a full consensus was reached on these reinforced checks and on the way they should be selected. in particular, it was confirmed that there should be 100% physical checks on all consignments presented for import to the eu and 20% microbiological checks. it was also confirmed that importers would be liable for the cost of these reinforced checks. in the light of the outcome of these reinforced checks, the evolution of the situation and the response of the brazilian authorities to the demands for corrective measures, the commission and the member states will decide whether further measures are necessary. in this regard, the protection of european consumers will be the determining factor. the commission will also undertake audits of brazil as soon as possible and not later than mid-may. i would like to use this opportunity to thank members of the european parliament for their recent vote in favour of the new official control legislation which will enable the commission to ensure even more vigorous controls of imported food products. let me also reassure you of my personal commitment to ensure the safety of european consumers. with this objective firmly in mind, i met with the brazilian minister of agriculture, mr maggi, last tuesday in brazil. i had an open, long and frank discussion with the minister. i asked him to provide more information on the state of play and the next steps that he planned to take. i also stressed the need for brazil to restore the trust, reliability, predictability and independence of the brazilian official control system. in addition, i made a point of passing on to the minister the positions and concerns of the member states, as well as the requests coming from honourable members of this parliament. my services also had a meeting with brazilian officials on 30 march to further discuss this matter. it was agreed that the minister would send more details about the findings of the investigation and the possible food safety impact. important progress was also made on two other requests from the eu. first, the brazilian authorities agreed on concrete steps to solve long-standing applications for export from the eu to brazil, and to make the approval process more predictable. we also discussed how to improve our cooperation using the bilateral sanitary and phytosanitary mechanism. second, in relation to avian influenza, brazil also promised to accept the principle of regionalisation based on region of outbreak. speaking about possible recognition of the eu as a single entity, the brazilian counterparts showed some openings. however, more discussions will be needed. in addition, we discussed cooperation on antimicrobial resistance and animal welfare. just today we received a letter from minister maggi informing us, and i quote: ‘the issues investigated by the federal police in the four establishments are authorised to export to the eu are related to conduct misbehaviour and economic fraud not representing any risk to food safety.’ the minister also informed me of the modification of brazilian legislation for the inspection of products of animal origin, among other things. turning to the negotiations with mercosur, trade relations between the eu and brazil currently take place within the framework of the world trade organisation. however, the proposed future agreement with mercosur would not undermine our high safety requirements. current as well as future imports from mercosur countries will have to respect these requirements. this will not change. a future eu-mercosur agreement will not lower our high regulatory standards for food safety. it will not authorise imports of agri-food products if they do not meet our high food safety requirements. the agreement will, however, reinforce cooperation with the authorities of brazil and other mercosur countries by means of updated provisions to establish solid information and notification systems in the sanitary and phytosanitary field. this would strengthen our reaction capacity via a privileged channel with the four countries concerned. to conclude, let me emphasise that current and future imports into the eu will always have to meet the high quality and food standards established by our eu legislation and implemented through a credible certification and control system. once again, a future eu-mercosur agreement would not lower our high regulatory requirements and food safety standards for agricultural imports from mercosur countries, including brazil.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i thank the commissioner for what he has said tonight. this scandal, when i raised it in the committee on agriculture and rural development – with the full support of the committee – certainly brought home to us how dangerous this situation can be. but i say to the commissioner: this is not the first time brazil has pulled the wool over europe’s eyes. they did it back in 2007 and 2008, and it took a delegation from this parliament to go out there to prove that your commission was not telling us everything. so commissioner, i have to say to you tonight – and the previous speakers and ms mcguinness have referred to this – you have not answered all the questions that we asked. we need more answers. this is simply not good enough. and if they have pulled the wool over our eyes once again then we have got to ask the question: how long are we going to allow them to do similar actions as they have done in the past? i sincerely hope you are not telling us here tonight that nothing will change, because if that is the case that is unacceptable, certainly from my point of view and from the point of view of consumers throughout the european union. and you are quite right: you told us here tonight that we in europe are the best, we have the highest possible standards that anyone can hope for. but that is something that has got to be kept right; and it is not right if we allow other countries to break that. and it is even more wrong that you say talks with mercosur will go on and the negotiations there will go on. they must be ended as well.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this is the second time that the british beef consumers have been let down by the eu. in the first instance our consumers were conned into eating horsemeat when they thought they were eating beef. they were obliged to rely on the eu hack-up process of traceability which is only as good as the least honest person in the food chain. now we discover that relying on the commission to monitor the conduct of the brazilian meat industry is a very naive aspiration. the commission did not have a clue what was going on as grossly substandard meat arrived on eu shores from brazil. this is particularly worrying as the commission had ambitions for yet more brazilian beef imports in its mercosur negotiations. british beef producers are subject to rpa inspections, assurance scheme inspections and the scrutiny of animal rights organisations, whilst the cost of meat processing is higher than it need be due to the eu’s insistence on expensive veterinary surgeons to attend abattoirs when the experienced reliable british meat inspector had done an excellent job. brexit gives us the opportunity to address these problems.
madam president, it is vitally important to take food quality and food security seriously and the brazilian meat scandal has reinforced this message. there can be no place for corruption at the heart of any food supply chain and we must congratulate the brazilian police for tackling the problem. in northern ireland we make enormous efforts to ensure the safety and traceability of our food. however, many of the farmers and processors that i represent are questioning the ability of the commission to guarantee that product entering the eu is of a comparably high standard. why did the inspections not uncover this problem and leave it to the brazilian press to break the story? why is it that only now additional measures to ensure food safety are being adopted? as the commission races ahead with the mercosur trade deal, what measures will be put in place to ensure food standards and consumer safety? many farmers in northern ireland believe that the commission has a laissez-faire attitude to imports which is quite contrary to the stringent and over-burdensome requirements placed on them. what we need is a full investigation. all affected plants must be delisted from exporting to the eu and any product from these plants removed from the food chain. if we do not get a satisfactory response from brazil, then we should be prepared to consider a ban on imports until such times as we have a proper reassurance.
madam president, i am saddened to hear so many colleagues using this crisis is an opportunity to trot out their dogmatic anti-global views. our reaction to the brazilian meat scandal should not be a purely protectionist attitude. suggestions that the scandal could undermine the negotiation of the eu-mercosur agreement are not only unhelpful, they are also disproportionately excessive in my view. four plants eligible to export to the eu were implicated in the scandal. this is very manageable in terms of an investigation. moreover, given the increasingly interdependent nature of the global environment such a closed-minded approach would be counter-productive and damaging at a much broader level. the focus should be on finding ways better to uphold europe’s high standards. this applies both to the delivery of consumers’ expectations for quality as well as ensuring that the eu producers are not penalised for adapting to ensure these standards are maintained. i would like to see a full report identifying lessons that we can learn and measures to be enforced. i know that mr siekierski summed up our questions at the beginning and we would like to hear full answers.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, marc tarabella, for his work on this report, which recognises the role of women as entrepreneurs in rural areas. it is indeed important for the commission and member states to invest in the empowerment of women in entrepreneurship in rural areas. it is also important to invest in access to technology and connectivity to the internet and in promoting education and training for women and girls in business, science, technology, engineering and green jobs, especially in places where such facilities are lacking. we should also emphasise the role of cooperatives, social enterprise and alternative business models in providing a powerful platform for women’s economic empowerment and independence. the eu can make a significant positive impact with more funding in that field, as has happened with the esf and erdf programmes, such as leader funding for rural areas like cumbria, and the daphne programme for women.
madam president, the european union has always been a project of peace, democracy and human rights, keeping the peace on this continent for decades, yet now, within days of triggering the uk’s exit process, senior tories are already threatening to go to war with spain. how utterly foolish. it is imperative that we continue to speak out to the british people about the eu’s role in promoting peace and human rights. one year ago today, british iranian citizen nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, was imprisoned in iran on unknown charges but, together with many fellow meps, i have sent a letter to key iranian leaders urging her release, as well as that of eu iranian prisoners dr jalali and nazak afshar. the eu must continue to be a pillar for human rights in the world, to take a stand when children are imprisoned in bahrain, for example, or when lgbti people are rounded up and killed in chechnya, as is being reported. it is true that working together we can achieve more than alone and we must continue to speak that truth.
mr president, i would like to thank all of those have been involved in this committee of inquiry, including all of my colleagues from across the chamber. i have to give special mention to my office who have been fantastic, and mr alex keynes, in particular, whose work on this has been brilliant. the verdict of our report is very clear. there have been clear instances of maladministration not just in the commission, but crucially in member states, where the oversight and surveillance were not taking place as they should have been. there have been aspects of widespread fraud throughout the industry that we have uncovered. i am very grateful to the commissioner for her words today because i think that, although we have to see what actions will follow, the commitment that she has shown here today is very welcome indeed, particularly when you consider the starting point that we had in this committee of inquiry, not just the challenges we had to set it up, but also the insistence at many levels that nothing had gone wrong. but we cannot waste this unique opportunity now to ensure that we never have another repeat of a scandal like dieselgate. we have to remember that this parliament is voting not just on a piece of dry legislation, not just on another report that goes through the normal machinations. this is our response to that crisis, that crisis of confidence in our vehicle industry, yes, but a crisis in public health. that is why it is not enough to say that we cannot have the tools at our disposal to sort this out. we need that agency. we need that independent level of operation to have vehicle surveillance across the european union. and please, when it comes to compensation, let us not talk immediately about companies going out of business, as if we could put those roadblocks up at the very start. this is a basic principle at play here. consumers in the us have been compensated; consumers in the european union have not. that is an issue of basic justice, and what are we for in this place, if not to stand up for consumers? please support the amendments on consumer rights.
mr president, dieselgate has given a real public platform to an issue that so many others have been following now for years. whilst not a supporter of the setting-up of this committee at the outset, i do acknowledge the benefit of increasing awareness that has arrived, so thank you to all of my colleagues for their work. it is the details of the complex legislation and its proper implementation at member state level that will be telling in the future. in the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal the european commission made new legislative proposals to ensure that car manufacturers comply with eu safety, environmental and production requirements. maybe they do not go far enough – i am thinking, for example, of conformity factors here – but they are a good start. it is clear that we need to have better and more independent oversight of cars that are in circulation. those of us working on air quality have known for some time about the problems with real driving emissions. that is a separate issue from fraud but, by its very nature, is purposefully perpetrated. today i am supporting the call for a new european vehicle surveillance agency in this report and, more importantly, in the legislative type-approval vote that will come later. manufacturers and regulators knew for some time before the vw story broke about some of the discrepancies between the approval stage and on-road testing. i believe that a new agency is the only way to ensure compliance verification and enforce proper oversight of testing at eu level.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, as is customary. we got to know each other very well during the many hours of discussions we had on this report. we had some disagreements, as is expected on a file of this importance, but i believe that we have come to a very good compromise in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection in the end. let us be clear: the volkswagen scandal – and it was not just volkswagen, but we have called it the volkswagen scandal – was the tip of the iceberg. consumers have been treated with contempt for a long, long time. they long ago gave up any trust in the fuel consumption claims that are made by manufacturers, and now they know that the emissions claims are wrong as well. this was a scandal that was waiting to happen. but what we have here in front of us now is a fundamental change from the current system and a very good compromise. it is far from the status quo. firstly, we have new tests. the rde testing means cars that will be tested on the roads, not just in the labs. that is a fundamental change from the system that existed before. secondly, we have a new market-surveillance system. member states have an obligation under this proposal to test 20% of types every year. they have to have their plans approved by the commission, and the commission is also empowered to do whatever tests it wants to do in addition. thirdly, we have a new forum, which the commission will direct and with independent peer review. so the commission will get all the information it needs from member states, stakeholders, ngos and civil society in order to know the problems much, much earlier and have the tools to deal with them. every member state has to apply the same rules. there are fewer opportunities now for forum shopping and independent auditors will check on a periodic basis that rules are applied fairly and clearly. fees cannot be paid directly by manufacturers to testing centres, which deals with the concerns that many had about manufacturers’ influence. and we have a proposal on consumer redress. the fines will go into a fund that will help consumers and the environment. this is a big, broad and ambitious package which got huge support in the internal market committee. no one change in the system will prevent fraud, but together all these changes will guard against, firstly, cars incorrectly being put on the market, and, secondly, cars being on the market for a long time before a fault is found. we cannot stop all non-compliant products getting on the market. if someone wants to cheat the system, they are going to try and cheat the system, but we need to make sure that we have a system that is as strong as possible to catch them when they do it. i would also remind everyone that type-approval is not just about emissions. it is primarily about safety standards for cars on our roads. i also want to touch on the agency because we have had a big debate about the agency, which is still raging today. i am not against an agency if it can be proven that there is a benefit from the agency, but so far i have not seen a benefit. i have yet to see a consumer who wants an agency that is remote from the market and hidden from the consumer. the justification also seems to be weak. agencies are just as susceptible to political pressure as the commission or member states, and this gives an excuse for national member states not to act when they should be acting. it has not been costed, there is no detailed impact assessment and there is no idea how it is going to manage the market surveillance system. let us be clear: this will cost a lot of money and we need to be right, sure and confident that it is going to do the job before we propose it. i also have a bit of concern with one of the amendments from the greens: amendment 343, on what i would call a ‘victim’s levy’. this will effectively be a fine on people who want to buy new cars. this is a little bit like you getting mugged, the police coming to you and saying ‘we’re terribly sorry we didn’t stop you getting mugged, but we’ll take a bit more money out your pocket to try and stop it happening again’. this is not the right way to deal with the issue. it is not the right way to fund an agency or any of these measures. so i do not think we should be going down that line. as i said before, we have got a good agreement in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection that was supported by most members. it is robust, good for consumers, good for the environment and fair for industry. i do not think we should confuse that issue with an agency. but now i am looking forward to hearing all your remarks. i know that there are going to be plenty of remarks, and i am looking forward to a very good debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the mutual recognition of product standards is a cornerstone of trade within europe and the type approval process for new cars is a prime example. once a vehicle has passed its safety and emission tests in one country it can then be put on the market across all other countries without having to undergo further tests. it saves manufacturers millions in costs which would otherwise be spent on duplicative bureaucracy. buying a new car is the single largest purchase most individuals make and it is important that consumers trust the system and therefore the test process must be thorough and robust in every country. this new report tightens the tests of vehicles on and off the road, it introduces new tests for the testers and regular re-testing of existing models. penalties are introduced for those who try to cheat the tests. this is a fundamental review of the approval process for cars in europe and i would like to thank my british conservative colleague dan dalton for leading this piece of work and my colleagues from all across europe who have worked with him. in a post-brexit world it is in no one’s interest to re-introduce unnecessary red tape and i hope both sides will continue to cooperate on regulatory matters to enable mutual recognition to continue and work together for strong standards not only in the uk and europe, but also across the rest of the world.
blue-card question. – i listened to the speech with interest. my question is about economics, as opposed to regulation. how much regulation do you think is too much? the cost of all this will ultimately impact on the market, ultimately impact on the cost of the vehicles, ultimately impact on the desire of consumers to purchase and on how many jobs there are across europe in the automotive sector. so my question to you, sir, is: how far is too far in regulation, and where do we have the balance?
mr president, the volkswagen scandal of 2015 sent shockwaves across the world. just how easy it was for volkswagen to manipulate the emissions testing certainly raised many questions and concerns. our consumers expect and deserve better from our businesses. but for all the faults that the volkswagen scandal has exposed, the answer in this place is never to let the market decide or to allow national authorities to learn from mistakes. instead, the eu takes the opportunity to engulf us in more legislation and more powers for bureaucrats and bureaucracy. for businesses, this is an eye-watering eur 40 billion bill for the taxpayer. i am absolutely in favour of protecting consumers and holding businesses to account, but i simply cannot support legislation that is going to cost our taxpayers billions, and hand further powers away from the united kingdom. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i would like to know where your figure of eur 40 billion comes from and how you justify it. secondly, i would like to know why, as a representative of the uk, you have not mentioned the health issues here at all. you value business, but you do not seem to value the cost to people’s health. how do you expect health improvements to be made without some of the steps that are in this legislation?
blue-card answer. – [microphone off for opening words] a sovereign country to be able to look after the health and state of its own citizens. i also believe that you can actually allow the market to work in a sensible way. after all, if consumers are short—changed and if they are poisoned by inadequate consequences, they are not going to buy these products. i believe the market will find its level, but i also reject your question about not caring about consumer health. we most certainly do. in the short time we have here, we answer as best we can.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all colleagues for their comments. the general view, i think, is that the proposal by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) is a good one. it is a compromise. everyone has had to move from their original positions, everyone has had to give things up, and i think we need to recognise that. i just wanted to make it clear what type approval is, because i think that there is some confusion, especially on my right, as to what exactly the system is. we have a national system of type approval with mutual recognition across europe and, as mr schwab said, one type approval for the whole of the eu. that is good for consumers, it is good for jobs, it is good for industry, but it is in everyone’s interests to know that the system works in other eu countries because this affects everyone. people in germany, for example, need to be confident that the system in italy, say, works, as cars approved in italy will be driven in germany. so we need an umpire. we need a role for the commission, as the report recognises. now most speakers wanted more independence, transparency, obligations on member states, compensation, a stronger system: all of that is in this imco report. on the agency – this is the last time i talk about the agency, i promise! – that is not actually the key thing in this report. the details are much more important. i think that the commissioner is sitting on the fence a little bit, clearly not convinced about the agency; but bas eickhout’s answer was, i think, actually the most instructive: the cost and bureaucracy of setting up the agency just to send the results to the same people in the commission who will deal with the info under the system that we are proposing. it will always come back to the commission to act, but it is clear that as a parliament we are split down the middle on this issue. we have to sort it out in a vote and i will support the outcome whichever way it goes. no system will stop people who want to cheat the system, but i think that we have got a stronger system now. the key is to make sure that we get them once they have cheated the system. i think that we can do that. it has been 18 months since the volkswagen scandal. it has been 15 months since the commission came forward with its proposal. it is time now for us to get on with it, so i effectively commend this report to the vote later today and i look forward to starting negotiations with the commission and council as soon as possible.
rapporteur. – madam president, i will be very quick as i know everyone wants to get on with the voting. under rule 59(4), i would like to request to refer this matter back to the committee responsible in order that we can begin interinstitutional negotiations.
madam president, the production of palm oil has resulted in deforestation across indonesia, papua new guinea, malaysia and parts of africa. it is directly responsible for huge swathes of destruction to natural habitats, flora and fauna. it is also completely out of control, with corporates using it in everyday items such as shampoo and doughnuts, and it is now even being proposed for use in united kingdom banknotes. to take global action on the production of palm oil and mitigate the environmental consequences, it is vital that international commitments are honoured, in particular the united nations forum on forests, the united nations convention on biological biodiversity, the new york declaration on forests and the sustainable development goal to halt deforestation by 2020. the united kingdom has a record of doing, not just saying, and with brexit i trust this will set an international example for the remaining 27 member states.
madam president, i welcome these recommendations made by parliament following the inquiry into the dieselgate scandal. the people i represent are horrified that car manufacturers have been cheating on emissions tests, and they demand strong action from the european parliament to stand up to this corporate abuse of power. i am disappointed that the green proposal for an independent agency to regulate and monitor emissions was not passed. such a body is essential to safeguard the health of the people in south-west england. air pollution is responsible for 40 000 deaths a year in the uk and 300 every year in the city of bristol, and the issue has not been taken seriously enough. during this process, we have witnessed the power of the car industry lobby and sadly we have seen conservative forces in this parliament working with them to water down the protections that citizens need. while this report represents a step in the right direction, we need to put citizens and their health first and demand that car manufacturers do not cheat the tests and cheat people of their health and their future.
mr president, a child is left on the steps of a church. the mother cannot afford it. a pensioner jumps from a high place, faced with a winter without winter fuel. this, honourable ladies and gentlemen, members of this parliament, is greece, as created by the eu and the euro. it is not about resources, it is about debt in the wrong currency. the greek debt is now 177% of gdp. it grows as the greek economy shrinks so it can never, ever, be paid off. instead, it grows larger. edinburgh is described as the athens of the north because of its classical architecture and its learning. nicola sturgeon wants to make this manifest and all too real. an independent scotland with an snp deficit of gbp 15 billion is bigger than that of greece. scotland would have to adopt the catastrophic euro and the consequent ‘austerity max’ greece has had to suffer. i weep for the people of greece, but sturgeon’s desire to emulate them beggars belief and will beggar scotland.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking all my shadow rapporteurs for their excellent support and cooperation including, of course, mr liese, the rapporteur on ivd. my thanks to the commission and the council, and i would also like to thank the luxembourg – and, in particular – dutch presidencies for their determination to get the council agreement that we have today. we have put in place strong, clear rules for the whole life—cycle of devices, from design and manufacture through clinical testing and authorisation to vigilance and market surveillance, giving manufacturers legal certainty about what they have to do. protecting patients is at the heart of this legislation. we all remember the scandals of the past. i have heard from women whose lives have been turned upside down after having a pelvic mesh implant, women who are now living in constant pain. i have heard from women who are still not sure which breast implants they have had and whether they need to be worried about their future health. it just is not right that people have not got sufficient information about devices that have been used in their medical procedures. so in future all devices will be traceable with a unique device identification number and patients will receive an implant card with this number, so we will all know which device has been implanted in which patient. if there is a problem with the device, patients deserve to be compensated, so it is clear that manufacturers must have sufficient financial coverage to deal with their potential liability. we know that in the case of metal—on—metal hips there was little clarity for patients as to whether the problems were caused by the device or by the medical professionals treating them. when there is reason to believe a device has caused harm to a patient, information on that device must be made available to the patient and their doctor. to ensure patient safety in the future we must make sure devices are safe before they reach the market. all devices will undergo a thorough clinical evaluation before marketing, and parliament insisted that there should be additional scrutiny for the highest—risk devices. things such as implants, insulin pumps and pacemakers will be referred to an expert panel for additional assessment. parliament also argued for restrictions on hazardous substances used in medical devices. wherever possible, manufacturers will have to substitute materials that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction, and justify where this is not possible. notified bodies will still have responsibility for awarding a ce mark, but it is clear that these have to be up to the job. we have introduced strict new requirements for notified bodies, and they will be regularly inspected by member states. notified bodies will also have greater powers to carry out unannounced inspections and must inspect samples of all devices regularly. any problem should be picked up early and action taken straight away. while it is vital that we ensure devices are safe before they are placed on the market, it is also essential that they are carefully monitored afterwards. the new law will significantly strengthen requirements for post-market surveillance, including introducing periodic safety update reports similar to those that are now produced for medicines. finally, on reprocessing of single—use devices, this was one of the most difficult issues to get agreement on. for the member states it is a very sensitive issue. some wanted reprocessing to be banned entirely; others wanted no legislation at eu level. therefore, reprocessing will only be allowed if it is permitted under national law. those member states that want to ban it can do so. for those that allow it, there are eu-wide standards that must be complied with, including reprocessors assuming all the obligations of the manufacturers. colleagues, it has taken a long time and a lot of work to get to this point, so i hope you will support the final agreement as one which gives patients much more protection, while ensuring continued innovation.
mr president, can i give my congratulations and thanks to both of the rapporteurs and all of the teams. i have to say i admire your stamina. you are an example to us all. and so here we are at last. patient safety is of paramount importance and ensuring that this should always be so is our top priority. i am often one of the first to say that additional regulation can be burdensome, however when it comes to the realm of public health, especially when lives are in jeopardy and the safety of our healthcare system is questioned, tighter oversight and control mechanisms are vital. indeed, in the wake of the breast implant and metal—on—metal hip scandals of 2012, it is now more important than ever that patient confidence be restored. i firmly believe that support for these proposals is warranted. with the introduction of more systematic post-market checks, as well as stricter monitoring and traceability measures, these proposals create a framework whereby errors are more easily identifiable, allowing for more targeted and efficient responses and minimising any negative fallout. while focusing on consumer safety, i would also acknowledge the importance of innovation, and these proposals do exactly that. so i think you have got the balance right, and i will be very happy to vote for this tomorrow.
mr president, the role of medical devices in the uk, as well as in europe, is of exceptional importance, and the medical devices sector plays a fundamental role in the diagnosis, prevention, monitoring and treatment of diseases. i share the concern about this issue with the rapporteur and the european commission, and recognise that disgraceful things have happened in the past, where women having breast augmentation procedures were given poly implant prostheses (pips) containing industrial silicone. although i agree with the objectives of this report, which aims to influence the manufacturers at the site of production, as well as to increase transparency in instances where patients have had an adverse reaction to a medical device and are searching for information, i believe, however, that member states are best placed to act in this field. my party and i believe that this is an issue best dealt with by national parliaments, therefore avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you all for your support and comments. the medical devices industry is hugely important in the eu, with over 25 000 companies employing almost 600 000 people. that is a lot of people. throughout our work on this legislation, we had in mind that we needed stronger rules to improve device safety and protect patients without stifling the innovation that is a key feature of the industry in europe. i believe the agreement that we have reached strikes the right balance. this will strengthen requirements for medical devices, and require high-risk devices to undergo additional pre-market assessment. stricter rules on post-market surveillance will also ensure a faster response if there is a problem with a device and a new id system will improve traceability. it is clear that member states will have to cooperate and share information, and the new eu-wide database eudamed will help them do that. and importantly, patients will have more information on the devices they use or are treated with. unfortunately, we cannot go back in time and prevent past scandals from happening, but with this legislation, we can make them much less likely in the future. patients rightly expect that if a device has been placed on the market, then it must be safe. but unfortunately this has not always been the case. we have a responsibility to make sure that patients can have confidence in the medical devices industry and i firmly believe that this is what the agreement we will be voting for this week will do. once again, thank you to everyone who has helped us to get to this stage, and again in particular to all of our staff and the group staff, who have worked their socks off on this. i hope we have strong support in the vote tomorrow, because at the end of the day, this is about the safety of patients across the eu, and nothing can be more important than that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in 2015 over one million people arrived on europe’s shores by irregular means. these people have fled war, famine, repressive dictatorships, economic hardship or a mixture of all of those combined. their arrival has clearly sparked a huge debate in our societies as to where it is right to draw the line between compassion to those seeking a better life versus our actual political and financial capabilities to provide such relief. i am convinced personally that, in many respects, the geneva convention is ill—suited to the modern globalised world, and that reform is vital if we are to maintain support for its key tenets of providing temporary safe haven to those most in need. rather than seeking to offer opportunities to the few that reach europe, the majority is better served by support for economic and political developments in the countries that they are leaving. the valletta action plan recognises this and i welcome the eeas’s efforts to support state—building and development goals. furthermore, its efforts to secure readmission agreements with third countries like turkey, and support for the csdp naval operation sophia mediterranean against people smugglers, are also very welcome, to stop illegal migration to europe. europe’s neighbours are seeing a rapid population increase, a lack of job creation and, in africa in particular, are increasingly troubled by future effects of climate change. clearly more needs to be done to defend europe’s external borders, but we cannot ignore, nor insulate ourselves from, the reasons that are pushing people to leave their homes in the first place.
madam president, when regulated correctly, migration assists a nation’s economic standing. when there is no proper control, many question the sustainability of a system that effectively hinders the low-paid through the suppression of wages in the unskilled labour market. the 2004 enlargement of the european union was that catalyst. honesty must now prevail. free movement has proved to be a failure for many, with the blame falling firmly at the feet of those still trying to enforce this ideal. moving onto this report, it condemns the restrictions and prohibitions on persons leaving or returning that are imposed in certain states – even if that person is a jihadist returning from syria. seriously? in addition, it calls on national governments and parliaments to abolish punitive legal frameworks that treat migration as an offence. madam president, it must be for national governments to have the right to put their own migration policies in place, not the european union.
blue-card question. – mr mcallister, my fellow countryman – or at least half of you is – may i just say that the problem is that, when ms merkel invites any number of people to come to europe without let or hindrance, it is all very well for germany, but this affects germany’s neighbours, especially great britain, and this is something that is a problem. so if you have your schengen, and you have open door immigration from goodness knows where, we could end up with lots of jihadis and a lot of people we cannot house or have schools or hospitals for.
madam president, this reports seeks to paint any criticism of the failed and discredited policy of mass migration as xenophobic or racist or any of the smorgasbord of buzzwords the elitist european political class uses to shut down reasoned debate. further, it attempts to herd nation states into a european bouillabaisse. nations will lose all control over migration, borders and economic policies. listen to the individual peoples of europe who want to retain the fascination of their individual cultures, that which makes europe interesting. herr mayer, my colleague from austria, wears lederhosen and i wear a kilt. it is a charming thing about europe: difference. the people demand an end to open borders. they demand an end to the use of migration to keep big business happy and workers insecure, and they demand an end to the eu wasting their taxes on foreign aid, which only perpetuates inequalities in world trade and props up dictatorships and unstable regimes.
mr president, i am descended from french huguenots who fled persecution in 1685 to seek refuge in a welcoming britain, introducing the very word ‘refugee’ into our vocabulary. today, whether fleeing conflict, famine or climate chaos, no one wants to risk their lives at sea or on land in search of safety and stability. therefore, i would like to congratulate everyone who has worked on this report. it offers a truly comprehensive and holistic strategy for dealing with the needs of refugees coming to europe. we need to work simultaneously at all levels. we need international cooperation to tackle root causes and combat the horrific human rights abuses perpetrated by smugglers en—route. we need to establish safe routes of travel and humane living conditions for refugees, taking into account women and girls, children and other groups. we need to work at home against the nationalist, xenophobic and racists discourse we have seen on the rise. we need to celebrate the cultural richness that refugees and migrants bring with them and provoke a truly compassionate, empathetic debate. that is the standard we must hold our governments to.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, these reports are a massive obfuscation, confusion and sleight-of-hand manoeuvring which would not be out of place in a logic puzzle book. of course we want to pay off debts as quickly as possible, but this is just an accounting ruse to spend more taxpayers’ money in the coming years. and then, incredibly, in the other report we are finding more ways to move money outside of eu budgetary ceilings so that we can spend even more taxpayers’ money next year. and then for the first time ever they do not even schedule a debate on the report on parliament’s proposed expenditure for 2018, which includes british taxpayers paying for things that we will never see the benefit of, but of course the eu will never mention that in their divorce bill. this whole knotted mess is not unravelable, so let us take a sword to this gordian knot.
mr president, the frequently unspoken truth about the eu budget is that it is put to very good use. it is used to support the lives of citizens across europe. my part in this review has been to focus on the horizon 2020 programme which funds cutting-edge scientific research and facilitates the largest research area in the world, and to focus on cef, the connecting europe facility, which develops better digital, transport and energy connections for eu citizens, the arteries of our modern world. as our world gets smaller, our challenges get larger. it is essential that we work together to find ways to protect and enhance citizens’ lives. the budget funds research into rare diseases, into cancers, into new energy sources – our future world will be shaped by this funding. it is developing space technologies, graphene and quantum computing. the great minds of our continent value this collaboration. beyond this, the revision focuses on the responsibility we have regarding the refugee crisis. recognising it benefits all of us to support the member states who are doing most to fulfil our international and moral obligations and responsibilities to protect refugees and to police europe’s borders. this revision recognises these issues. it is long overdue for us to restate the fundamental principle that we are better, stronger and more effective when we work together. that does not just apply to individual citizens; it applies to regions and it applies to countries, and the eu is the embodiment of this.
rapporteur. – mr president, 1 310 is the number of days between the publication of the proposal on the money market funds regulation and when we will actually have the final vote on this matter – tomorrow. this must be close to a record: money market funds (mmfs) have been held up for more than three years and four council presidencies, because it is one of the most contentious and complex pieces of legislation we have ever dealt with. it has been a long journey, but i am delighted we have reached the right destination, an overall agreement between parliament and the council. i believe this is a win-win, both for the european money market fund sector and for the european taxpayer, who will be better protected. with assets under management of around eur 1 trillion, mmfs are an important source of short-term financing for financial institutions, corporations and governments. in europe, around 22% of short-term debt securities issued by governments or by the corporate sector are held by mmfs. money market funds hold 38% of the short debt issued by the banking sector. because of the systemic inter-connectedness between mmfs, the banking sector and corporate and government finance, their operation has been at the core of international work on shadow banking. as a result, mmfs have been scrutinised by various regulators and supervisors. indeed, the financial crisis of 2007-2008 showed that mmfs can be vulnerable to shocks and may even spread or amplify risks. this can fuel an investor run and liquidity crisis, foreign mmfs potentially triggering negative effects on other parts of the financial system. the agreement we have reached under the slovak presidency that we will vote on tomorrow addresses these systemic concerns, in particular through the following measures: liquidity and diversification requirements are strengthened, with strict daily and weekly liquidity requirements to fulfil potential redemption requests, and furthermore, the mmf portfolio will be more diversified, with stringent concentration requirements to reduce risks; assets in which mmfs can invest, including government debt, have been more strictly regulated; sponsored support to these funds is forbidden, to avoid any contagion risk; we have addressed provisions for transparency in more detail; a review clause for government cnavs has been introduced; after five years, the commission will report on the feasibility of establishing an 80% eu public debt quota; the report will look at the availability of short—term eu public debt instruments... i could go on – a stringent regime of fees and gates in the case of shortfalls in liquidity will address the question of run risk, and we will limit the use of the amortised accounting method for the valuation of assets. i am particularly pleased that, apart from existing mmf models, a viable operation model for lvnav mmfs has been introduced at parliament’s initiative, and i believe that the run risk compared to the cnav is significantly lower. the lvnav cannot deviate by more than 20 points from the nav and is far stricter than 50 basis points. this is a compromise, and i prefer a compromise which regulates the sector over no agreement and leaving an unregulated mmf sector, and it is in line with the international commitments we have made. colleagues, politics is a team sport, and you cannot make agreements in isolation. let me therefore say a word of thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, brian hayes, petr ježek, syed kamall, eva joly and fabio de masi, and to the president of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, roberto gualtieri, for his political support and to kamil sasko, who led the negotiations on behalf of the council. i would also like to thank the econ secretariat and the s&d secretariat and the policy advisers. i believe this agreement is an important step forward in ensuring the long—term stability of our financial markets. the eu has been lagging behind, as i have said, on international commitments that we have, which the us already implemented 18 months ago. i hope, colleagues, i can rely on your overwhelming support tomorrow and that would send a clear signal and a welcome political signal that we are capable of adopting a strong, harmonised, regulatory framework ensuring financial stability and that investors get well protected all over the eu.
rapporteur. – mr president, vice-president dombrovskis, thank you for your words and also for the constructive engagement we had with the commission throughout these negotiations, and particularly to our friend tilman over there in terms of finding the eventual solution. i would just like to take this opportunity to speak to colleagues who have been, let us say, less than optimistic about this, especially the ones in the greens and gue/ngl who were involved at every level in these negotiations, but did not always apply themselves or come up with any concrete alternative way forward. the only way forward was to go back and suggest that we stick with a proposal that could not actually get any kind of agreement in parliament itself. i think it is important that we recognise that the way we could move forward was to find some kind of compromise, and compromises are difficult, they do not tick all the boxes, but they do mean that we find a solution that basically works for most parts of the sector. i do believe we have some strong improvements in the proposal that we are going to vote on tomorrow, which many of my colleagues have highlighted and mentioned and i will not repeat them, but i hope that tomorrow we will vote for this in a big way, because it is important that the european parliament can demonstrate that we are able to overcome our differences within this house, and we are not just a replica of the council. we make that judgment to ensure that a money market fund sector can thrive and meet many of our objectives either in the capital markets union that the commission has set itself, or through making sure that we do not have any recourse to the taxpayer in future. once again i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and my coordinator here, for making sure we have final agreement on this.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, petr ježek, on this report. for me and my group it fulfils many of our priorities: reducing legal costs and red tape, reducing fragmentation of practices amongst member states, unlocking liquidity from institutional investors, harmonising investor protection rules and avoiding a race to the bottom across member states. a key proposal that my group was instrumental in getting agreed is the proposal of the sme growth prospectus, which means that smes in the eu will be able to use one standard harmonised document to raise capital, a major step forward compared to the current system. based on this simple document, smes will be able to follow an easy process to raise funds across the eu. importantly, this legislation will also allow for crowdfunding and other new forms of financing to develop european capital markets. prospectuses are a gateway to the capital markets. however, it is also vital that issuers based in third countries can continue to access eu capital markets. to enable the capital markets union (cmu) to be a success, non—eu member states should be able to invest. critically, given the impending departure of the uk, it could be detrimental to availability of capital for smes, given that the uk accounts for 60% of the eu capital markets business. this is a serious consequence and cmu is in danger of becoming cmu-lite in terms of delivering jobs and growth in the future of the eu 27. therefore prospectuses approved by non-eu countries fulfilling equivalence requirements could be used in the future in the eu.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it may have taken nine months – a pretty full gestation – but be in no doubt that last wednesday was a great historic day when the united kingdom announced that we were going to become an independent, self-governing, democratic nation once again, an act that has been cheered by hundreds of millions of people all over the world. we have had a little history lesson this morning from mr verhofstadt, but he made one mistake. in 1973, sir, we did not join the european union; we joined the european economic community. had the british people known that it was the intention to get political and take away our ability to govern ourselves, we never would have done so. i am sorry to say that the response to the triggering of article 50 has been all too predictable. already you have made a series of demands that are not just unreasonable, but, in some cases, clearly impossible for britain to comply with. you began by telling us that we have to pay a bill: a cool gbp 52 billion, a figure that has clearly been plucked out of the air, which is effectively a form of ransom demand. what you could have acknowledged is that we put over gbp 200 billion net into this project. we are actually shareholders in this building and the rest of the assets and really you should be making us an offer we cannot refuse, to go. the ever-charming mr verhofstadt, parliament’s chief negotiator, in his resolution that we are to vote on later today, tells us that we cannot discuss potential trade deals with anybody else in the world until we have left the european union. that has no basis in treaty law whatsoever. it is rather like saying you cannot guarantee yourself a dwelling for when you leave prison and i trust the british government will completely ignore you. i suspect that mr tusk, who is not with us today, is still crying. he looked pretty tearful, did he not, after the british ambassador delivered the letter last week? he tells us in his memorandum that any future trade deal must ensure that the united kingdom is not allowed to have a competitive advantage. this is all impossible. add to that the hypocrisy of saying, on the one hand, that the eu will negotiate as one, and clause 22 of the tusk document which says that the spanish can have a total veto over the whole trade deal if they are not happy with the sovereignty of gibraltar. we believe in national self-determination. your aim and ambition is to destroy nation state democracy. gibraltar is clearly a deal-breaker on current terms. with these demands, you have shown yourselves to be vindictive, to be nasty, and all i can say is thank goodness we are leaving. you are behaving like the mafia. you think we are a hostage, we are not, we are free to go, and 85... i know and i do understand ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i do understand national sensitivities. i will change it to gangsters. all right? and that is how we are being treated. we are being given a ransom note. (noisy interjections from the floor)what must be very difficult for all of you to get into your minds is that there is a bigger world out there than the european union. 85% of the global economy is outside the european union. if you wish to have no deal, if you wish to force us to walk away from the table, it is not us that will be hurt. do you know, we do not have to buy german motor cars, we do not have to drink french wine, we do not have to eat belgian chocolate. there are a lot of other people that will give that to us. a return to tariffs will risk the jobs of hundreds of thousands of people living in the european union, and yet what you are saying is you want to put the interests of the european union above that of your citizens and your companies. if you continue with that route it won’t just be the united kingdom that triggers article 50. there will be many more to come. (applause from the efdd group)
mr president, as brexit negotiations begin, it is a joy to watch the towering masters in the art of eu diplomacy in full flow here today. those like mr weber, whose bellicose, threatening and theatrical words no doubt entertain this chamber but are like a pen with no point in the negotiating rooms. he said on his recent tour of the british media that politicians who fought for brexit were allowed to grow up in a free europe, and that the uk should now pay more. well, mr weber, may i remind you that the freedom that you say you promote came at a mighty cost to britain. it came in the blood and sacrifice of millions of britons those who, like my grandfather, when asked unhesitatingly fought in the sands of africa so europe can be free. it came in the 120 billion it cost britain to fight a german dictator, it came in the 5 trillion britain contributed to nato to help build a shield of freedom around europe from communism. it came on the 500 billion or more we have contributed to the eu and the billions more we spend each day more than we receive. mr weber, on radio 4 you asked ‘mrs may, please tell me what leaving the eu means?’ well, i will tell you. it means we are leaving the european union that has forgotten the costs and sacrifices britons freely gave to ensure you are free to exercise your diplomacy of the defeated in this chamber of the forgetful.
mr president, last week prime minister may triggered article 50. in doing so she gave effect to the democratic decision of the british people to leave the european union. i want members to see today as a beginning and not an end. it is the start of a new relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. although we will be leaving the eu, we want to forge a deep and special partnership with our friends and allies in europe. the negotiations that follow will be difficult at times, and you will sometimes hear an angry voice. i hope that colleagues here will focus on the outcome we seek and not the process we undertake, because we all need a good agreement, rather than a good fight. this parliament has a role to play in ensuring we protect our citizens. i want the rights of all eu citizens in the uk and all british citizens in the eu to be guaranteed. i want britain’s borders with the eu to be as invisible as possible, to allow as much trade as possible. i want us to respect the right of self-determination. the sovereignty of gibraltar is not part of these negotiations. my group was disappointed that mr verhofstadt felt he could only consult on the draft text with a few close political friends. we also regret that he ignored so much good work by the parliament’s committees. perhaps it was inconvenient. we hope in future we can work with you in the same good faith and full transparency that you request in your motion. as we look to the future, it is in the interests of all our citizens that we reach a comprehensive agreement between britain and the eu. we see no reason to delay any aspect of any of these talks. so let us go forward together and reach that deep and special partnership that will benefit all our nations.
mr president, the lies and blatant mistruths of the referendum campaign are crumbling before our eyes. they told us food prices would not rise. they have. they told us businesses would not move abroad. they are. they told us we were scaremongering. we were not. sixteen million brits did not say they wanted to leave the european family. those who did will not be fooled again by false promises from nationalists this month of may the british people will send a message to mrs may in local elections and the westminster seat of manchester gorton. that message reads loud and clear: you lied to us. we are angry, and we want our country back. it belongs inside the european union. as a liberal democrat, i will continue to fight against brexit, and to give the people a final say on the deal. i am proud of this house, uniting with a positive but firm resolution. it is fair, it is just, and it is very european. and if the deal goes badly, the british people will welcome the chance to revoke brexit and article 50, and vote to remain.
madam president, today in this chamber the influence of the late martin mcguinness is present. he met with virtually every signatory of the joint resolution, and he asked three things from this house: one, that you preserve the good friday agreement in all its part; two, that there would be no hardening of the irish border; and three, that the unique circumstances and special status of ireland would be supported. in his memory, we thank you for this. this is why we associate ourselves with this resolution. we feel that the european parliament is a partner to the people of the north of ireland and particularly those living across the partitioned border areas, north and south. no other mep understands the disaster of partition better than mep matt carthy. despite the fact that we support the joint resolution, we all have to recognise that this is not the europe we want, or that the people need. we need an open and critical debate on the future of europe, something that the resolution also calls for. we need to engage the public in this debate. together we can shape a better europe, a more social europe, a democratic europe, a europe of equals. we have done our part, now it is the turn of the european council meeting on 29 april. to the european council i say: it is over to you. enda kenny, taoiseach, your day has come. now it is your time to stand up for the good friday agreement in all of its parts. irish citizens are depending on you. you must be the voice of the people, north and south. it is clear from this resolution that ireland has friends in europe. and i want to end with a quote from manfred weber, somebody i do not usually quote. he said that ‘if the uk tries to endanger the good friday agreement we will not give our support to an agreement on brexit’. neither will we, and neither should the taoiseach. so harness that support, enda, and stand up for ireland.
madam president, i think what we have witnessed over the past week has been the unedifying spectacle of posturing and veiled threats, from the ludicrous suggestion that we will be saddled with a gbp 50 billion divorce bill (although we are a net contributor to the eu budget) to the claim that no trade will be negotiated until the end of the article 50 process. this, i guarantee, would cause immense damage to the economies of the european union and would result in putting many of your citizens out of work. it is what we call, in the uk, cutting off your nose to spite your face. however, the most offensive position that you have taken is the proposal that spain will have the right to veto any brexit deal over the issue of gibraltar. i want to make it clear in this chamber today that the people of gibraltar are proudly british. in 2002, 99% of gibraltarians voted in a referendum against shared sovereignty with spain, and the wishes of the people should be upheld. i do, however, have a solution to prevent gibraltar being used as a pawn in brexit negotiations and, indeed, end spanish claims once and for all. make gibraltar a fully integrated part of the uk; give her and our other overseas territories their own member of parliament. give gibraltar real influence and a voice in westminster and send a clear message that gibraltar is not for sale. in this area, we, the uk, can learn from our continental cousins, because the french give representation to their overseas territories, and i propose that we should too. i have been calling for this for many, many years, and with the unique opportunities that brexit has given us, i believe it is an idea whose time has come.
madam president, i know what a divorce is like. i came through one and you will too. both parties seek to damage each other and the kids and blame each other. you know, the kids and the bank accounts get damaged. but my ex-partner: you will recover. your hate will lessen, but you will need a bit of counselling along the way. jean-claude: get off the booze! donald is in denial. he is in depression, trying to claim gibraltar as his own, as so often happens when you are splitting the divorce assets. then you appoint a crack team of negotiators, only to find you have got mrs malmström in there, and that she is not a trade negotiator at all. she is a sociology lecturer. guy, you sent in your army, you sent in your barmy army for the one spanish armada that is left to you to retake gibraltar. but it didn’t happen. and northern ireland – the only way that the good friday peace agreement is going to fail is if you start bombing us again. and one party thinks you owe them a bonus and an income for life just because they are injured. but our bill to you is gbp one trillion of contributions. that has been the amount of money that we have paid into this place. you failed us, so we want that back. so it is not going very well. but d’you know what, we don’t want to damage you, we don’t want to damage the kids and your finances. so let’s complete a free trade agreement, because if not, our friends at the world trade organization are looking jolly nice and very attractive, and i am not seeking an affair in this divorce but a partner for life, and i think that is where we are heading.
madam president, the triggering of article 50 was a good day for democracy in the united kingdom. the prime minister upheld the democratic result of the referendum, when the uk voted decisively to leave the european union last june. however, i respect that for many in this place there is genuine disappointment, maybe some sadness and even some anger. in the negotiation to come, on all sides emotion must be tempered by a practical and positive willingness to find common ground. we have an opportunity to write a new chapter on cooperation in trade, security and prosperity. whilst i have many difficulties with the text – not least on phasing, on finance, on trade, and on gibraltar – i am pleased that this resolution does recognise northern ireland’s unique position in respect of the land border with the republic of ireland. both the united kingdom and irish governments have said there will be no return to a hard border. the council’s draft guidelines pledge a flexible and imaginative approach. all of these commitments are welcome. however, any solution must also respect that northern ireland will be an integral part of an independent united kingdom. i hear – and appreciate – support for the peace process in this house. the greatest support for the process will come from stable government, and my party pledges to work hard to ensure that in this, and in the outcome of brexit, we will represent the best interests of northern ireland.
madam president, i campaigned for the european union as a peace project and a beacon for democracy and human rights. the journey towards brexit is proving how powerful the union has been in this civilising mission and how flimsy these basic freedoms seem without european support. the vote for brexit has been hijacked to build an ugly coalition to undermine our civilised society. within a week of triggering article 50, we have a senior conservative threatening war against a european country. this is sadly symbolic of the loss of commitment to peace and to basic standards of diplomacy, to say nothing of friendship and loyalty. i represent the people of gibraltar and i will fight for their right to self—determination. they value being british citizens – as i do – because britain is a country of decency and democracy. what value a british passport if the prime minister can change fundamental legislation without reference to parliament? what value a proud history if our future allies will be despots? what value international respect if it is squandered for narrow economic advantage? (applause)
madam president, the statements today by europhile party political leaders were everything i had anticipated and feared: total misrepresentation of facts and issues by the socialists and the epp group, and misleading interpretation of history, uk economics and eu evolution by the liberal democrats, all allowed to pass uncorrected. this morning has seen political theatre, histrionics and political opportunism at full throttle by the europhiles, and all because the united kingdom has chosen to leave the european union. well, i suggest we get real and start adopting grown-up politics because there is a serious leg of negotiations ahead of us and we do not need to see yet more project threat, revenge and penalty from the likes of mr juncker, mr barnier and mr verhofstadt. that is not helpful, and all it does is pander to a press which at the moment is misrepresenting both the eu position and the united kingdom position. i do not feel that is helpful. so please can i ask everybody to calm down and be calm, and get on with it.
madam president, i was elected to represent the welsh national interest, and that is what i will continue to do. the people of wales have the democratic right to decide on their own future, and that includes the kind of eu withdrawal that takes place and the way that it affects our nation. the devolved administrations of the uk, including wales, should be involved at every stage of the negotiations. i do not accept that the interests of wales can be ignored by the uk government, but that is exactly what is happening, despite the publication of the white paper ‘securing wales’ future,’ produced by plaid cymru and the welsh government. it is a comprehensive and constructive plan, which includes our continuing participation in the single market, which is a top priority for our economy and our communities. i see wales’ potential as a successful nation. we have a lot to contribute to this process and to build in the future, and our voice must be heard.
madam president, last june i toured my constituency, day in and day out, making clear my concerns about the dangers of britain leaving the eu – dangers for our economy and british businesses, and the threat to the jobs they create; dangers for british workers, as the tory right clamour to use brexit to spark a bonfire of eu workers’ rights; dangers for british and eu citizens, with our cooperation on issues like counter-terrorism and security linked to our eu membership. we lost the eu referendum, and while it saddens me to say it, britain is leaving the eu – but those dangers are still there. in all our countries, there are families for whom the brexit vote has created worrying uncertainty – millions of people concerned about their rights to live and work in countries they have made home. citizens across europe are now at risk of the economic consequences of a bad deal – or even worse, no deal at all – and people in all 28 countries will suffer if brexit means competition on low wages, lax environmental standards and scaled back rights for workers and consumers. these are the people we represent, and these are the people to whom this parliament must give a voice. it will not always be easy to take the responsible path in the coming months, but it is what we must do. there are some in this house and beyond who are actively hoping to plunge europe and britain into chaos through a disorderly no-deal brexit. why? because they have no answers to the questions that constructive negotiations will bring. so let us work for a constructive deal. and to those leave campaigners who now sit in the british cabinet or on the benches opposite – there is still one of them there, i can see – you won. now take responsibility for the promises you made. as we all consider how we conduct ourselves over the coming weeks, let us remember that we are here representing people whose lives and livelihoods depend on the outcome. serious times call for a serious response. (applause)
madam president, as a scottish european i have long wondered how i would feel today. the answer is, i am heartbroken, not for myself, but for the people i serve, for future generations. scotland will not be silent within this process, as our rights are taken away by an administration we do not support, by a vote that we clearly rejected and a process that is demonstrably against our interests. while being heartbroken, i am also angry. i am angry at this process, and i am angry at the way the uk is representing itself, doing a bad thing badly. mrs may and nigel farage do not speak for scotland, do not speak for me, and do not speak for 48% of the uk’s population. the uk is not one bloc, much as mrs may would like it to be; the uk is a complicated set of various interests, all of which are better reflected in this resolution than in anything the uk government has put forward to date. scotland will not be silent in this process, and scotland’s top priority, in the words of our first minister nicola sturgeon, is to keep our citizens safe. scotland is your home, you are welcome here. i appreciate that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed but please, colleagues, let us make our citizens feel safe, our citizens from the uk in other countries, and citizens from other nations in ours. let’s deal with that first, let’s deal with that fast and let’s deal with it now.
madam president, i do not want to dwell on the past today, but rather to look to the future. we all need to come together with a plan that works for everyone and build a good foundation for our future relationships with the european union. for the sake of all our people, the united kingdom and the european union need to work together as strong allies and close friends when we leave. europe has been a strong friend to northern ireland and gave us strong support during our darkest days. i am confident that friendship will continue. i welcome the fact that all sides want a frictionless border. however, we all know that finding a solution will require a lot of innovative thinking. any solution must not diminish northern ireland’s place as an integral part of the united kingdom, as enshrined in the principle of consent in the belfast agreement. and can i make it clear to you, mr barnier, that i will not accept a hard border. i will also not accept an internal uk border. i would also urge eu leaders not to heed those who are merely using brexit as an excuse to break up the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland. let me also say to you very clearly – and i hope your are listening, mr barnier, and not twiddling with your telephone as you seem to be doing; i would suggest, with the greatest respect, that you actually listen to the speech – that dublin does not speak for belfast. we will take care of ourselves.
madam president, in september 2014 i voted to keep scotland in the united kingdom union and in june 2016 i voted to keep the uk in the european union. today, i face the reality that brexit will remove my country from one union and leave the other union hanging by a thread. scotland voted overwhelmingly to remain in the european union. edinburgh, a city i have represented in this house for 33 years, voted 75%-25% to remain in the european union. the overwhelming feeling in scotland is that we are being dragged out of the european union against our will, a feeling only compounded by ms may’s determination to pursue a hard brexit for which she has no mandate. the resolution we are about to vote on recognises this fact, but provides no solution. the council document calls for a flexible and imaginative solution to be found for ireland. i, of course, agree, but i think the same should also apply to scotland. the scottish government has put forward a bespoke proposal for scotland, which i think deserves serious attention in this house. in conclusion, i want to say that if the uk does not show flexibility in these talks it will not only be the uk leaving the european union, but the uk will not exist any longer.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i keep hearing what a positive project the european union is. article 8 of your beloved treaty says ‘the union shall develop a special relationship with neighbouring countries’ in a spirit of ‘good neighbourliness’. well i get that, i understand that, i am with that, that makes a lot of sense. so why, if that is the case, would mr tusk have written clause 22 in his memorandum giving the spanish a veto over the future of gibraltar when everyone knows that the spanish are antagonistic towards the wishes of the people of the rock? and why, monsieur barnier, in a spirit of ‘good neighbourliness’, would you have plucked this bizarre figure of gbp 52 billion out of the air that you say is our final settlement payment? remember one thing. from the moment we voted brexit to the moment we leave, we will have put gbp 30 billion net into this european union, and you want another 50. it just does not work. for any negotiation in life to work both sides stake out a position. both sides ask for more than they realistically expect to get. i understand that, but you have gone so far with this that it is just impossible for us to see any accommodation. i think there needs to be give and take on both sides, and i think if you gave on the money and you gave on gibraltar, then what i would like to see the united kingdom government doing is saying there are 3.3 million eu citizens living in the uk, they all came to britain legally and we will now unilaterally guarantee their rights for the future. both sides need to give on this for any sensible deal to come out of it. we can walk away without a deal, it will hurt european workers and european companies more than us, but surely it makes sense for both of us to come to a sensible accommodation.
mr president, i would like to raise a point of order under article 11.2 about this morning’s debate. calling other colleagues members of the mafia or gangsters does not show mutual respect, does not represent the views of the vast majority of the british people, and is not the view of the british prime minister, who wants to remain friends, allies and partners. (loud applause)
mr president, there has been a lot of confusion in this house this morning, talking about british aggression over gibraltar. can i just remind colleagues across parliament that it was actually spain that sent one of their warships into gibraltarian waters.
rapporteur. – mr president, because this is a second reading we only have votes on the amendments. this deal has been a long time in the making: it has taken at least five years to get to this point, so i am pleased to have strong support across parliament. this is about ensuring patients’ safety and encouraging innovation. it is sad for me that the right of this house has chosen not to support something that improves patient safety and benefits patients right across the eu. shame on you.
mr president, although we had reservations on one or two points in this resolution, labour meps voted in favour of this resolution, which provides more clarity and realism on the issues facing us than does the position of the british government. the british government still has not said what it wants on many of the key issues that will be coming up in this mother of all divorce cases, but it has said that it wants exactly the same benefits as britain currently has as a member of the single market. well, we will hold them to account on that, but it does seem, generally, that the british government is intent on testing to destruction the theory that you can have your cake and eat it. when it becomes clear that that is not possible, then there will be a question as to what happens next. what should britain do if the outcome of this brexit process is damaging, costly and dangerous to britain? that is why i am glad that this resolution confirms that it is possible for article 50 notifications to be withdrawn and revoked. we may need it.
mr president, today is the day when even theresa may has started to acknowledge the reality of where we are. the empty nationalistic rhetoric and flag—waving that characterised the debate last year, and again in the last week, has always resulted in damaging our interests. it angers me that people wrap themselves in the british and gibraltarian flags when they had actively worked against the interests of citizens of both places. we are about to enter detailed negotiations with our friends about the future of our country. it is time to settle down to serious politics, recognising through the process that we have lost some of our sovereignty, and focus on ensuring that eventually we will reach a deal that works for the citizens of the uk and gibraltar, as well as our european colleagues.
mr president, the rock does not belong to the united kingdom or spain, but to the people of gibraltar, and the people of gibraltar have decided that their future must continue with the united kingdom: in a referendum in 2002, they voted to remain british. the result was 99%. there's nothing more to discuss. the rock remains with the united kingdom, just as ceuta and melilla remain with spain. the inclusion of gibraltar in the guidelines for the brexit negotiations is a threat without reason. the european union talks a lot about democracy, but these words are worthless.
mr president, the two—year negotiations for leaving the eu have now started, and i was appalled by the name—calling and jeering in this chamber earlier from ukip colleagues. it does not represent the views of the vast majority of the british people or the views of colleagues across this chamber. real people’s lives, jobs and future are at stake, and we need amicable solutions. there is a huge amount of work to be done on our future relationship. i do think this resolution could have done a lot more on that future relationship and set the tone on some of the detailed discussions that we need to go ahead. it is time to roll up our sleeves, colleagues, and help to find those solutions. i am ready to work with anyone across europe who wants to achieve amicable negotiations and that long-term partnership.
mr president, the british problem – or obviously from a uk perspective, the european problem – is very simply stated. britain wanted to be part of a common market, not a common government. guy verhofstadt expressed some of the reasons very well in his speech this morning: the fundamental difference between a bottom-up common law system and the napoleonic system on the continent. it is not an argument that applies everywhere, but our economic cycle has always been atlantic rather than european; our outlook has always been maritime rather than continental. in the talks at the beginning of last year, david cameron tried to get a looser a deal from the inside. the other member states decided that that was not a concession they were prepared to make, which is absolutely fine. we are therefore going to seek it from the outside. what should be the framework of that deal? i think a good model is canada’s relations with the united states. canada has, on its doorstep, a political union; it is not part of that union, but it enjoys the closest military security, economic and commercial links with that union compatible with being a sovereign state. you will lose a bad tenant, and you will gain a good neighbour.
mr president, i voted against parliament’s draft resolution on brexit this afternoon. from the outset, i do welcome the fact that the text recognises northern ireland’s unique position in respect of our land border with the republic of ireland. this builds on existing commitments by both the uk and irish governments, and indeed the european council, to give these challenges priority and adopt a flexible and imaginative approach. however, i cannot neglect the fact that this resolution would severely limit what can be achieved in the talks ahead. it would prevent the uk from opening trade talks with non—eu countries before 2019. it would take future trade relations with the eu off the table for the next two years, and it would tie the uk into paying an endless and excessive divorce bill well after it leaves. these are restrictions that would affect taxpayers in northern ireland very directly. they would also prevent local firms from accessing new markets and from exporting goods and services in the short to medium term. so while the text is cognisant of the needs of northern ireland, the resolution is not conducive.
mr president, i represent wales, which is a nation in the united kingdom which voted to leave the eu. a week ago today, the prime minister triggered article 50, formally beginning the uk-eu brexit negotiation process. it was an historic day. after legal challenges, lengthy delays and threats, we will be leaving the eu, and become an independent, self-governing and democratic country once again. this parliament is calling for unreasonable demands, some of which are going to be impossible to meet. the commission is meeting a gbp 52 million divorce bill. can i just ask this: do you actually want a brexit deal? the people of wales and britain voted to leave the eu, not europe. we still want to be your friends and trading partners, but if you are not going to make us any sensible offers, we will take our business elsewhere. the eu only represents 15% of the global economy. a new, global britain is going to see us become more forward-facing.
mr president, i want to pick that point up actually because of course the economies of northern ireland and the republic are inextricably linked, as of course is the peace process that was painstakingly negotiated over many, many years. there was a ukip amendment that tried to remove the competency of the european union in relation to the border issue. it said that the common travel area is not dependent on eu membership, and i was surprised to see that the tories supported it as well. yes, the common travel area predates the european union, but it was drawn up at a time when the immigration policies of the republic of ireland and the united kingdom were the same, and indeed the customs policies were broadly similar. it is the policy of the british government now, apparently, to tear those two regimes asunder. that does make the common travel area an issue to do with brexit as has been explained. it was not voted for by the people of northern ireland and it is an issue that the british government has to face up to its responsibilities on. it is not enough to simply wish this issue away. we need real political leadership and we need this to be addressed.
mr president, today, having seemingly learned from the hip replacement and breast implant scandals, the medical devices regulations have been updated. this should be welcomed. introduced are a concentration limit for 1b carcinogenic, mutagenic and repro—toxic substances (cmrs), and also for endocrine disrupting chemicals (edcs) in devices that include a benefit risk assessment of their presence as they are cmrs or edcs – lots of jargon there. such assessments would have to be updated within five years. i only wish it could have been more speedy than that. however, all changes to medical devices that increase patient safety and patient choice, without reducing their clinical effectiveness, are to be welcomed. i am 100% sure that in the post—brexit united kingdom these standards will be maintained in cooperation with our european union member state counterparts.
mr president, there is a battle being waged at the moment against hate speech, and, while gearing up to take part in this sounds laudable, without care the result can be, inadvertently or otherwise, censorship. it leads to questions about who determines what hate speech is. free speech is essentially accepting that people are free to say things we do like, not merely free to say things we do like. should these be offensive then they can be tackled by a forthright debate. indeed, debating ideas in a public forum makes it harder for those ideas to be formed as an individual insult, and a public debate provides the target of offence with a rebuttal. there is a quotation that is commonly attributed to voltaire: ‘i disapprove of what you say but i will defend to the death your right to say it’. that was in fact written by voltaire’s biographer, evelyn beatrice hall, and she was absolutely right.
mr president, we learned something from the european parliament’s reaction to article 50. this debate is on an eu response to all the things you try and associate with the brexit vote. if you genuinely want to build a better europe, how about this: stop what you are doing and think about why people voted the way they did. those you call ‘populists’ are patriots. we love our countries, we love our communities, we love living in nations where the people are the masters and, through democratic decisions, the people have the final say. what they hate is you lot imposing unfettered immigration that has transformed communities without the people’s say. they do not like seeing their streets changed without their approval. they do not like living in places that no longer resemble those they grew up in, and they know the eu is to blame. you can call us all the names you like, but it will not change the result. the majority of the british people voted to get our borders back, to get our democracy back, to get our country back and the sooner we are out of this place, the better.
mr president, i want to emphasise the social and citizenship aspects in this debate, in particular media literacy and digital participation within a safe internet. media literacy enable citizens to use and create media content effectively and safely. media-literate people are able to exercise more informed choices, understand the nature of content and services and take advantage of the full range of opportunities offered by communication technologies. media literacy and education for citizenship is not only important for learning about the tools, but also to encourage a shift in political cultures and practices so that individuals can be not only digital consumers and users but active citizens in connected societies. i remain very concerned by the lack of effective response to cyber bullying and discrimination online. consumers and citizens, in particular the most vulnerable, especially children, must be properly protected online. member states and the eu must work with internet providers and platforms in order to ensure that illegal and offensive content is effectively taken down and stays down.
mr president, we talk a lot at the moment of fake news, whether we think of trump’s tweets, putin’s control of the russian media or the false promises spread by some brexiteers during the uk’s eu referendum campaign. we might have a new word for this but it is plain, old-fashioned, populist propaganda, lies and half-truths, seeking to muddy the waters and twist reality for political gain. the internet, social media and 24-hour news cycles have made their job all too easy. fake news is not the only addition to the political lexicon in recent years though. ‘truthiness’, ‘post-fact’ and the use of ‘metropolitan liberal elites’ as a pejorative, are all part of a wider movement against expert opinion and reasoned analysis towards a world of half-truths where views and opinions are reported as facts. we must not underestimate the difficulty in counteracting these forces. trust in governments, politicians and traditional sources of media is low and they are deemed to be biased. indeed, the arguments put forth by official institutions, even very credible ones, to counteract fake news are derided as nothing more but the same thing: merely another opinion, a different point of view.
madam president, the proposed abolition of roaming charges for mobile phone users has become an icon of how slow and cumbersome the european union has become in its ability to make decisions. this agreement has taken 10 years. in part, progress has been made, but the fact that the telecommunications industry has such huge lobbying power in brussels has acted as a drag anchor on the progress that could have been made. what brings down prices is rarely legislation. that is why light-touch legislation around the world is so much more effective. what brings change is competition. if the european union had allowed for a truly free and competitive market then the charges would have been zeroed probably decades ago. as ever, the eu has drummed up regulations, and we have heard already from a number of previous speakers that all will happen is that income revenue for the companies will then be derived from charging domestic customers much, much more. this is hardly fair, it is hardly equitable. i think this ought to go back for review again by the committee to try to look at a more lighter-touch approach and one that is speedier in terms of delivery. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not think that you listened to the whole of my speech. the point that i made was that the lobbying power in brussels, which is actively encourage, actively interacted with by the european union, has proved to be a drag anchor. that was the critical point that i was making. i was also making the point that, across the world, a lighter touch in terms of regulation, one that does not involve trilogue: council, commission to the parliament and then back all the way round things, would not have achieved where we are. the point i am making, therefore, is let us just put together three components: stop the lobbying, stop the drag anchor and stop the trilogue.
madam president, once again the european union is abandoning free markets in favour of central planning. first we regulate retail prices, now we come back and regulate wholesale prices. will we never learn that regulatory intervention in market prices almost always produces unintended and perverse consequences? think of the empty shelves in the moscow gum department store when they tried to regulate prices. look at the ets scheme in europe that has failed for 10 years to deliver the sort of prices that the regulators want. several other speakers, including my group colleague mr borrelli, have remarked that operators will recover their lost revenue elsewhere, which will have a regressive effect. it is the european union’s cynical pursuit of any measure that looks vaguely like a benefit for voters or of generating any positive headline. be sure, this proposal that we are voting on today or tomorrow, will have unintended consequences which will come back and bite our ankles.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is almost a year since we last discussed venezuela in this house. given that at the time we had just witnessed the assassination of the opposition leader mavare, it is difficult to believe that a year on from that situation, the situation in venezuela is actually worse. national assembly elections held in december 2015 saw president maduro’s party lose to the opposition. however, this has led to little change, given maduro’s and his government’s efforts to block all of the national assembly’s initiatives. having initially been achieved by means of using the supreme court to strip the assembly of its power, maduro is now reverting to the far more conventional dictatorial tactics of arresting opposition politicians and sheer brutality. continuing to cling on to power in these circumstances is concerning, given the situation on the streets, and it is difficult to see that the current situation is tenable until the scheduled presidential elections in october of 2017. as venezuela’s economic model collapses, food shortages and street riots are becoming more frequent parts of everyday life. so therefore, early free and fair elections are clearly a must, and we should do all we can in the european union to support the democratic process before it becomes a total dictatorship.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, to be very clear, the purpose of this resolution is because we have a september evaluation. i really believe that the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs – and indeed other members who have expertise and interest in this extremely important topic – need to give their views to the commissioner. i do not see any problem with this. in fact, i think this is a positive and important part of our work. i want to begin with what you said about your trip to the united states. i think it is very important, commissioner, particularly for the civil liberties committee, that we have an interaction with you before we go to the united states in september. why are we doing this? why are we proposing this resolution? we are not doing it because there have not been significant and key improvements on safe harbor thanks to privacy shield, but because we want to ensure in parliament that privacy shield stands the test of time and that it does not have weaknesses that would be difficult for the future. we know that privacy shield protects the fundamental rights of anyone in the eu whose personal data is transferred to the united states, as well as bringing legal clarity for businesses relying on trans-atlantic data transfers, and we cannot allow that to fail. so the resolution acknowledges that the final agreement on the privacy shield, adopted in july 2016, has taken a number of parliament’s concerns into consideration. we know that key improvements have been made compared to the former safe harbor. we note also that the agreement will facilitate data transfers from the eu to the us, particularly from smes and business in the eu, and that the eu data protection authority’s supervisory powers remain unaffected by the adequacy decision, including the power of suspending or banning data transfers to us companies that are members of the privacy shield. we also take note of the clarifications and interpretations of the us administration, in particular as regards the processing of personal data by security agencies. however, several issues must be resolved. the resolution highlights issues of concern that remain unclear, particularly, for example, those made by the article 29 working party, which – as we all know – is deeply involved in these matters. these include concerns regarding the principle of data retention, the bulk collection of personal data for national security purposes, the need for sufficient judicial redress, and the effect of independent oversight, as well as several law enforcement issues. if these concerns are not taken into account, the privacy shield risks not achieving its purpose and could face further challenge in the courts. this is one of our deepest concerns. both citizens and businesses relying on transatlantic data flows need that certainty of a robust legal framework, and this text calls on the commission to conduct that proper assessment. it does not doubt that that will happen, but we are doing our job in ensuring that every part of this detail is covered. we will raise these concerns during our libe delegation with our us counterparts, and we are now experienced in these negotiations. the parliament has consistently called for a stronger agreement, following the invalidation of safe harbor in october 2015, and we now want the protection of personal data which meets the requirements of the charter of fundamental rights and the data protection legal framework. commissioner, today we are calling on you to conduct a proper assessment to ensure this legal certainty is provided for citizens and business alike. we in the parliament simply want to do our job. that is what the resolution is saying today.
madam president, last year some of us stood here and warned that the commission’s eu-us privacy shield agreement would not protect citizens’ privacy rights; and how right we were. the so-called ‘shield’ is an insult to citizens across europe whose privacy has been further undermined. the agreement allows the us intelligence to carry out mass surveillance and collect huge amounts of private data and bulk information indiscriminately. it allows us companies to collect data on individual citizens every time they go online, with no effective legal protection, and it is only voluntary. it only applies to companies that have signed up. the rest can run fancy free with our information. so this shambles breaches our fundamental privacy rights and it needs to be fixed. it needs to be fixed urgently with a robust, effective and enforceable system that protects the privacy rights of citizens, not the interest of spooks and big business. i would call on the commissioner to fix it before the european court of justice forces you to do so for a second time.
madam president, women’s rights and gender equality are under attack around the world, so now more than ever we must push to strengthen international cooperation on women’s rights and empowerment, including our reproductive rights. the eu has always been a crucial promoter of gender equality in europe, and on the world stage, and we must redouble our efforts for the sake of those who come after us at home and abroad. the un commission on the status of women has been a key international forum for the promotion of gender equality and for mainstreaming a gender perspective across policy fields. at this moment in history, with misogynists like president trump normalising sexual harassment and limiting women’s reproductive rights, the movement for gender equality must become unashamedly intersectional, in order to tackle the gravest forms of discrimination, exploitation and abuse that women face. we must be specific in tailoring policies that tackle the problems faced by different groups, be they refugees, migrants, young girls looking for an education, women with disabilities, or older women facing poverty. we must be able to give a voice to those who have been denied one and we must make our voices heard in the corridors of power. we must ask men to step aside and give women a seat at the decision-making tables, particularly in policy areas such as defence and security, where we can offer an alternative to patriarchal warmongering and remind the world that it is always women and their children who pay the highest price when conflict ensues. the role of women in peace-building and conflict prevention is therefore crucial and both the un and the eu have a key role to play in this respect.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this debate is about roma, but because of the eu’s four fundamentalisms – i will not call them freedoms – it is also about migration. your cult-like adherence to complete open borders means it has to be. the eu signed its own political death warrant when it expanded to the east and brought into the eu vastly poorer former communist countries. using eu rules, the great migration westwards began. for the first time in british recorded history, net migration to the uk soared to over a quarter of a million and as high as a third of a million recently. one of the communities particularly hit was in sheffield. according to reports, the page hall estate received an influx of 6 000 roma and eastern european migrants in four years. such had been the pace of migration into the uk that the then government’s integration adviser, dame louise casey, was quoted to have said whole areas have changed beyond all recognition because of a failure by government to handle mass migration. now no one can deny anyone the ambition to get a better deal for themselves or their families, but as elected representatives we are answerable to our constituents first and foremost. my constituents watching this know that they are my boss. like any good employer-employee relationship, if my employers do not think i am doing a good job they will remove me. this is perhaps why ukip has won the thurrock local elections for three years running. what we have seen is the eu’s top-down agenda forcing change on communities that no one voted for. let us look at the page hall estate again, a whole estate transformed without any one voting for it. in fact one labour politician – yes, labour – warned of riots due to the levels of roma migration into sheffield. the knock-on effects of uncontrolled migration across the uk have seen school class sizes increase. families struggle to get the right school place for their children; a&e waiting times are unbelievably high; the housing waiting list puts social housing beyond the reach of many of my constituents, and the pressures are always felt hardest in working class communities. eu policies have turned a europe of different nations and cultures into a free-for-all. it may suit the rich and wealthy to have easy access to cheap cleaners and au pairs, but working class communities have seen their neighbourhoods change and opportunities disappear without their consent. brexit gives us a chance to change all this. if the conservative government betray the millions of people who voted for proper border controls they will never be forgiven. we toppled one prime minister; we can do so again. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i would like to thank the honourable member for that speech. i do not know whether the translation was a bit skew-whiff, but i actually pointed out that the british government had no integration plan whatsoever. because of eu policies and because of complete free movement, there was no integration plan and, because of the levels of immigration into the uk, there could not have been an integration plan because the pace of change was far too quick. that was the point i was making, so trying to paint a picture of everything being rosy in the european union is precisely why people are fed-up with this place. your failure to grasp this will mean that other nation states will vote to leave. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i am happy to e-mail the lady my speech where she can see that she was probably listening to a completely different speech. trying to put words in my mouth, madam, to make cheap political points actually debases this parliament and this chamber, which my constituents will see. two-thirds of the people in essex and three-quarters in my constituency of thurrock voted to leave this place and your ramblings there, madam, are precisely why they were completely correct to do so. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not think there is anything to say to that level of rubbish. another person trying to put words in my mouth – and you carry on doing this, carry on trying to paint everything in the european union as rosy, keep demonising people who raise legitimate concerns. in my speech, i mentioned the fact that the british government had no integration plan, the fact that they had not put any plans in place to be able to manage migration when the european union expanded. these are legitimate concerns, and are concerns that led 17 million people to vote to leave the european union. so, carry on, sir, as you will; we will be out of this soon enough and you can keep talking to the echo chamber.
madam president, in my north-west england constituency, there is a significant population of roma in both rural and urban areas. for example, the annual appleby horse fair in cumbria has become one of the most celebrated romany festivals in europe, filmed, photographed and featuring in tourism guides. on the other hand, public perceptions of roma are still based on disinformation. last year’s referendum campaign unleashed a new wave of increased hate towards ethnic minorities, with roma communities being particularly targeted. a roma community development worker in manchester told me that on 24 june 2016 – the day after the referendum – a group of roma children who used to play in a public park had disappeared from public view overnight, frightened by the rampant, unpleasant public mood towards people of different nationalities and ethnic backgrounds. brexit has turned my country into a shameful, intolerant place and the roma were sadly amongst the first victims. the brexiteers, ukip, the conservative government and the right-wing press must take responsibility for whipping up hatred on a scale not seen for decades. but on roma day, let us find ways of addressing the issue... (the president cut off the speaker)
author. – madam president, our thoughts and condolences are with the victims and families of the atrocious terrorist attack in the st petersburg metro this week. nevertheless, we cannot allow this to silence our condemnation of president putin, his leadership and foreign policy, particularly aggression regarding ukraine and syria. following the revelations of corruption against prime minister medvedev in a video published by alexei navalny last month, we saw a wave of protest against the government, largely from a new generation of russians that wish for a better, and better governed, future for their country. the large number of arrests, including navalny himself, reminds us all that presidential elections are looming next year. i encourage the european union to continue to press for the release of navalny and to keep up the political pressure in the council of europe in response to the trumped-up convictions we have seen levelled against navalny in russia, largely aimed at preventing him from standing in the presidential elections next year. we are yet to see the exact response from the kremlin following these protests and the attacks this week, but past experience suggests to me that political capital will be sought by president putin from this.
mr president, the right to protest, to express dissent and disagreement with the status quo, is important for modern democratic societies. it is worrying, therefore, to witness the on-going crackdown on civil society in many countries including, sadly, some member states such as hungary. but beyond our borders, in russia and belarus, young people are even more fed up with corrupt, dysfunctional and undemocratic governments. it is very worrying to see brave young activists, poets, journalists and human rights defenders being arrested and harassed. we must always speak out for freedom of expression. in that respect, i am pleased to support the belarus free theatre, which continues to expose both their own country and russia’s abuse of human rights. our resolution calls for more support for educational exchange programmes and scholarships. it is only through people to people contact and investing in young people and their opportunities, that a vibrant civil society can be built.
author. – mr president, today’s resolution is very useful in highlighting the problems of forced child marriage and acts of sexual violence against women in bangladesh, which we all rightly condemn. we must, however, distinguish such concerns from a wider condemnation of cultural norms and morals in bangladesh, with very different social traditions and economic imperatives to those of our own here in the european union. i am also mindful of the fact that in the united kingdom and in spain, the legal age of consent for marriage is 16, with the permission of parents. on a separate point, i note in paragraph 13 the reference to the foreign donations regulation act, calling for its amendment. of course, we wish to see a vibrant and free civil society operating in bangladesh, and should be concerned by any legislation that prohibits such development. however, there have been problems with some ngos and charities operating as vehicles for the funding of jihadi terrorism organisations and we must support the bangladeshi government’s right to crack down on these practices. bangladesh is a secular country and enjoys a pca with the european union, and we should help it in its democratic progress and its prosperity.
mr president, i am obliged to you. i take the floor today in my capacity as chairman of the standing committee, within the international trade committee, for south asian trade, and with bangladesh i have had the unique ability to see at first hand the tremendous amount of improvement that has taken place using trade mechanisms for women’s empowerment in bangladesh and in particular female-headed households. what we see here today is, however, a tremendous regression from the progress that has been made. at the very moment in time at which a young female needs the support of her society and country, it seems that other obligations may be placed in the way and her best interests not necessarily taken into account. so i say simply this to the government of bangladesh: as a union we have worked with you, we have stood with you, we have been very proud to see the tremendous improvements that you have made, but please, listen to what this house is conveying to you today. these sorts of developments do not take us forward. they challenge our relationship and we do not want to move away from encouraging you to keep moving forward on women’s empowerment issues.
in writing. – i believe we must demand that the government of bangladesh respect its international obligations on human rights, and not only with respect to child marriage, important though that is. the bangladesh authorities must condemn acts of violence towards innocent citizens. they must commission an independent investigation into extrajudicial killings and bring those responsible to justice. i listened to a recording (in translation) of a serving rapid action battalion (rab) officer exposing crimes he and fellow officers are instructed, by the authorities, to carry out. he describes how rab officers select and kill people. these extra-judicial killings are known as ‘crossfire’. officers place a discharged weapon beside the body to fabricate evidence against the dead individual, claiming they opened fire on rab officers and were therefore killed in self-defence. he reveals that rab officers are instructed to capture, kill and dispose of the body without it being traceable. he concludes that the victims are mainly from the country’s opposition parties. the government is using the rab in its crackdown on the main opposition parties which continue to demand free, fair and participatory national elections in bangladesh following the flawed elections in 2014.
mr president, when this issue of roaming charges came before the parliament, mine was one of the very few voices and very few votes against it. there is a competitive market, and there was no obvious need for state intervention. by privileging one particular type of tariff – in other words, that of the person who travels a lot – we end up effectively requiring a subsidy from kids on estates who don’t travel in order to subsidise people like us who do a lot of travel. but that is not my point today. i lost the argument and i lost that vote. my point is that the reduction in international roaming charges is happening anyway, is happening globally, and has nothing to do with this legislation. it is being done by individual operators. we politicians are not as important as we think we are. there is this solipsistic fallacy where we assume that everything going on in the world is somehow the creation of laws and law-makers. a parting bit of advice as britain comes towards the end of its time here, my friends: we are really not at the centre of affairs.
mr president, in fact for many years the european parliament has been at the forefront of efforts to protect citizens from the abuse of their personal data, so i was therefore very pleased to vote for this important resolution on improving the eu/us privacy shield, and i do not agree that it is a burden on business. this is not just a matter of human rights, it is also a matter of consumer confidence, and there are very real concerns about the scope of the protection within this agreement. it is better than the us safe harbour protections, but there are concerns about the use of data through automatic decision-making, and there are concerns about the remedies that will be available to eu citizens if there is a problem. so it is absolutely right that parliament has taken a firm stand here. i also think that the commission should have allowed parliament to scrutinise this in a better way, because the use of the implementing act procedure in this particular instance has not worked out to our advantage. but overall i am extremely pleased with this resolution, and it enables us to take forward our work in this area.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, mr orbán, not for the first time you sit here as the democratically elected leader of a great nation, and you stand up and make a reasoned argument as to how the hungarians do things and how there are different cultures within europe. you are prepared again and again to come back here and to be attacked and abused by non-entities who want hungary to bow to their will, and not to the will of the hungarian people or its leader. i am beginning to wonder: at what point, sir, do you – as an intelligent man – stop banging your head up against a wall? you spoke today and you behaved today as the leader of a nation, but is it not becoming obvious that, as a member of the european union, you are actually not a nation? just as we are seeing in france at the moment, with huge interference in the french presidential election, even with the unelected commission now coming out and backing this godlike creature called macron. no, you are not the leader of a nation, and these people will go on interfering in the lives of hungarian people, and you will never be forgiven. you are a sinner in their eyes, not just because you want to close down george soros’ propaganda machine that masquerades as a university – nothing to do with that. it is because you will not pay the price for ms merkel’s supreme folly and sign up to migrant quotas, and they will never, ever forgive you for it. surely, since you yourself have said in the past that we need to get rid of a utopia called supranational europe, it must become clear to you – as it became clear to eurosceptics in the united kingdom – that this set of organisations, bound by their treaties, are not open to reform. institutions like this are led by fanatics. they are turning this into a state, and the nation state cannot coexist alongside. now you were bold enough to call a referendum on the migrant quotas, and 88% of those that voted agreed with you. surely logic says it is time for you to give the hungarian people a referendum on whether they stay part of the european union or not. who knows, you might come and join the brexit club, and then we could fight for a nation of democratic states working together, trading together and put this nonsense behind us.
mr president, i wish to congratulate my socialist and democrat colleagues, because we have worked together to push the commission and member states to move forward on social rights in europe, and here it is now – back on the agenda. i am proud to be part of the political group that fights for a true, social europe. with the snap general election in the uk, the labour party is right to insist that it will maintain the eu’s high social standards, and indeed britain’s standards must be raised up along with the rest of europe, regardless of brexit. so, my party, the british labour party, must send out a clear message – a message which so many young people are desperate to hear: we will maintain freedom of movement, we will say loud and clear that we reject a hard tory brexit, and we will protect our hard—won european social rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, let us be honest today. across this house most – if not all – of us share concerns over the current direction of the turkish government under president erdogan. maybe some speakers today will try to out-compete each other in their condemnations, or even – as the previous speaker said – their insults. yes, we all share concerns over press freedom in turkey. yes, we all share concerns over the treatment of the opposition and the conduct of the referendum; and we all share concerns over president erdogan seeking to grab more executive power for what has, up to now, been largely a ceremonial presidency. however, many in this house also realise that, at times, we need to work with turkey. we need to work with turkey when it comes to controlling the flows of refugees and migrants and we need to work with turkey on regional security as an important member of nato. we need to work with turkey as we share concerns over issues such as russian aggression. so, in reality, we are talking about a difficult balancing act and this balancing act needs two things. firstly, we need to be honest with turkey that it may never be a member of the eu. there are too many concerns: prejudice against a largely muslim population; a landmass which lies mostly in asia; the prospect of freedom of movement for millions of turks; the prospect of voting weights in the council and here in this parliament; and an eu external border which would be with countries such as iran, iraq and syria. secondly, we need to have a more robust and critical relationship between turkey and the eu. but in seeking both, the eu has to ask itself: is the eu ready for the consequences of turkey possibly opening its borders with greece and allowing people to transit to the eu, and of president erdogan seeing himself being pushed into the arms of countries such as russia or iran? so, while turkey is not ready for eu membership – and it is not even ready for visa liberalisation – completely turning our back on turkey is not an option. this is why the ecr group welcomes calls for a different kind of relationship with turkey. it will be a difficult balancing act requiring much diplomacy. it may be a more difficult relationship, but it will be a more honest relationship – more cautious, more critical, focused more on cooperation and no longer on the distant goal of eu membership.
madam president, the recent constitutional referendum in turkey signals the end of democracy. the result in itself was highly dubious, given the accusations of electoral fraud. but even so, a large number of turks voted against democracy and in favour of a form of dictatorship. now that is bad enough, but what is interesting and highly disturbing are the voting figures for turkish citizens living in europe who had an overseas vote. despite a narrow majority being achieved overall, those turks voting in europe voted by large majorities for mr erdoğan’s proposals. in france and germany that was over 60%, and in the netherlands, austria and belgium, that was over 70%. so in turkey while half the voters chose to vote for democracy, those turks living in western liberal democracies voted by a large majority to abolish it. perhaps those turkish voters living in europe might vote for a form of islamic authoritarianism in europe, given the chance. the logical conclusion of this vote is that those turks living in europe who voted for dictatorship and against democracy should have the courage of their convictions to live by their decision. they should migrate back to turkey to enjoy the benefits of what they just voted for. and what if turkey’s bid to join the eu had been successful? that application was supported by the eu, and in the uk by the conservative, labour, liberal democrat and green parties. meps from those parties always voted in favour of turkish accession. needless to say, only ukip meps voted against it. if turkey had joined the eu, then we would now be faced with an interesting situation. you would have one country, britain, trying to leave, and you’d have another country, turkey, that you would want to expel. i just wonder if that would take as long as the brexit process.
madam president, i have been to turkey four times since the coup last year and, each time, i have seen a deterioration of democracy and civil society, along with a growing culture of fear in cosmopolitan cities such as istanbul and in the kurdish communities of diyarbakir and nusaybin in the south. the last time i visited, just this past weekend, i spoke with representatives of civil society, artists, the media, opposition parties, trade unions, dismissed educators and public health workers, and minority groups, such as the armenian community. all were absolutely unequivocal in their belief that the european path is the correct future for their beloved country. it is not the turkish people with whom we have a disagreement. it is erdogan and his bloated sense of self—importance and his gross appetite for power. therefore, we must find a way to support grassroots organisations and particularly the youth who hope for a return to a better democracy.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, the more perceptive amongst us will realise that i am not constanze krehl. unfortunately ms krehl cannot be here tonight – she sends her apologies and has asked me to speak on her behalf. i am sure that, if ms krehl was here, she would want to thank the co—rapporteur, mr van nistelrooij, and all the shadows for their usual cooperation in this important report. i want to start my contribution by making a general point about structural reforms. i think that too often structural reforms are seen as being only about privatisation, cuts and austerity, but they should not be. structural reforms should be about positive things and about changing an economy in a positive way. it should be about changing an economy to promote jobs and growth, to promote research and development, and to promote education and training. all these things are important. those are the type of structural reforms that i think we should be supporting. that is why structural funds are so important when we talk about structural reforms: structural funds are an investment in all the things i have just mentioned. that is why, in the current programme of structural funds, we have ex-ante conditionalities: to make sure that structural funds are producing results and are achieving jobs and growth. we put in place conditionalities to make sure we promote policies on growth, the environment, gender equality and many other things. these are the type of things we can use structural funds for in order to improve growth across the european union. today, we are talking about using technical assistance to support structural reforms in member states. this will be on a voluntary basis. member states can, if they wish, take advantage of this new policy and can, of course, add their own funds to it as well. we should not forget that some of the technical assistance will go towards important areas and important policies, such as education and training. however, we also should not forget that the commission is proposing eur 143 million to be redirected, mainly from structural funds, towards technical assistance. therefore, my group believes it is important that the new reform programmes align with cohesion policy aims, because we are using cohesion policy funds. we also believe it is important that local and regional governments are involved in the reform process so that their needs are met – mr van nistelrooij mentioned this in his contribution as well. we also think it is important that parliament receive the support plans and monitoring reports so that we, as a democratic body, can look at the progress which is being made. we also believe that it is important, from a budget point of view, that this programme, which redirects structural funds, does not set a precedent for the future. certainly, we in the s&d group could not accept the slicing of structural funds to be used for future new programmes and initiatives. if we want new programmes and new initiatives, then we have to find other ways of funding them. we have already seen a cut in the current structural funds programme, and if brexit happens, the eu budget will be cut in the future as well. there will be less money for all programmes, including structural funds. so those of us who want to protect structural funds have to make this point now. they have to make the point very, very strongly that this cannot be a precedent for the future. we know that structural funds could also be under attack in the future from those who want to reduce the funding of structural funds or want to scrap structural funds altogether. so i would say, in conclusion, that the s&d group supports this report. we have been the co—rapporteur, with mr van nistelrooij, on the report. we support it, and we also support the proposal put forward by the commission and will be voting for it tomorrow, but we would not want to see this as a precedent. the s&d group believes that structural funds have always been one of the most important policies of the european union, and should be in the future. we will be fighting to defend them in the future.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission, my colleague mimica, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs involved, and in particular mrs sánchez caldentey, for the excellent work she has done on this very special day. we think back to 2013 and the 1,100 people and many more injured that were recorded back then. we had a commemoration today under the auspices of mrs mcavan, who chairs your committee, and you, mrs sánchez caldentey, and arne lietz, and my colleague mimica was also present. they discussed the question of the entire value chain in the textile industry and how to make it more sustainable and equitable. the commission, like parliament, has two objectives: we want to do everything in our power to prevent a similar tragedy in the future. and secondly, we want to work with the member states to reach out to the partner countries, to work with them to ensure that their fellow citizens - the people there - have decent and sustainable jobs, which will also increasingly enable them to earn a living for themselves and their families. my colleague mimica also presented today the working paper on sustainable value creation in the clothing industry. the report of your committee is consistent with our thinking and the commission's ongoing work, which is also reflected in writing in this working document, particularly in terms of development policy. the promotion of sustainable value creation is a contribution, but an essential contribution, to the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. it is and remains our stated objective to work towards sustainable value chains in the textile industry. this requires that we involve all relevant internal and external policy areas, and that we consider the economic, social and environmental implications. our activities are part of a wider strategy that we are undertaking together with the g20, the g7, the oecd and other institutions operating globally. your draft report and our working document show that the value chains in the textile industry are characterised by particularly complex purchasing models, ranging from fibres and fabrics to fabric finishing, clothing, wholesale and retail trade and the final consumer. the textile industry is often affected by specific economic, social and environmental challenges worldwide, but also in europe, such as low wages, long working hours, forced labour, often involving child labour, the lack of genuinely fair labour contracts, the lack of enforcement of collective rights or freedom of association, low safety and workplace standards, and poor health protection at the workplace, such as: the textile sector is a major contributor to economic growth and employment. it can improve people's living standards, but on the other hand, the conditions for this are often inadequate. the commission is in contact with our partner countries through a variety of channels. in development cooperation, we help partner countries by promoting gender equality, by promoting women's economic participation, by the decent work agenda, by improving transparency and traceability in the sector itself. we intend to continue and strengthen this support. the commission has recently launched projects worth €45 million on decent work, transparency, traceability, strengthening value chains in burkina faso and mali and more. all in all, we have to make a big push - we are not where we want to be, but we are thoughtful, we are sustainable, and your report encourages us to continue our work through a variety of services with a variety of partners in the interests of human dignity, of justice and with the aim of making what we all remember today on this fourth anniversary as avoidable as possible for the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, i speak not only as the rapporteur for opinion on employment, but also the person who chairs parliament’s delegation for relations with south asia, which includes bangladesh. i have been to what remains of the rana plaza site, met survivors, seen the work of the accord, the alliance and the sustainability compact there, argued with brands and manufacturers about compensation, and with the government about how we actually entrench and embed high labour standards. i think that is something we need to see in general, not as a niche, and we also need to recognise the important role that price has in this downward pressure on standards. i think we need to question, in fact, the model of fast fashion that we have, and the price that workers pay for that. the supply chain accountability people have spoken of is absolutely crucial, as are empowered workers in free trade unions, able to engage in genuine and constructive social dialogue to help move us forward to something where we have this as a norm, not, as i say, as a niche. we want to see the commission and the european union actively engaging on the international scene and, indeed, promoting such things as the un guiding principles, which are often unknown in some of the countries with which we have trade relationships.
mr president, the life and death of 23-year-old taslima aktar, a bangladeshi garment worker, reads like something out of charles dickens. yet she died on our watch last year on 13 october 2016 after collapsing exhausted at work. paid a pittance, forced by grinding poverty and poor education to labour in a sweatshop making clothes for the western fashion market, taslima was consistently denied a break when she felt unwell. after being pronounced dead later that day, her employer left her body outside the factory for her family to collect. taslima’s death sparked mass strikes, which were met with repression and punitive measures. union organisers have subsequently been harassed and arrested and activists have been blacklisted. we must ask ourselves: what price, fashion? for taslima’s sake, and in memory of all garment workers who suffer injury or who have died at work, i urge the commission to do everything in its power to put people before profit.
mr president, 20 years ago i was serving a life sentence in jail and the ira cessation had collapsed. 20 years ago an inclusive negotiation emerged after the british conservative government lost the election and a new administration, along with the political parties and support from the eu and the usa, built the foundations of ireland’s peace process. i stand here, a former political prisoner released under the terms of the good friday agreement and now, 20 years on, our political process is in serious trouble because of brexit and because an anti-equality axis was formed by the british government and by the dup. i call on this parliament to support the case for the north of ireland to secure designated special status within the eu. this cannot be left to the british government to grant. the westminster election power grab aims to copper-fasten a hard brexit, copper-fasten partition, copper-fasten a hard border and hollow out the good friday agreement in all of its parts. this parliament and the eu cannot allow that to happen because the good friday agreement is an international agreement and it was lodged at the united nations.
mr president, human rights in iran continue to deteriorate with developments that are deeply worrying. on monday, the supreme court reconfirmed the prison sentence of british iranian citizen nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe. one year on from her arrest, the charges against her are still unknown and her husband and young daughter remain separated. monday also marked the first anniversary of swedish-iranian doctor djalali’s imprisonment in iran, where he faces the death sentence. other eu-iranian prisoners suffer in iranian prisons in violation of their human rights, some of them away from the public eye. all of them must be released without exception. last week the iranian government reportedly executed seven prisoners, some of whom were minors when they were convicted, and an eighth man, peyman barandah, is due to be executed on 10 may. the eu external action service and national foreign ministries must do more to make sure that all eu-iranian prisoners held in violation of their human rights come back home and that iran immediately halts all executions.
madam president, this report includes two very fundamental proposals. one is for the eib to demand more capital from shareholders – that’s member states – with that wedge entailing another big bill coming down the line for the united kingdom, regardless of the brexit vote. the second proposal is to increase the budget for external lending. well, neither is justifiable given the eib’s performance to date. and let me remind you that the eib lent almost eur 80 billion last year in order that the eu can broaden and deepen its control. and, astonishingly, the committee on budgetary control stated that the soundness of funded projects should not be assessed only in terms of economic relevance, confirming both the political nature of the eib and that the eu does not have a grip on the realities of the market. lending taxpayers’ money without judging solely upon their economic viability is folly of the first order. and let us not forget the billions in soft loans doled out by the eib to the car companies who cheated the system and polluted our air – hence why we’ve got the air quality problem. but thank you, madam president, for allowing me to speak this morning.
madam president, when the president of the european investment bank came to the econ committee a few weeks ago, i asked him how the uk could repatriate the reported eur 9 billion it has invested in the eib. i suggested that an in specie distribution of some of the bank’s uk loan book into a uk sovereign fund might be an idea. he didn’t answer. it is crucial for the eib to take brexit into account when engaging in long-term commitments. for example, the eib should not expect the uk to guarantee eib bond issues. the existing contingent joint and several liabilities run to the order of some eur 500 billion. that’s a worrying sum when one considers the political motivations behind it. the eib is propping up economies which are structurally unsound as a result of their membership of the euro – in greece the eib has invested 10% of greek gdp – but worse, this report suggests the eib should call for even more capital, and demand even more from the british taxpayer. this is a dangerous fantasy economic nonsense and for that reason we cannot support this report.
mr president, there is a scene in the british sitcom, fawlty towers, in which basil fawlty is thrown into an illogical rage by his car breaking down yet again. he begins to whip it with a tree branch while swearing at it. jeroen dijsselbloem has surely become the basil fawlty of europe. instead of just admitting that the euro does not work and the engine is broken, he rains down abuse on the unfortunate people of southern europe in an impotent display of ill temper. we are nearly a decade on from the start of the crisis and yet we are still talking about keeping greece locked in a currency union with germany. this is unbelievable. the engine is faulty, the vehicle does not drive and all the state of denial is achieving is more human misery, more poverty, more unemployment, more damage to the social fabric and more deflation without end. a proud nation is being sacrificed to the ideology of integration at all costs and, from where i am sitting, that looks shameful.
madam president, the right-wing leaders of the european union have promoted dangerous austerity policies in europe, especially in greece. these policies have been self-defeating and they threaten to tear europe apart, as they have now torn the uk away from europe. austerity has fed the cause of the rise of the far—right, divisive nationalism and dangerous xenophobia. these forces exploit the concerns that ordinary citizens have regarding economic policies that harm them, and so they resort to scapegoating others. but let me remind you what the european treaties say: article 3 of the treaty on the european union says that the eu shall work for a social market economy and social progress, and promote social justice and solidarity among states. that is the spirit of the true european union, and i believe that social justice in the uk and europe is still possible, and we must choose it together.
mr president, it is perfectly within your rights under the rules of procedure to take a block vote on all these amendments.
madam president, what is the purpose of a bank that is backed by the taxpayer and that intervenes in the private sector? the only possible justification is that governments know better than the market. if there is a good bet, investors will see that and will put their money in accordingly, but the notional justification for this kind of bank is that we know better than the market and will make better decisions. as a matter of fact, as we have heard during this debate, that has not been the outcome of these eib loans, and in fact it never is. if you take that argument to the extreme, you get east germany rather than west germany, and north korea rather than south korea. we have tested to its limits the idea that the state knows better than the market. the real purpose of a bank like this is that it opens the door for us to promote projects that we happen to like. it therefore inevitably opens the door to favouritism and cronyism. yet the only solution we have heard today – the only criticism – of all the failings of the eib is to bring it under more direct political control. in fact, we politicians should learn to do less.
mr president, on 14 february, in this very chamber, mr papadakis, one of the non-attached members of this parliament, referred to israel as a terrorist state during a foreign affairs debate. i objected to that at the time and understand it was referred to the bureau. i will be writing to you personally, mr president, asking why no action has been taken.
mr president, this report identifies eye-watering levels of fraudulent activity costing the member states of the european union eur 637 million in 2015. when you add irregularities that are not fraudulent, the total amount of money involved goes to over eur 3 billion. that, of course, is just the known fraud and irregularities because as the rapporteur correctly points out, by definition, there must be more that is not detected. and that is also before even asking the fundamental question as to whether taxpayers got value for money from the cash that was spent. but this report in a lot of ways beautifully illustrates the european project as a whole, because whenever you have more europe in one area it will result in problems implementing across 28 countries and the european union will inevitably have to propose more harmonisation as the answer. for example, you get proposed responses like a european public prosecutor’s office, because the system will fail to function without it, and responses include imposing rules across all 28 member states. this is the very essence of the acquis communautaire. once power moves from a nation state to the european union in one area, it inexorably follows that powers must continue to flow in that same direction. that is how the european union is set up. really, there can only be two honest positions here. either you support a european super state, with all that entails, and the loss of sovereignty and identity that comes with it. that view is logically internally consistent, and however much i disagree with it, i respect those who honestly hold that view. the other position is to recognise that the alternative is to leave the european union and to get off the train before it reaches destination super state. that is what we in the united kingdom are doing. but i just think if only the european union had remained as a trading organisation rather than a political monolith, i am sure we would not be in this position today.
madam president, the diversity of learning structures and educational pathways represents an opportunity for sustainable economic development as well as for personal development of learners and citizens. i know from personal experience that lifelong learning develops creative and critical thinking, helping us to gain in self-confidence, to become problem solvers, entrepreneurs and responsible citizens, and to acquire the intercultural social and transversal skills needed to achieve more inclusive, open and tolerant communities. we are often asked to equip learners with skills and competences for a world that does not yet exist. therefore, properly including lifelong learning in our education policy is key, and promoting eu collaboration and harmonisation across member states is important. in the context of demographic changes, flexible economies and uncertain job markets characterised by increasing digitisation, robotisation and automation of production, we must also embrace the concept of occupational literacy promoting active engagement in arts, citizenship and sport. furthermore, we must include refugees, as they have much to offer and they arrive with skills and a desire to contribute.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am delighted to be here today to take part in this important discussion. food waste is an issue which is very close to my heart, not only because of my personal history, but also because food waste is unethical and immoral. indeed, it is shameful to throw away food in a world where more than 800 million people go to bed hungry every day. therefore we – institutions, industry and science, households, and also as individuals – can make simple gestures to make a real, tangible difference. i hope i am able to show, via my numerous interventions and participation in events throughout the european union and beyond, that the commission is fully committed to leading the european union’s efforts to fight food losses and waste from farm to fork and to make solid progress towards achieving the united nations sustainable development goal of halving food waste by 2030. efforts to prevent food waste will not only increase resource efficiency, but will also reduce unnecessary pressure on the environment, reduce costs and really enable surplus food to be redistributed as a priority to those in need. indeed, tackling food waste is one of the examples with a strong social aspect where successful businesses can benefit our people. by delivering better food, we deliver better health and quality of life. by creating commercially viable business models, we provide jobs. to be successful in all these tasks, we need focused coordination of all relevant policies at european union and member state level, which is rightly pointed out in parliament’s report. i found the report very comprehensive and i welcomed the holistic view taken in the analysis and proposals put forward to prevent food waste and, more generally, to strengthen the resource efficiency of the food supply chain, including the management of water as a key strategic resource of the agri—food industry. i can assure honourable members that i, together with my fellow commissioner, will closely analyse your requests for action in the areas of environmental protection, agricultural policies, fisheries, finance, education and communication – to name just a few. i am also glad that the report follows the guiding principle of all commission action on food waste, which is that food safety and the protection of both human and animal health remain our absolute priority and shall not be undermined or compromised in any way. with its circular economy package and related action plan, the commission translates this general objective into a set of actions with clear commitments and deliverables. the first commitment was already achieved when the commission launched, in november 2016, a multi—stakeholder forum dedicated to food waste prevention, the european union platform on food losses and food waste. the platform brings together both public and private interests, including member states, stakeholders and international organisations, to spearhead european union efforts to tackle food waste. at the first meeting of the platform, members welcomed the establishment of this unique forum, integrating all players as a means of helping all actors to design ways of eliminating food waste from our food systems. the platform will soon meet again, giving stakeholders the opportunity to share experiences, business cases and successful models to allow their replication in all other member states and business sectors and possibly bring these up to eu level. the platform is also a forum to help us deliver our next commitment, namely to elaborate a methodology to enable member states and actors in the food value chain to quantify food waste in a consistent and comparable manner and to adopt, in 2017, eu guidelines to clarify how relevant provisions on eu legislation apply to food donation and to remove barriers, be they regulatory or operational, which hinder the donation of safe, edible food. moreover, my services are working intensively on guidelines to facilitate the valorisation of so—called former foodstuffs as a safe resource for animal feed. there is huge potential to utilise former foodstuffs such as unsold bread or broken biscuits as animal feed. the guidelines are being finalised with experts from the member states and we intend to publish them this autumn. the commission will also examine ways to improve the understanding and use of date marking by actors in the food chain, including consumers. we are currently carrying out further research and exploring, with member states, food supply chain operators and consumers, possible ways to simplify date marking on food labels. this is no easy task. should any changes be proposed in future, we would need to ensure that these, first, meet consumer information needs, second, can indeed make a contribution to food waste reduction, and – most importantly – third, would not put consumer safety at risk. finally, let me take this opportunity to thank the house and in particular the honourable members directly concerned with our work on this report, which i am sure will help us make us significant progress towards our common goals to rescue food and help create a better world.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – madam president, there are obviously huge economic and environmental and social costs to food waste. around 88 billion tonnes of food are wasted annually in the european union with the associated cost estimated at eur 143 billion. it is welcome that this issue is getting increased attention. but we can and should do more. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety was of course the lead committee on this file but i felt it was extremely important that the committee on agriculture and rural development had a say also. in putting together the committee on agriculture and rural development’s opinion on the report i want to concentrate on farm waste and how producers can be assisted in tackling it. finding innovative solutions to the problem of food waste from the farm to the supermarket shelf, to the consumer is in everyone’s benefit. firstly it goes without saying that no farmer wants to produce waste food. farmers’ livelihoods depend on getting their produce to the market and loss of produce at farm level equates to loss of investment and income. therefore farmers can be part of the solution here. farmer-led initiatives can and have offered viable economic solutions and provide value for products which might otherwise go to waste as well as socially innovative projects such as gleaning and offering food that might otherwise go to waste to food banks. in europe we import 40 million tonnes of feed yet we waste 89 million tonnes of food. so there is also potential for the use of former foodstuffs, by-products, in the food chain in feed production. but i also recognise the stress and need for increased traceability. the role of retailers also needs to be recognised. we will all have heard stories from producers in our constituencies about farmers having to search for secondary markets at short notice, even plough their produce back into the soil, because the supermarket does not accept their product. this can be for a number of reasons, from standards in terms of a product specification to cancelled orders owing to changes in consumer demand and over production as a result of requirements to seasonal demands. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my shadow rapporteurs on the committee on agriculture and rural development and can i also congratulate the rapporteur on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, ms borzan, on her excellent report.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the data on food waste in european union are quite astonishing. almost 88 million tonnes of food is being wasted in the eu each year, and a number of studies have shown that between 33% and 50% of the world food production is not consumed. consequently, i concur that such waste is an issue of great importance, affecting both national and global food security. the rapporteur believes that a solution to this problem is a coordinated policy at eu level with the eu action plan for the circular economy laying the foundation, in conjunction with the commission evaluating the relevant legislation to see if it is fit for purpose and identifying if there are gaps, overlaps or areas in need of clarification or further action. however, my party ukip and i believe that an issue as great as this should be addressed at a global rather than a european level with the national parliaments of member states monitoring wastage and food safety issues in their countries without the creation of further eu bureaucracy and legislation.
mr president, thank you very much for the opportunity to address you on this particular subject. all uk citizens who have food waste caddies are very familiar with this initiative and obviously they will be watching, i hope, all of the developments that take place in terms of the debate this evening and the voting this week on this. as ever they will be looking at it somewhat critically. why is the european union actually doing this, and what does it actually imply and mean in terms of implications? i think the negative that really needs to be addressed and voiced this evening is this issue again of european union control on every aspect of the food chain, from animal health and welfare, packaging, crop selection, transport, consumption and waste disposal, and it is all about performance targets and does not address local issues. so, in short, the european union is trying to take control of every issue, be it from farm to fork to bin, and i do not think that is the right way to go about it. i welcome what the rapporteur is trying to do, but i think at this stage it has gone too far in terms of just addressing numbers and meeting those targets. it is not actually looking at local member state issues and how they need to manage and address what happens at the sovereign state level.
mr president, i would like to agree with all of my colleagues in thanking ms borzan for this report. she chose a very challenging subject for a word-limited own initiative report but i think she has done a terrific job. and, for the record, having followed two british members, both happened to be ladies this time, i would like to say that i think it is entirely not the case that this is not of use to all of us. it is extremely useful to share best practice, it is extremely useful to share benchmarking, not to repeat the reinventing of the wheel across 28 member states. what is wrong with that? i think it is a terrifically good idea and there are lots of ideas in here. i compare it for example with a house of commons report from the uk and so many of the things are along the same lines – similar thinking, the gathering of data, the use of data. it is all terribly important and i think this report really does a great job in bringing all of those threads together. i would just like to welcome very much what the commissioner said about rethinking within the commission on animal feed. i recognise why every time i meet somebody over about 70 they talk to me about how food used to be collected to be fed to pigs and chickens, etc. and i try painstakingly to explain to them why, for public health reasons, that had to be stopped. and they always kind of look at you a little bit blankly because clearly the use of food waste in animal feed would be a good move forward. so thank you, commissioner, i really welcome your thoughts that that is being rethought through, because i do think that this house would welcome that so long as public health was adhered to. so thank you again and i look forward to seeing some of these ideas come to fruition.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members have listened closely to this very interesting debate and i am grateful to this house for taking such an active interest in this important issue. may i say a few words? first of all, the circular economy package published in 2015 includes european union level initiatives needed to support implementation of the food-based prevention programme by all actors through the whole food value chain. the proposal for revising the waste framework directive requires member states to reduce food waste at each stage of the food supply chain, monitor food waste level and report back on the progress made in preventing food waste. but i would like to mention a couple of points which were raised in the debate. first of all, mr škrlec mentioned the european court of auditors’ conclusions. the commission cannot agree with these conclusions and regrets that the works done together with member states since 2012 has not been fully recognised. we have identified the most efficient actions to take at eu level to combat food waste and want to remain truly ambitious. given the multifaceted nature of food waste prevention, we have sought to engage both with private actors and public entities through all relevant fora, including expert groups with member states and various consultative groups with stakeholder participation. this inclusive approach resulted in the integrated action plan to tackle food waste adopted by the commission as part of the circular economy package in 2015. moving forward, the commission will continue to strengthen its supporting efforts in the european union member states, notably through the european union platform on food losses and food waste, bringing together both public and private interests. launched in 2016, the platform will support all actors in defining measures needed to prevent food waste, share best practices and evaluate progress made over time. i would like to strengthen, of course – some mentioned mandatory targets for food waste reduction. but the united nations sustainable development goals to halve global per capita food waste by 2030 is our food waste target, so no additional aspirational target was deemed necessary. we need to measure food waste consistently before binding targets can be proposed at eu level. the commission’s proposal for revising the waste framework directive requires member states to measure food waste once again and to use indicators and targets set at national level to monitor progress in food waste prevention. some mentioned definition of food waste. food and waste are already defined in the eu regulatory framework, and an additional legal definition of food waste is not necessary. what really matters is a clear description of the material which constitutes food waste at each stage of the food supply chain. the commission is therefore elaborating a methodology that will illustrate, in the light of eu definition of food and waste, which material may be quantified and measured as food waste, taking into account, amongst others, exemptions as defined in the waste framework directive, and the definition proposed by the european parliament will be further discussed internally within the commission and with parliament and member states to ensure a satisfactory outcome. some of course also raised questions about food donation. food donation is local by nature: food which is available for donation has to be collected and redistributed to charities in a very short time in order to avoid any possible issue of food safety and ensure that food reaches those in need. for this reason, member states and their local authorities are those best placed to directly intervene in this issue. the eu food donation guidelines seek to address the specific issues and obstacles encountered by member states and stakeholders which need to be addressed at eu level. by focusing on better implementation of existing eu rules, the eu guidelines on food donation will support member state authorities and stakeholders in ensuring the redistribution of safe, surplus food to those in need. of course, also mr piecha and some others mentioned issues on vat. value added tax is governed at eu level by the eu directive and must be implemented in international law. vat legislation can sometimes have implications for food donation, and the commissions has worked actively with the member states to clarify how vat rules apply to food donation. in line with the guidelines agreed by the vat committee, the commission recommends that, in the determination of vat for the donation of foods, the value of those goods should be adjusted according to the circumstances and the state of the goods at the time of donation. the commission considers that, when food donations are made close to the ‘best before’ date or the goods are not fit for sale but can be safely consumed, these circumstances should be taken into account by member states when determining the vat due – which could even be zero. changes in the vat directive are not being considered. in its 2011 communication on the future of vat, the commission set out its policy to make the system simpler, more efficient and robust. a broadening of the tax basis important in achieving the goal set in producing new exemptions would run counter to the policy. you mentioned questions about better use of date marking. the commission is working actively on this issue and initiated in 2016 a new study on date marking practices to help inform its work. it is important to promote a common understanding and use of date marking amongst all actors. this study will investigate how date marking is utilised by food business operators and by regulatory authorities and possibly-related impact on food waste. outcomes of the study will help inform future policy-making. any future changes to eu rules must meet consumer information needs, ensure food safety and make a meaningful contribution to food waste. let me conclude by expressing again my gratitude to ms borzan and the shadow rapporteurs. the report, as well as your views and opinions expressed today, will, of course, be given due consideration by myself and by my services. we will continue to work together with our partners in the member states and stakeholders towards our common goals, remove needless waste of food, and save our resources. i am very happy to present this report – in autumn, for example – to our food waste platform and discuss those issues in more detail.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the customs union, which celebrates its 50th anniversary next year, is at the core of the eu. vigilance and constant effort are needed to cope with ever new challenges to its functioning. they concern the safety and security of eu citizens and come with new trade patterns like e—commerce. let me briefly refer to some of the points raised in the report. first, on governance, in its communication of december 2016 on developing the customs union and its governance, the commission outlined a strategic way forward. stronger partnership between eu institutions and member states, between customs and other border authorities, and between customs and trade, is a major priority. the commission will report biannually to parliament on the implementation of this strategy. on uniform application, harmonised customs rules and electronic data exchange and processing are essential to the uniform application of the customs codes throughout the union. in consultation with stakeholders, the commission is preparing the necessary guidance. on it systems, we are working hard with member states towards full integration of customs it systems. in the meantime the transition will have to be properly managed. it systems are also needed to support our customs cooperation with third countries. on customs simplification and controls, we are committed to developing customs simplifications in combination with risk—based controls. this is reflected in the legal provisions of the union customs code (ucc) and in the eu strategy and action plan for customs risk management. we are also reflecting this position in our negotiations of international agreements to strengthen both trade facilitation and customs cooperation on controls. e—commerce and rapidly increasing volumes of small shipments are a major challenge for authorities. we are working with member states, partner countries, international organisations like the world trade organisation, world customs organisation, and traders to find innovative solutions. duty and tax evasion and avoidance are a major issue. we must develop coordination between customs and tax authorities and the relevant it infrastructures with a view to improving the effectiveness of controls as well as accelerating trade. on customs enforcement of intellectual property rights, the entry of counterfeit goods into the eu remains a major challenge. we have legal instruments in place. however, we need to redouble our efforts, in particular when it comes to closer cooperation between customs and the police and the implementation of risk management. on customs infringements and sanctions, i would take this opportunity to thank the committee on international trade for its support in the directive on the common framework for customs infringements and sanctions, which is crucial for uniform application of customs legislation and for respect of our wto obligations. finally, i would like to confirm the commission’s continued commitment to working closely with the parliament so as to ensure that eu customs policy is effective, proportionate and fit for purpose, both within the eu and at international level.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, this report calls for harmonisation of controls at all points of entry into the customs union and for increased surveillance and security measures. i want to talk to you about ireland post—brexit. there are 277 roads crossing the border in ireland. this is not counting farms that straddle the border nor houses where you enter the front door on one side of the border and leave it through the other side. now during the conflict in ireland cross—border smuggling was a daily occurrence. among the achievements of the good friday agreement was that smuggling was dramatically reduced. if the might of the british military could not close the border, eu customs officials will not be able to close it; mission impossible. so bringing back customs posts on the border in ireland will be unworkable as well as politically unacceptable and also an invitation to smugglers to set up shop on the border. increased surveillance and security will be a direct threat to the peace process if the controls are located on the border in ireland. the integrity of the customs union demands that a solution be found which keeps the north of ireland in the eu and in the customs union and the only way to achieve this, short of irish unity, is through designated special status within the eu and it is something that the irish government and this parliament must insist on.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i think we can all agree here that illicit trade and corruption in trade are problems that must be tackled. the rapporteur is spot on when she says that overly complex customs rules can harm smes. so a balance is always necessary. but also, every chain is only as strong as its weakest link – and again the rapporteur is absolutely right to recognise issues with so—called forum shopping, where goods are shipped through the area where it is perceived that customs controls are the most lax. so, of course, there are issues. i also note that a recent report by transparency international shows that, sadly, corruption is the norm and not the exception in public life, ranking 176 countries across the globe for corruption. we see that in the european union there are countries like denmark, sweden, finland, the netherlands and the united kingdom which all come out in the top ten, but there are other eu countries – and i will not name names for the sake of fairness – which are ranked lower than the one-party communist state of cuba. so, when we talk about clamping down on illicit trade at eu level, there is immediately an issue. and when we look at the eu accession countries – the countries that the eu wants to absorb – the corruption levels seen there are ones that, frankly, would make al capone blush and, indeed in one case, are even worse than iran. fundamentally, it is the same old problem. when you try to write the same rules across 28 countries, one size never really fits all, and trying to harmonise too much ends up causing problems.
madam president, we are now seeing a giant, international cyber attack wreak havoc on private and public computer systems across the world, including the national health service in the uk. this is a wake—up call on the need to invest in our e-government systems and cyber security. in the meantime, there is a real risk to our very democracy that comes from harvesting and analysing online data. new technologies enable secretive, private companies to target social media users and determine what information they see. the guardian journalist carole cadwalladr has exposed worrying links between the far right, the brexit leave campaigns, donald trump, the russian government and technology companies owned by the conservative billionaire robert mercer. it appears that the funding of electoral campaigns is opaque and under the radar, provoking legal questions. as we seek to protect our governments and democracies, we must take action to adapt our laws in order to prevent such unethical manipulation of voters online, and instead use online platforms for open and transparent democratic debate.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this question is an existential one for the eu. your answer to this will define the future of your project. it will say whether the eu is to be a collective of freely cooperating peoples, based on friendship and enlightened self-interest, or a centralised coercive structure feared and hated in equal parts by its constituents, and bound one day to explode in a welter of vituperation and vindictiveness. i urge you to look to the self-interest of your project, your peoples and your nations. however, my experience of the direction of your mentality leads me to the sad conclusion that you will continue along the path of self-destruction, both in terms of encouraging destructive economic migration from those poor benighted countries and in terms of sowing discord amongst your constituent nations.
blue-card question. – thank you very much for taking the question. it was an excellent speech, if i may say so: a lot better than we normally get around here. you actually mentioned large corporations paying their share of tax. what do you think of the way that the government of luxembourg has handled this issue over the past 10 to 15 years? i just wonder if you have an opinion about that.
mr president, reading between the lines, the vice—president of the commission seems to think that the eu can, like a kind of king canute, roll back the tide of globalisation. well this is of course not only not true, but also absurd. now my new great friend as of the last four years, the trade commissioner cecilia malmström, was at one time apparently a psychiatric nurse, and it would seem that these psychiatric skills are badly needed within the commission. i hope that cecilia malmström will have a moment to administer to her colleagues. at every voting session here in the european parliament, colleagues vote for rules, laws and regulations that inhibit innovation and destroy jobs, and the direct consequence is low growth, or zero growth, or even minus growth such as that which exists in greece and italy. i can see that the vice-commissioner finds that very amusing. this is not the way to deal with globalisation. you should think again.
mr president, the commission paper on harnessing globalisation says that the eu must pursue a progressive trade and investment agenda which not only opens markets but enhances governance on issues like human rights, working conditions and environmental protection. many of us have been vocal in opposing certain eu trade proposals like epas, isds and ttip, ceta and others. however, we need to recognise that the eu is the only large international actor, which makes it a stated priority to advance on progressive social values. this is an agenda that we must defend and strengthen by emphasising, for example, the decent work agenda and the alternative trade mandate. in the meantime, my own government in the uk is desperately trying to strike up shameful trade deals and arms deals at all costs with various serial human rights violators, such as saudi arabia. i am very afraid that a brexit led by tory britain would not be a progressive force in this world. britain must continue to work with the eu regardless of brexit to advance progressive social and benign globalisation for the good of all of us on this planet.
mr president, today i voted against the eu egovernment action plan 2016-2020. i fully support the use of the internet and modern technology to enhance democracy, but i believe it should be a matter for individual member states. forcing new techniques on member states may well run contrary to local cultures and could disenfranchise the many who are not used to using such systems. furthermore, it is abundantly clear that the internet is not secure, and rushing into egovernment threatens the security of nations. i also have grave – very grave – issues over the potential for the imposition of brussels-generated censorship and the overall loss of personal liberty. the digital single market is a poorly disguised attempt by the european union to take control over the internet, and the cosiness between the european union and some internet giants makes me uneasy. i object to the power grab and i encourage all member states to do their own thing.
mr president, today the eu voted on a government action plan on digital control of eu institutions in the public sector. what does this actually mean? listen to the words placed in the documents. what it actually means is that the eu wants to know about every individual’s data in the european union being controlled in every country’s public bodies: the tax system, the nhs. this document today says that the eu wants to have big brother beyond any concept of big brother. if you have private data with your doctor, the eu will know about it. if you have data about your taxation, the eu will know about it. your passport, the eu will know about it. from the moment you get up in the morning to the moment that you go to bed at night, eu bodies will know everything about you. big government, the big state, the big eu is here.
mr president, i voted against this annual report on the protection of the european union’s financial interests, entitled ‘fight against fraud’. i want to see fraud resolved and i want to see a very strong position taken on fraud, but when you have a system and an organisation like the european union policing itself – and we know the many faults in that particular area – then you will understand why i could not support a report that, quite frankly, papered over the cracks, did not want to deal with the issues and was in essence a token gesture. had the report been a lot stronger in accurately identifying the scale of the issues, and had there not been amendments submitted that actually highlighted the countries at fault, then i might have supported its adoption, but i want to see scrutiny, transparency and accuracy. i do not want to see the detail being hidden.
mr president, at the core of these proposals is the creation of yet another european union control body, this time to manage member states’ customs authorities. now, as always, the european union is dressing up a power grab, and i emphasise ‘a power grab’, as something beneficial – in this case, to prevent illegal and counterfeit goods entering the union. but the reality is that brussels is looking to extend its control and to reduce again the sovereignty of member states. remember that the freedom of movement, people, services and goods is in place as a key pillar, and yet it seems at odds with what we have been voting on this morning. the salami tactic for power-grabbing has been going on for years, and i am very glad that, once brexit finally takes place, the united kingdom will not have to cede yet more power and more control to brussels – to yet another eu body – in respect of what should be a member state competence.
mr president, today the eu voted on a report on the tools needed to facilitate trade with countries outside the european union. the report, which is here in my hand, actually says that complex rules and procedures can overburden small and medium—sized enterprises, placing considerable strain upon them. i have been arguing for the past two and a half years that this is what the eu has been doing through its rules across the whole of europe. it also recognises the need for free trade and cooperation agreements and says that it has them with south korea, canada, the us, china and japan. yet when it comes to brexit and the united kingdom, in this report the views on free trade and small business between the eu and the uk goes out of the window as meps in this chamber – as you can see, an empty one at the moment – demand further punishment of the united kingdom rather than entering into a free trade arrangement. that is the eu negotiating style.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i say to the high representative that we continue to describe the situation in syria as being a civil war, but over the course of the past seven years the conflict has become increasingly a proxy war between the two main divisions of islam. despite paying lip service to the fight against isis, russia continues to target the majority of its efforts against other sunni groups that seek to overthrow the assad alawite regime. turkey is still driven by erdoğan’s overriding aim of preventing the emergence of a kurdish quasi—state on its syrian border, regardless of the fact that the ypg forces have proved to be the most effective forces against isis and have received continuous support from turkey’s nato allies, including the americans. western efforts have, with the exception of the us strike against the shayrat airbase in april, exclusively been focused on the fight against isis. the assad regime, with iranian support, is meanwhile at its strongest point since the conflict began, consolidating its territorial gains and confident that russia’s continuing military backing for it will give it sufficient protection. such confidence was demonstrated by the horrendous chemical attack carried out in idlib in april which killed 70 people. such confidence has also resulted in other atrocious human rights abuses. just yesterday the us state department endorsed the findings of an amnesty international report which claims that prisoners at the saydnaya prison complex are being executed and buried and incinerated in mass graves. in the geneva un talks, the departure of assad is clearly the first point for moving forwards. i called in this house more than six years ago now for a no-fly zone, but all options must now be considered for the sake of defending civilians and their lives, of peace, including things such as transitional arrangements, territorial partitions and even amnesties, however unpalatable. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
mr president, i apologise, but my headphones were not working, so i did not catch the question. it will have to be repeated. i am sorry. perhaps you could repeat it in a compressed, concise, telegraphic form.
blue-card answer. – i do not think that i used the words ‘true facts’. i stated in my speech that the syrian assad regime has carried out atrocities. i will stand by that statement concerning the use of barrel bombs over civilian areas, with the killing of women and children deliberately by the regime. as for the probable use of chemical weapons, the fact that the previous administration under president obama unfortunately refused to act on it as a red line has resulted in president assad continuing to prosecute his war in an atrocious fashion. i do not deny that the other sides have also committed war crimes. there have been war crimes committed by all sides, but this is the most horrendous situation and i have no doubt about the guilt of the assad regime.
mr president, it is groundhog day once again in the european parliament. i look up to the public gallery and say ‘welcome to another month of one of our sessions of hand-wringing!’ madam high representative, i do not need to take up too much of your time, as i have said these things before in response to the same tired old speeches that i am listening to today. whilst the extremists thrive and the people of syria continue to die, we continue to have these debates about regime change, the influence of president putin and how much better syria will be once we have brought in democracy. our track record in the region in terms of the decimation of civilian populations to ensure democracy is not too impressive, and i am sure the peoples of libya, iraq and afghanistan would forgo the prospects of a democratically elected legislature in return for a roof over their heads, food in their mouths and the prospect of living beyond the next week. can we deal with the extremists in syria before even more make their way to yemen to further destabilise that benighted country? can we forget about forcing regime change and help the syrian people rediscover some normality, without us deciding what that normality should be? i will now go outside and bang my head against the wall as i fear it will be far less painful than listening to this.
mr president, high representative, the chilling statistics of those killed and maimed in syria are well known. we now need to focus on solutions. therefore i welcome the strategy as a first step. however, as with everything else, implementation will be the key to success, and this will hinge on a number of key points. how will we ensure the astana deal does not provide a carte blanche for targeting the moderate opposition? what will we do to push the un monitoring of both the agreement and humanitarian access already vetoed by assad? i recognise that many colleagues have mentioned the de—escalation zones and that halting violence is a positive step, but if we do not want to replicate the december ceasefire, which ended in last month’s chemical attack, we need to address the points i have just mentioned. furthermore, i would say it is critical that the lessons we learned in iraq are implemented to avoid repeating the mistakes made there. leaders who kill and maim have to face justice – there are no compromises about that at all. however, uprooting an entire administration will lead to yet another failed state. those without blood on their hands should be allowed to contribute to rebuilding future syria. whatever shape the future governance of syria takes, if it is not inclusive, it is set to fail. we need to break the cycle of sectarian violence and exclusion. all groups, clans and sects needed to commit to a peace deserve a political representation. finally, in this strategy, what will you do, high representative, to add bite to our bark? how do you hope to overcome the blockages in the council on sanctions against some of the key players involved and bring about pressure on the international community?
mr president, rethink rebuild based in manchester is one of many grassroots syrian civil society support groups from 17 different countries who are asking for urgent and robust action to address the situation at its root, namely through civilian protection. here is their recommendation for you: ‘we are tired of the endless political negotiations, which we know will fail because of assad and his allies’ contempt for such processes and for international law more generally. we are frustrated that endless amounts of humanitarian aid are being doled out to syria, whilst we have not been able to end the humanitarian crisis itself. we therefore call upon the international community to implement immediate and enforceable measures with a defined scope and the purpose of civilian protection, and in compliance with international humanitarian law to address the root issue in syria, namely, civilian protection from the assad and russian killing machine. whatever route the international community chooses to follow, it must put this at the heart of its policy, and a failure to do so will only mean that the resulting humanitarian refugee and terrorism crises will continue. #safelyinsyria
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have a long association with the coptic christians in egypt through its large diaspora community living in london. the attacks of last month against two christian churches in egypt were the latest in a series of atrocities. these remind us not only of the continued security risk that egypt faces from al-qaeda, particularly in the sinai, but also of the wider plight that christians as communities face across the entire middle east. there are around 30 million christians living in the region, the largest numbers based in egypt, lebanon and syria. the syrian civil war has tragically seen tens of thousands of christians displaced and fleeing for their lives as isis has deliberately targeted them both there and in neighbouring iraq where, on a visit two years ago, i met a number of assyrian christian idps. i would like to take this opportunity to praise the efforts of the krg in providing shelter for christian refugees housed within its territory. whilst i of course also welcome the support from eu member states that has been given and offered to christian refugees from the middle east, i believe that it is important that we recognise that such expulsions of christians is precisely the aim of groups like isis, who wish to see a middle east free of all non-sunni muslim religious minorities. our efforts should therefore concentrate on establishing safe haven autonomous regions within the middle east, such as in the nineveh plains in iraq, and supporting communities to rebuild their lives and defend themselves in the places that their civilisation has been rooted for over two millennia. with some five million refugees and idps uprooted from their homes due to the conflicts in iraq and syria, it is easy for the plight of the middle east christians to be forgotten.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, madam high representative, this is not the first time that i have stood in this chamber to draw attention to the terrible suffering of christian communities throughout the middle east. it would appear that, far from major moves being made to alleviate that suffering, it is doomed to continue. only this easter, speculation increased over whether or not christianity had a future in the middle east. these are ancient communities, existing since the earliest foundations of the faith, and it is a daunting prospect that we could let asian communities wither in the face of the growing radical islamism throughout the region. whilst the bombings of the coptic church in egypt by islamic state were a tragedy, the support by the egyptian government is a model that should be emulated throughout the region. the attack was not just on a community but on all egyptians. we must continue to draw attention to the situation of christians and to make sure that more is done to prevent the destruction of these ancient communities.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, kenya has accepted refugees at dadaab since 1992. the tripartite agreement between kenya, somalia and the unhcr has led to some repatriation, thus we have been content to ignore this issue. in that time kenya has suffered many terrorist-related attacks, not least at the westgate shopping centre attributed to al-shabab recruitment in dadaab. these camps should provide temporary safe havens and not dump victims of war and droughts. dadaab represents all that is wrong with the way that we deal with displaced persons. ludicrously, in a separate debate this week we will vote to condemn one of the only stabilising states in this region. ethiopia has provided troops, material and money to overcome the anarchy in somalia, but it is always inconvenient in this place to look at the bigger picture. thus we find ourselves bemoaning the plights of displaced people, the inadequacies of african governments, and at the same time, undermine yet another country in this troubled region.
mr president, i have visited kenya twice in the past few months, meeting eu officials and the british embassy, and i know the resolution is right to emphasise the impact of climate change in the east africa region and the human displacement and famine it has caused, in combination with the enduring conflict and human rights abuses. these large-scale international processes require regional and international responses, and the eu can and must play a role. kenyan authorities have done much to host these refugees over 25 years, and the international community, including the eu, must step up its efforts. 60% of the camp’s residents are women and children, and we must do more to ensure access to education while they are in the camps and for those who voluntarily return to somalia or seek asylum. more must be done to provide mental health support, and the needs of women and girls must be taken into account. president trump’s cuts in us funding to the region will not help, and neither will brexit, as the uk’s special relationship with kenya has allowed the country to punch above its weight at eu level, especially helping in the fight against al-shabab on the border. security and a compassionate response must go hand in hand.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, commissioner, reports emerging from chechnya are extremely worrying. it is incomprehensible that in a modern civilised state, anyone’s liberty – and indeed their health and life – would be under threat based on their sexuality. it would appear that the chechnya government has slipped back towards barbarism, and my thoughts are with the families of those who have lost loved ones in this awful persecution. russia has in recent years been under much criticism and scrutiny for their attitudes towards homosexuality, but the republic of chechnya has gone to new extremes. the federal government must show the world that this will not be tolerated and do more to investigate and stamp out any and all of those persecutions in chechnya.
mr president, i am glad, colleagues, that we have been able to achieve such a degree of cross-party unity across this house on this really crucial issue. but remember, we have got the easy job. we have a massive debt of gratitude to civil society and the ngos and journalists who brought this to our attention at all – people who are really struggling in their daily lives against shocking persecution. amnesty international, human rights watch, the international crisis group, vital ngos who do vital work need further support; journalists at novaya gazeta; and indeed the brave citizens who are struggling on a daily basis. the situation in chechnya is the subject of this motion, but it is an example of a growing trend, and it is something i have been reflecting on a great deal in the light of the brexit vote in the uk. there is a trend in politics to create scapegoats – to ‘other’ – to store up hate, and it is a growing trend in politics – and progress is reversible. it is one thing that we must always be on our guard against. there are powerful forces who, with some success in many cases, are undermining and misrepresenting human rights at a time when the eu must be the voice – the antidote – to promote those values and to be the voice for minorities within the wider world. we have a job to do, and many people are relying upon us. i endorse the motion and thank everyone for their support.
mr president, i am very grateful to the commissioner for his explanation of the work that has been done on behalf of the european union. of course, we are only here, as colleagues have pointed out, because of the hard work of civil society in highlighting this. the appalling examples of denial that we have seen from the chechen and russian authorities do no justice to the people who are suffering, but we do know now, because of the hard work of ngos, because of the hard work of organisations like novaya gazeta and the journalists who face recrimination and death, that this is occurring. i am a gay man and i am able to be here with other gay men, other lesbians, other lgbti people and do the work that we do, because i know i am not going to be dragged from my seat by the authorities. i know i am not going to be beaten up by the canal and left for dead and then that be denied by the police and indeed by my own government – they are here to protect me. i do not know if there is anybody here watching in chechnya or in russia, but you are not the problem if you are lgbti; you are not the illness. it is the people who are doing this to you that are the problem and it is this organisation, the international community, who will stand to defend you. (applause)
mr president, ‘i will never allow the tyranny of a majority to oppress a minority’, said mep michael cashman as he cut up his visa card in this very chamber in the lead up to the sochi 2014 olympics, when putin was making anti-lgbti laws. and three years on, we can see that we must never be complacent. the reported persecution of gay, or allegedly gay, men in chechnya is shocking, and the international community must act resolutely to end it. mr putin apparently said that he would support an investigation after angela merkel pressed him on it. but russian authorities still continue to dismiss reports as rumours. so the eu must increase the pressure. the human rights defender yuri guaiana was arrested trying to deliver a petition with two million signatures, demanding justice for lgbti people in chechnya. he was later released because of international pressure. all too often in this chamber we find ourselves defending human rights defenders. yes, the eu is a key protector of human rights in the world, and all of us, as parliamentarians and citizens, must join in support of the effort to ensure those who fight for human rights have the support they need.
rapporteur. – mr president, may i start first of all by recognising the tremendous confidence that colleagues have placed in me by supporting my rapporteurship on a continued basis for this file. it is greatly appreciated, bearing in mind the changing political dynamics within the european union. may i also give due recognition to commissioner frans timmermans for his attitude towards this file and, in particular, for taking on the mantle of ‘europe only where necessary’. i would like to start by thanking all of my shadow rapporteurs involved in this report who have contributed to the final text, and for allowing it to reach this particular stage with relative ease. it was adopted with a large majority in committee. i will try to summarise the key points within the report as quickly and efficiently as possible. as is always the case with this annual report, which i have taken the lead on for some years now, it aims to strengthen the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. as laid out in the treaty of lisbon, they are guiding principles of the european union and should always be respected fully. 2014 saw a decrease in the number of reasoned opinions issued by national parliaments, but my report notes that this could be put down to a significant decline in the number of proposals from the commission. it also draws attention to the fact that justifications of subsidiarity and proportionality by the commission have, on many occasions, been deemed incomplete or non—existent by some national parliaments. as a result, i have asked the commission in my report to improve its explanatory statements with a factually-substantiated analysis of its proposals on subsidiarity and proportionality grounds. the report refers to the impact assessment board too, as it considered just 32% of impact assessments in 2015 unsatisfactory in relation to analysis of subsidiarity and proportionality. this is the same figure as the year before, which to me shows that in this area there is a need for improvement. the key change in this year’s report is that it calls for reasoned opinions to also consider proportionality and not just subsidiarity. i am passionate about that, as determining whether or not legislation is proportionate is often neglected, but it is equally important. this would require a revision of the treaties, but in my opinion it is a necessity and a greater step towards reducing the democratic deficit. i am pleased that groups supported my recommendation for an evaluation of the number of national parliaments required for a yellow card to be triggered. i think it is a good idea for the status quo to be questioned once in a while, and for us to step back and consider whether the thresholds are appropriate. furthermore, i have called for proportionality tests to be able to discard proposals with disproportionate burdens on competitiveness and smes. this is crucial for business back home, regardless of the member state, if they are to remain competitive. there are also proposals for an extension of the time limit for national parliaments to submit opinions which could be carried out by secondary legislation and subsequently incorporated into the next treaty revision. i think it is important to take into account the fact that there are instances where national parliaments simply cannot present a reasoned opinion in the timeframe – in cases of a natural disaster, for example.
rapporteur. – mr president, i will indeed be brief: you have indulged me more than enough earlier in proceedings today and i am obliged to you for that. i wish merely to finish off by saying the following: that this is not, and never was intended to be, a navel-gazing exercise. this is about the future of democracy in europe, throughout europe, for each and every one of our citizens. i only wish that we had had proper procedures in place many, many years before. it is quite clear that our national governments cherry-pick when it comes to europe. when we provide something good and positive, they claim it for themselves and they say they have delivered this. when we deal with something that is a tricky proposition to sell before constituents, they automatically say: ‘this is from europe and nothing to do with us’. and when you have that level of verging-on-almost-dishonesty in our political system, is it any wonder that today we find ourselves where we are? just on a personal basis, i have led on this file with the confidence of colleagues now for many, many years here in this house. i rather suspect this will be the last time that i do so, because of the particular dynamics in terms of the uk situation, and it is a matter of great personal regret for me that, based upon the lack of truly democratic transparency for our citizens, my country finds itself in this particular situation today. but of course, i wish all of my colleagues well. i will watch from afar as this union deepens and strengthens, i hope, always remembering that at some stage i tried to play a constructive role whilst i was here.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, finance flows like water. it will always find the path of least resistance and be drawn by economic gravity towards locations with a critical mass. we all benefit from having access to finance, but some voices in the eu are determined to put barriers in the way of its flow. we hear the new french president and his ‘macaroons’ want to draw bankers from london and that the eu wants to stop london clearing euros. these, ladies and gentlemen, are not realistic threats. there is so much hot air from mr macron that he could power a montgolfier. he was able to rise silently with vacuous grace, as he was plucked from the french establishment from among his merchant banking chums, to save them – temporarily, may i say – from madam le pen’s french revolution. the eu should recognise that even a socialist utopia like the eu is a properly functioning financial market. london’s pre—eminence in global finance could service this eu more easily from outside the socialist paradise. the uk has all the attributes that could make it the eu’s best friend, but instead we are told by macron that voting for brexit is a crime, that the uk must be made an example of, so that no country considers leaving. he may be taking his orders from the german chancellor, but what sort of club is the eu that can openly... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, imagine you invited a very important guest round for dinner, you had made all the preparations, there were some very important confidential conversations that needed to be had and you thought everything had gone well, and yet within hours your guest had told the outside world that you, the host, were deluded – that you were living in a different galaxy. and then all the contents of the conversation were blabbed to an opposition newspaper, and to add insult to injury, you say the food was actually not very good either. and then a few days later, in a display of extreme petulance, you even deride the national language of the host – which, by the way, is looking a bit silly, because last saturday’s extravaganza known as the eurovision song contest saw 90% of the songs sung in english. if you were the host and you had been treated like that by somebody that you thought was important and somebody you thought you could trust, i think you would be asking yourself whether you were dealing with a reasonable person. i do not know, mr juncker, whether this is how you carry on in luxembourg – i doubt it, because in any other part of the civilised world, frankly, that behaviour would be considered bloody rude and the act of a bully – but i will tell you something: your attempt to bully the brits through this negotiation is not working. sixty-eight per cent of the british people now want brexit to happen, and all of that on top of a ludicrous ransom that monsieur barnier wants, which i am told has now doubled to eur 100 billion. either we get some grown-up reasonable demands from the european union or the united kingdom will be forced to walk away before the end of this year. we cannot spend two years with this farce. there is a big, big world out there. i very rarely agree with marxists, but i am beginning to think that perhaps mr varoufakis is right when he says about negotiating with the eu that it is a technocracy that is desperately clinging on to its own exorbitant and illegitimate power. you may have crushed greek democracy two years ago, but you ain’t going to do it to us.
mr president, we now know how the eu 27 leaders plan to negotiate with brexit. on first glance it appears reasonable but, like everything the eu says, on closer inspection you can see the malevolent intent of an eu that tempers no opposition to its control. like a playground bully, it says no member state can talk to the uk separately, like an emperor it grants spain a veto over gibraltar, and like a jilted spouse it says the uk cannot go out and get a new trade partner until the divorce is finalised, or else. but for those in this chamber who want to bully us, threaten us or demean us, may i remind you of the english poem by rudyard kipling about a norman king warning his son about taking advantage of the english:‘the saxon is not like us normans. his manners are not so polite. but he never means anything serious till he talks about justice and right. when he stands like an ox in the furrow – with his sullen eyes set on your own,and grumbles, “this isn’t fair dealing,” my son, leave the saxon alone.’ so when a french president says brexit is a crime, we will say: we will not be imprisoned by your rudeness. when a maltese president says the uk deal must be an inferior deal, we will say: no deal is better than a bad deal. when a german president says that without the eu, britain cannot have its voice heard in the world, we will say: listen to the sounds of a free britain, an independent britain, an outwardly looking britain, trading, growing and expanding in the world, looking forward and not backwards.
madam president, today i will follow mr juncker's example and address the house in french. the united kingdom wants a clean and serious partnership with the european union. we want a full agreement on our economic and security relations. we want the european union to be well and prosperous after we leave. we want to protect the rights of european citizens currently living in the uk, as we are confident that our partners will also want to protect the rights of british citizens in europe. we will of course respect our legal obligations in respect of payments, but you will not have to invent such huge figures to fill the gaps in your budget. we do not want checks on the border between northern ireland and ireland. however, it is difficult to imagine how this will work without knowing what kind of business relationships we will have. the sooner we start negotiations on a free trade agreement, the more likely they are to be successful. madam president, let us work together to build a new relationship that benefits all our citizens.
madam president, five million european citizens are living their lives in constant frustration and a legal limbo. it is a state of anxiety for thousands of eu and uk citizens, with 7% reporting depression, some even suicidal. this is intolerable. the two parties in brexit need quickly to agree to guarantee eu citizens’ right to reside. this is about treating people with dignity, allowing them to plan their lives, their learning and their loves. the british government must stop blaming and start acting governmental: no posturing, no calculating, a ‘right out of the gate’ comprehensive agreement. all that is needed is one bold and generous political act, and british agencies must tear down the barriers they have erected which are causing daily frustration and fear for so many people. outside the convention of ‘nothing is agreed till everything is agreed’, we need a comprehensive right to reside agreement first and we need that very, very quickly.
madam president, the council’s guidelines on brexit give support to the good friday agreement in all of its parts, and that is crucially important. this is a commitment by the eu to not allow for any hardening of the border between the north and the south of ireland. it is a commitment not to allow irish and eu citizens like myself to be dragged out of the eu against our will. it is a recognition that the north of ireland is not an internal matter for the united kingdom, and a commitment that the people of the north will never again be left at the mercy of a ruthless and reactionary british government in london. now that we have the guidelines, we should be putting some flesh on them regarding no hardening of the border in ireland and fully upholding the good friday agreement in all of its parts. there should be no weakening of this commitment in the negotiation directive that is to be adopted next monday. brexit is incompatible with the good friday agreement. brexit is the worst thing to have happened in ireland since the last disaster in ireland, which was the british partitioning of ireland. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – as someone who does not want to see a hard border on both sides of the northern irish/ irish border (as you know, my wife’s family are irish citizens), i understand much of the emotion that runs around that place. but surely we need to look back to the common travel area agreement which was first made between the republic of ireland, the united kingdom and, indeed, the other islands across the british isles. the first one was made just after the birth of the irish free state, so why can we not negotiate a new common travel area after brexit on a bilateral basis? we do not need to worry and concern so many people. this special relationship, i believe, is between britain and the republic of ireland.
blue-card answer. – can i say to you that the common travel area does not resolve the brexit disaster that will happen in ireland, and you should know that better than most. so be very clear. you talk about renegotiation. last week, tony blair talked about renegotiating the good friday agreement. that is a no-go area and the common travel area does not solve the problem. you are deluding yourself if you think that is the solution. the only solution to the brexit problem is that we have designated special status for the north within the eu, or irish unity.
madam president, i would pick up on mr guy verhofstadt’s point about how eurosceptics and populists have been beaten three times in recent elections. actually, it is four: in scotland, we saw them off handsomely with 62% of the vote in favour of remaining within our european family, and we remain in favour of remaining within our european family. scotland will not be silent, passive, bystanders within this process. i would also urge you that while the people of scotland want to work with our friends and colleagues across the eu, there is a deliberate wilful agenda within uk politics to misrepresent and demonise this process and the personalities involved within it. we have heard it today: ‘do not give them more ammunition, do not give them what they want’. this is them getting their excuses in early – ‘brexit would have gone great except for those bloody foreigners’; that is the narrative they are trying to kid the british people with. do not give them what they want; it is not in scotland’s name. as for our guidelines, i read them with a heavy heart, but i see little to dislike. i would urge the suspension of the ‘nothing is agreed till everything is agreed’ principle for citizens’ rights. you could give real impetus to this by committing to an early agreement on this issue, and we could make that work now for all of our citizens.
madam president, the european council guidelines set out much more clearly than anything the british government has produced what the issues are in these negotiations. we still do not know, nearly a year after the referendum, what the british government hopes to achieve in terms of access to the single market and the customs union, in terms of how it intends to protect british farmers if they are no longer part of a common market with an agreed system of subsidies across europe, or what is going to happen to british fishermen. we do not know what is going to happen to british participation in the various technical agencies – the aviation agency, the medicines agency, chemicals and so on, whose certifications are a requirement for selling in the single european market. we only have silence from the british government, yet there are nearly a thousand issues, more than a thousand issues, that need to be settled in this negotiation. we still do not know what the british government’s intention is. far from providing strong and stable leadership, ms may is actually providing desperate and deluded leadership to the british people.
madam president, everyone seems a bit embarrassed by mr juncker and his chief of staff, mr selmayr, including donald tusk, ms merkel and mr barnier. you also think that we are being observed by other planets, as quoted in the french press (i can read french). you accuse ms may of living on another planet, but i think it is you, mr juncker, who is just living on your own juncker planet. you are an embarrassment, sir, and you should step down. mr corbett praises the eu for their negotiating stance, but nobody is listening to his leader back at home. you are going to be annihilated in the polls. you are being run by a marxist, so nobody is listening to you. ms bearder sounds completely and utterly mad, and her party is going to be wiped out at the next general election. but the good news is that 70% of the british public support brexit. we are a resilient bunch. we won the war for you in this place in world war ii. we are not going away, so negotiations in reality will take place with the eu 27. it is business, not you career politicians, that actually [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, first of all i would like to say i welcomed very much mr barnier’s visit to the republic of ireland that last week and his very clear message on how difficult this process is going to be. let us be under no illusions: solving the problem of the border, be it a hard border or a soft border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland, is going to be massive. be under no illusions about that, though i welcome the attempts and his clear spelling out of that problem. but i want to also make clear that politicians in dublin or brussels do not speak for the people of northern ireland. northern ireland will speak for itself, and the people will decide for themselves. they are an integral part of the united kingdom, and they will decide where their future will be – nobody else and none of this process will do so. while i make that very clear, i do so with a degree of sincerity, so that everyone understands where we stand. but i am extremely concerned at the way in which this process is going. i am very concerned that we now have megaphone diplomacy across the english channel, instead of cool heads sitting down and realistically looking at how we are going to solve these problems in the future between us. we want good relations between the united kingdom and the rest of europe, and i sincerely hope that both sides can realise that as this process goes forward and work to achieve that.
madam president, today i have sat in the european union chamber here in strasbourg, listening to the debate on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 29 april this year. quite frankly, the level of ignorance displayed in the comments made by mep colleagues has been astonishing, and also frightening. but i am not surprised: as a member of the european union committee on constitutional affairs, all i see and hear is the one perspective of pro-eu, and calls to penalise the united kingdom. there is never any balanced or non-partisan exploration of the brexit aspect, the contribution the uk makes financially, defence- and security-wise, or why the vote went the way it did. now 68% of the united kingdom want brexit concluded, and i have every faith that after 8 june the united kingdom prime minister, theresa may, will deliver and put the united kingdom, its citizens, its economy – and rightly so – in the forefront of this.
mr president, where are the richest countries in the world? or rather, which states and territories have the wealthiest people? one thing you notice is that they are all small: it’s the switzerlands, the singapores, the monacos, the channel islands, the uaes, the bruneis. of the countries with the highest gdp per head, the top 10, there is only one large state – the united states of america. why? because it has pulled off the trick of administering itself like a confederation of tiny statehoods. as aristotle observed, to the size of a state there is a limit, just as to implements, animals and plants, for they cannot retain their natural facility when they are too large. ever since i’ve been in this chamber, i’ve been told that the flow of history is towards federalisation and big blocs like the european union, but i’ve got to say there’s no evidence for it. in 1946 there were 76 independent countries; today, there are 195. the tide is flowing the other way.
mr president, there is a wealth of experience in this house. looking around, i see colleagues who used to be doctors, soldiers, actors and ship’s engineers. there are obviously one or two duds, but also a lot of people who have brought real experience to the table. but almost no one here is a tech entrepreneur and even those who do have backgrounds in it are not in the same position to make decisions about regulation and investment as those who are directly involved with the sector. london has become, arguably, the world capital of the fintech sector. what did the government have to do with that? it simply stood back and created a climate where the laws were enforced and where regulations were friendly. that is all you need to do. i promise you that there are a million guys out there who are much more interested and involved than anyone in this chamber. it is not going to be our business once we leave, but if you really want technology of this kind to flourish in the remaining european union, the best thing you can do is to stand back and let them get on with it.
the ecb is supposed to be independent, but as everybody in this room knows, it is merely a pure political vehicle for the monetary control of european countries. we could see that when mario draghi, the chairman of the ecb, said that he would do ‘whatever it takes’ to save the euro. well, ‘whatever it takes’ cost millions of lives in poverty and unemployment in greece. it was a transfer union from people in the north to try and save the south, but asked for austerity programmes even more. when we saw cyprus depositors lose their money, and when we see the pension industry, the many young people in this audience today should be concerned that their futures are at risk because pension industries and insurance industries will not be able to pay for them in the future. he may have saved the union for the moment, but he has left a time bomb of destruction under the european nations. it has not gone away, and i pray: do something now, before it explodes and causes all of europe to have a problem once again.
mr president, honourable members, even before the brexit referendum, the ecb was trying a power grab of uk financial services, in an attempt to restrict clearing of euro—denominated derivatives to inside the eurozone. the eu – or ecb rather – was unsuccessful then, but the french and now a german mep repeated the suggestion. in fact, manfred weber appeared to go further last month, and sought to exclude london from all business conducted in euros. what better example, honourable members, can we have of the eu’s ability to cut off its nose to spite its face. london clears derivatives and currencies from all over the world without being in political union with third countries. for the eu to introduce geo-blocking of euro clearing would be a message to the whole world that the euro should not be regarded as a global reserve currency. manfred weber, as leader of merkel’s christian democrats here in strasbourg, should think twice about what the eu might lose if it seeks to punish britain and the city of london. the eu will quickly discover that an economic blitzkrieg is a double-edged sword.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to start first of all by thanking my friend the rapporteur jean-marie cavada on delivering what is for european union citizens a real breakthrough. for far too long we have tried to work towards deconstructing borders, only today to find ourselves in a situation where our citizens can physically pass through a border, but a big part of their life stops as soon as they do so because they cannot access the digital content that rightfully belongs to them. therefore, it was essential that this matter was dealt with, and i congratulate you for the approach that you have taken and the well-balanced inclusive solution that you have arrived at. that balance has been struck between consumer rights and right holders. it was essential that this parliament delivers a strong message of support to the rapporteur’s work. i will certainly do that, and my group also, through the trilogue outcome, which we will be voting on tomorrow. i truly believe it is a digital single market success story. it strikes the right balance between providing online content to consumers while they are temporarily outside of their own member state, whilst ensuring that sufficiently robust residency verification safeguards are in place for rights holders. i am happy to see that the verification methods strike the right balance between being effective but respecting data protection rules in order to avoid abuse. service providers will do so by verifying a subscriber’s country of residence through payment details, an internet contract or an ip address check. slowly but surely, the digital single market is being addressed and consumers and rights holders can both be happy with the outcome of this report.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the european union itself has created serious security problems because of its open borders policy. these problems became all the more obvious after the accession of the eastern european countries in 2004. even the head of europol, rob wainwright, has said that schengen not only facilitates the freedom of movement of people, but the freedom of movement of organised crime and criminals. to try and fix the problems and restore some kind of stability the first step should be to abolish the schengen area. the only real solution is to restore the control of borders to nation states. they all have different challenges and they have to approach their particular problems in their own way. unfortunately, the waiting times at borders are going to be longer in some countries than others. regarding what databases are required to help with border controls, of course the authorities need the fullest possible information on police records, identity documents, fingerprints, criminal intelligence, etc. what we do not need is the eu’s own databases, such as the schengen information system working under sirene. sirene is a police organisation and is part of the eu’s own developing police force. these organisations duplicate the work of interpol and are unnecessary. interpol already has at least 12 databases which are at the disposal of nation states. these databases cover a range of information regarding dna and fingerprints for criminals and missing persons, stolen and missing documents, and counterfeiting, to name just a few of many. the framework for increasing international cooperation in this sphere is interpol and not eu organisations. when britain leaves the european union, which i hope will come sooner rather than later, it should withdraw from europol and sirene and be at the forefront of increasing international cooperation via interpol.
madam president, this report sparked my interest, unfortunately for all the wrong reasons. i believe it has a detrimental impact financially on our british small and medium—sized businesses and individual car owners. following the commission’s white paper entitled ‘roadmap to a single european transport area’, with its view of a sustainable mobility, here we are again seeing a one—size—fits—all policy, a vision of harmonisation of transport for all member states. do not misunderstand me. the safety of road users and the environmental impact of fossil fuels needs to be addressed, but the present situation is a knee-jerk reaction that many cannot afford or have the facility to accommodate. however, once again, i feel this motion put before us pushes the anti-vehicle agenda. it stresses that road charging should be introduced across the eu. yet in the uk the public have completely rejected any attempt to bring back pay—as—you—go road pricing. i am so glad that the people of the uk have voted to leave the european union and i believe this motion is all about control, rather than the individual’s choice.
madam president, at the heart of the resolution for yet more regulations for the road transport sector are the two elements that are always central and dear to the european union: control and tax. the european union wants to intervene in the road transport sector, in the name of climate action, to control the sector and thereby further erode member states’ sovereignty, and then to tax it dry. these proposals are even more ridiculous when one considers the dieselgate scandal, when the eu rules were not enforced and went unnoticed for years, resulting in an environmental scandal. by taking further and tighter control over the road transport sector, the eu is expanding its reach. as each new rule is implemented the member states’ ability to manage this area is reduced, and as the rules become stricter so the economic costs increase, costs that consumers, drivers and passengers will ultimately pay. all talk of the improving emission standards rotates around the ‘polluter pays’ principle. the tighter the rules, the higher the cost. remember the scandal of the failed emission trading scheme so beloved by brussels? we saw that emission controls are a mask for the eu to raise and collect taxes. i had a minute and half, madam president… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i think there are two takeaways from the korean free trade agreement. firstly, that free trade agreements do improve trade and they do create jobs here in europe, but secondly, free trade agreements that have obligations on social environmental standards are only really going to mean anything if those standards can be enforced separately from the wider trade agreement. if they are simply the obligatory part of the agreement, but have no sanctions attached to them, they are not going to be effective, so what we have to argue for in future trade agreements is that the sustainable development chapter itself should be subject to sanctions. in addition, i want to join with my colleagues to say that we have some hope that the new president, president moon of south korea, will actually respond to our request. he has shown in the past in his work as a human rights lawyer that he is receptive to good labour rights and i wish the commissioner well in her dialogue with him.
i have spent the whole afternoon studying the statistics relating to trade between south korea and the eu, and i have to say, as my colleagues from the epp have said, the agreement is a clear success. eu exports to south korea are increasing significantly across all categories. the trade balance for the eu has gone from being negative five years ago to being positive, and we could talk about different categories of goods. car exports to south korea increased by 250%. this is truly extraordinary and, as some colleagues have said, it is a response to the political debate today about the benefits of free trade and the dangers of this modern tendency to isolate oneself. commissioner, i thank you for your performance. i'm thumbing my fingers for your trip to south korea, please negotiate rights for workers, but please let's sell this deal as a clear eu success.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate. i think it has been extremely important. korea is, so far, the most ambitious trade agreement that we have with any country and that makes this report very important for the free trade agreement per se, but also to see what we can learn, what can be drawn from the experience and the lessons that can be learned when it comes to other trade agreements too. i have listened very carefully to your comments here and i think we share in the assessment that, economically, this been a very good, successful agreement. it has created job possibilities, growth and increased trade, and it has been good both for korea and for us. this is absolutely something that we should use as a model. even further, we have spoken to member states and i think there is even more potential for using this trade agreement, especially by small or medium-sized companies. we must see how we can help member states to reach out to small and medium-sized companies, to tell them about the possibilities so that they also dare to invest and to engage in this. however, and i do not think there is any disagreement here in this house, or in the commission either, there are some problems. there are some problems related to the trade agreement when it comes to phytosanitary matters, for instance, some technical problems and some customs problems that we are trying to address. we are also, as you are, very concerned about labour rights and the way that trade union leaders have been treated in korea. i have raised this personally many times with the former government. we have written letters and we have addressed it in the different fora. i think it is fair that we at least wait for the new government to come into place so that we can have a dialogue with the new minister, who will probably come in a couple of weeks, to address this and to see if this government is more open to cooperation and more forthcoming when it comes to labour rights. there are indications that this is the case and as soon as there is a minister i will liaise with him or her, and see how we can move forward on this issue. as i said, there is a formal meeting in september and i will be happy to report back to you, of course, on these conversations. our own evaluation of this agreement, which the commission is doing, of these five years will be published by the summer. i think this will further broaden the picture of five years’ experience and it can help us when we go further in negotiations with south korea, but also in learning lessons from others. we will, of course, make sure this house has access to this and keep you all informed. thank you to the rapporteur for this very useful debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for putting this question on the agenda and thank you for your support for the compact and your concerns for bangladesh. as you know, the commission is fully committed to addressing respect for international labour standards, also in eu trade policy. we can use different instruments to do that, we have our trade and investment agreements, we have the gsp, we have specific partnerships, we have different works and we have this compact. i do share your concerns when it comes to labour rights and the lack of respect for them in bangladesh. the international labour organization included a special paragraph on bangladesh in its report last year on freedom of association and collective bargaining, and this is a serious warning. i also welcome that members from this house have visited bangladesh; the message that you passed on is very powerful and it pushes and puts the issue on the agenda. it has also created awareness, which is very important, and it is contributing to some movement by the bangladeshi government. i also share the goal, of course, that the bangladeshi government fully respect workers’ fundamental rights. turning to the specific questions raise here by mr lange and others. there have been some positive signals from bangladesh on the labour front. they include, for instance, the tripartite agreement of february and the fact that the draft export processing zones law, which was not in line with the ilo convention, has been taken back. that is a positive signal. this tripartite coordination council is a platform for dialogue between social partners. it seems to have been tasked to review the whole labour law and that is also a positive signal. we should welcome this and recognise it. at the same time, there are still questions about the prolongation of the accords mandate. there seems to be a general acceptance that we need to continue the work beyond 2018 in one form or another, but this of course is not enough. we need to have more and continuous improvement, and significant work is still needed. what we will do tomorrow, as mr lange referred to, is the follow-up meeting of the high—level sustainability compact group. it will provide an opportunity to take stock of where we are and how we see future prospects. we have made it very clear to the bangladeshi authorities that we expect them to take urgent progress on respect for labour rights. this cannot happen overnight, but there needs to be a strategy that is clear and transparent and with time bounds. this strategy needs to address freedom of association and collective bargaining. it should be a priority to have speedy and efficient trade unions registrations, as well as making sure that there is investigation and prosecutions of all acts of discrimination and violence against trade unionists. at the same time, we should foresee to revise the bangladesh labour act and the law on the export processing zones in line with ilo conventions. furthermore, the strategy should facilitate private sector investor initiatives so that they can be more involved, as in the accord. in addition to ensuring the accord mandate and that it can be reviewed and renewed, we are also looking for ways to facilitate and to support dialogue among brands and their suppliers on responsible business conduct. we are exploring the possibility to organise technical workshops in cooperation with the oecd on garment due diligence guidance, with specific focus on purchasing practices. we will have to rely primarily on international bodies such as the ilo which are specialised in this matter to assess the actions of the bangladeshi government. the compact remains a very important framework for engaging with bangladesh, together with the other international partners on labour rights. if sufficient progress is not registered within a reasonable timeframe, the commission will need to see what other actions it can take. we have tools we can use such as the gsp regulation, and as you know the gsp regulation in fact foresees temporary withdrawal of trade preferences in case of serious and systematic violation of human and labour rights. so that is a tool that we have, but i hope that that we do not have to use it and that we will see progress in bangladesh. i hope that the meeting tomorrow will bring some advancement, but we will have to monitor this very, very closely. thank you for this debate, thank you for the question and thank you for your engagement on this. i think if we work together and send the same strong message then we can hopefully convey this to the bangladeshi authorities.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is always a pleasure to see commissioner malmström in the chamber. madam commissioner, i very much welcome the very open way in which you deal with trade matters in terms of this parliament and the transparency that we get. bangladesh really is a story with two sides to it. one side is a matter for which we, as the european union, and certainly this parliament, can feel tremendously proud. we have played our role in helping development, making sure that some of the most disadvantaged people in bangladeshi society today find themselves in a situation where they can earn an honest living with pride, and this is something which this house really has invested in greatly. when one looks at the tremendous achievements that have been made, then one has to look at where we are today. it is quite clear to me that bangladesh, the government of bangladesh, is either not listening, or choosing not to listen, or it is not understanding what we are saying. that is why i intend simply to pass on a very clear message today. it is not to deal with the details, as the commission is dealing with that, but it is simply to say to bangladesh that we do not want to see a situation where, from the clutches of victory and tremendous achievement, you deliver a negative result. we have done all that we can to make sure that the doors remain open for you. please take that message today and react in a positive way, so that we can carry on with our journey of progress.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for pursuing this issue. when we went to bangladesh it was very clear that access to our market is a huge issue in bangladesh. as the chair of the development committee, of course i welcome the fact that tens of thousands of workers – particularly women – are gaining a livelihood and making their lives better because they have access to our market. but we also met trade unionists, and they told us about the difficulties they face trying to organise in the workplace, and the serious intimidation. so we welcome what you have done so far, and the letter from your services to the ambassador in brussels, because it is important to remind the bangladeshi authorities that the eba is not just a technical agreement. it is underpinned by our values, and that includes respect for rights at work. i have got a couple of additional questions. the first is about even-handedness. this kept coming up time and time again in bangladesh. it is in no one’s interests to withdraw trade access from bangladesh, only to see business move to countries where conditions are equally bad or even worse than in bangladesh. so what reassurances can you give us about the commission’s future trade agreements with other countries, that they will be similarly tough in making sure people comply with ilo standards and other human rights obligations? secondly, responsibility of our companies: you cannot get investment in jobs and improving people’s lives unless people get a decent price for the goods that they manufacture. we had the report voted in parliament last month. the commission has now adopted your new sustainable garment value chains initiative. what is really going to happen? are you going to do more? what more is the commission going to do now to make sure that actually fair prices can be paid for goods from bangladesh and similar countries for their garments?
mr president, i would also like to thank the commissioner for her ongoing interest and commitment to the issue of the ready-made garment sector, not least in bangladesh, and i am speaking here in my role as chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, and we have followed the sustainability compact from the start. this was seen by many as a positive innovative response to the problem so brutally exposed by the rana plaza tragedy and indeed has been seen as a potential model for engagement with other governments, because i take the point that linda mcavan has just made, that bangladesh is not the only country with problems. i think many of us would welcome the engagement of the bangladeshi government over the years with the compact, but we want to see that engagement renewed and regenerated because this gives an opportunity for bangladesh to actually be a leader in terms of sound trades union activity, good social dialogue, responsible production; just as we on our side ought to keep our side of the bargain about responsible supply chains so that we know we are not putting people’s lives at risk to clothe us.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am giving a speech on behalf of my colleague, william dartmouth, who has had to return to the uk. i see i am not the only person engaged in substitution, as my old friend the agriculture commissioner is here substituting for another commissioner, so i am setting a trend. in the uk, the remain camp are obsessed with access to the single market. this is significant because this report talks about the entry fee that norway must pay for such access. clegg, blair, mandelson and other europhiles tell us that the single market is so important that any price is worth paying to get into it. so what happens in norway? they have been the lucky recipients of 12 000 directives and regulations. some of these are exceeding the authority of the original agreement. a recent 56-page report by nei til eu has found that the cost to norway of this agreement has risen tenfold since 1992. it now costs them gbp 650 million a year for their five million people. in norway, the polling company sentio has found that 47% of norwegians want a referendum on this agreement against 20% who do not. if norway is having misgivings, clegg and company should forget all about saddling the british with a bill that could approach gbp eight billion a year.
mr president, this report calls for the commission to ‘raise the profile of esi funds’ investments and to make it clearer that eu funding is involved’. let me make it crystal clear right from the start of this speech that there is no such thing as eu funding. this money comes from the pockets of citizens of your constituent nations and for you to even consider throwing more of it away on self—promotion is simply a sign that you understand nothing of the issues confronting your voters. we have already seen the decades of audits proving that the eu is utterly unable to prevent misappropriation, misspending and fraud. giving you tens of billions of euros for self—aggrandisement between 2014 and 2020 seems tantamount to financial suicide. this budget is no more than a very expensive carnival parade, replete with all the clowns and sideshows, parading throughout europe to the music of the danse macabre and the smell of burning money. the profusion of eu spending plaques across europe, following this deluge of taxpayers’ money on projects which could have been done – if indeed they should be done – by the nation states much more cheaply and more effectively, may indeed prove to be no more than gravestones for your expansionist empire. the concern this report states regarding the backlog of unpaid invoices is extremely valid. who is going to bail out your vanity schemes when the uk leaves? many of the nations in the south and east of europe are already groaning under the weight of supporting the euro and your backing of the banking establishments. this empire—building will come to a shuddering halt sooner or later and, for the good of your peoples, i urge you to make it sooner. (the speaker declined a blue-card question from franc bogovič)
mr president, eu cohesion funding has been vital for the north of ireland and for border communities recovering from years of conflict and neglect. now all of this good work is under threat because of a brexit that most people in the north do not want and did not vote for. by supporting brexit, the dup has let the people of the north down, again, as we stand to lose eur 982 million of much-needed and essential structural funding. this is funding for thousands of projects in the north of ireland that people depend on for their businesses, for community projects and for infrastructure. some projects are already being delayed because of the fears and uncertainties surrounding brexit. it is hurting our communities now as you know, we spoke about this, and it will only get worse in the future if we do not have access to such cohesion funding and structural funding for the north, because we will see projects collapse. commissioner, the eu needs to ensure that the benefits of decades of cohesion funding for a community that has been emerging from conflict are not lost, by ensuring that the north is guaranteed ongoing access to cohesion funding in the future after brexit, as part of us being afforded designated special status, or whatever it is called, within the eu.
mr president, firstly, we must not underestimate the negative impact of brexit on deprived areas of the united kingdom who benefit from erdf and esf regional development funding, particularly my region, the north-west of england, and specifically the rural area of cumbria, but also liverpool, which was regenerated with european money after margaret thatcher’s government decided to let it rot. it is crucial that future cohesion policy is in line with sustainable development goals encompassing a broad range of objectives, not only oriented towards economic growth but promoting sustainable development of societies and individual and collective wellbeing of communities. therefore, structural investment funds must be used for creative, innovative and smart initiatives that benefit a large part of the population, including the most vulnerable people. although i welcome the important work done on urban agendas, i believe the specific needs and challenges of rural areas must continue to receive proper attention.
author. – mr president, zambia is one of the few countries in africa that have seen more than two peaceful transfers of power: one of the continent’s democratic success stories since moving to multi—party elections in 1991. the close elections last year, which saw incumbent president lungu narrowly beat the opposition party leader hakainde hichilema, has the potential to jeopardise that success. concerns were first raised after the constitutional court quickly dismissed hichilema’s electoral petition, with events coming to a head after the bizarre arrest of hichilema on charges of treason. in response, the influential zambia conference of catholic bishops issued a strongly-worded letter claiming that the country had become a dictatorship in all but name. despite zambia’s overall success, this is not the first time that a president there has sought to consolidate his power, as was seen by the former president chiluba’s unsuccessful attempts to secure an unconstitutional third term in 2001. we must now support the eu’s efforts to see tensions relieved and ensure that zambia and its democratic constitution is upheld and supported by the european union.
author. – mr president, as host of the african union and a key regional contributor to un peace missions, ethiopia’s role is strategic. with conflicts in neighbouring south sudan and somalia, in addition to the repressive regime of afwerki in eritrea to its north, ethiopia has found itself host to the largest refugee population in africa. for one of the poorest countries in the world by gdp per capita, such responsibilities place great strain on the country’s resources. i hope therefore that today’s resolution can be seen in a constructive manner, reminding ethiopia’s government that the eu is here to support its actions but that fundamental human rights to free speech and a right to peaceful protest must still be upheld. i welcome the calls in the resolution for a un-led inquiry into the heavy-handed actions taken by the government in response to the protests in oromia state. this, along with the release of political prisoners including dr gudina, will be vital to improving ethiopia’s record of enforcing the rule of law and democracy – a key part also of honouring its obligations under the eu’s cotonou agreement.
mr president, colleagues, i am very glad to see the issue of human rights in ethiopia brought to this agenda. however, i am deeply concerned that the resolution bears no mention of the systematic and widespread sexual violence against women as part of the persecution of ethnic minorities in ethiopia. we have had testimonies in this parliament from victims, survivors and civil society activists. we heard of mass rape and torture in prisons and camps, we heard of systematic abuse to break up ogaden and oromo communities. these are horrifying crimes, taking place far away from the cameras and the gaze of the world’s media. all of us here must give voice to the voiceless and issue a strong call to the ethiopian government to stop these atrocities immediately, investigate reports and bring the perpetrators to justice.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is just five months since our last resolution concerning south sudan, and the situation there has actually worsened. the country is verging on becoming a failed state. famine was declared in parts of the country in february, in part due to the chaotic political and economic situation; increasingly, voices are being raised with concerns that the conflict is escalating towards genocide; and such grave war-crime concerns must now be taken extremely seriously and all options considered. not only is there a humanitarian obligation to act but the impact of further escalation, in an already destabilising region of the horn of africa, would be detrimental to eu member state interests. nearly a year after the un security council voted to send a regional military protection force of 4 000 troops to supplement the existing unmiss peacekeeping forces, i am pleased to note at last that the south sudanese authorities have finally, and for the first time, allowed these troops to arrive and be stationed on their territory. this is a welcome step but the eu must now go on to pressure south sudan fully to honour all its obligations and to bring all the war criminals to justice.
madam president, my group wishes to move an oral amendment which has been lodged, i am afraid, very late, so it does not appear on the voting lists. on paragraph one, this is a technical-factual update to the text, asking to incorporate the following: ‘and to drop the cases against berhanu nega and jawar mohammed, who were charged in absentia and are currently in exile;’.
madam president, again it is a factual update. i wish to add the following: ‘whereas online activist yonatan tesfaye has been convicted under anti-terrorism legislation for comments he made on facebook, and faces between 10 to 20 years in prison;’.
madam president, i wonder what the case is for these countries to be making payments to less developed parts of the eu. i do not think we can make a moral case for it: there are many more deserving parts of our planet than eu member states. if you have extra money to give away you should surely be giving it to the places where it will be most put to use. it is bizarre that we are giving more to wealthy european farmers than to poor african farmers. perhaps the case is supposed to be economic, but if it is then i submit it is not working terribly well. if grants from the eu raised a country’s economic standard, then greece would be the wealthiest country in europe, having been the biggest per capita recipient of funds since 1981. there would be arguments in this house about whether the greeks should continue to bail out the germans. in fact, the best way for us to raise the standards of living of any country is simply to allow them to engage in global markets, and that means looking beyond europe and raising our eyes to more distant horizons.
madam president, in the next few weeks, the commission will unveil its new proposals for regulation of road transport. improving workers’ rights in this sector and stopping the exploitation of truck, bus and coach drivers should be the absolute top priority of these proposals. unfortunately, this resolution does not sufficiently underline this priority and in particular the paragraph on establishing a european road transport agency to protect and promote workers’ rights, amongst other areas, including proper enforcement of road transport legislation, was rejected. this resolution also does not establish sufficiently strong protections on tackling climate change and air pollution. so in overall terms, i am sorry to say that i voted against this resolution.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her statement. co2 emissions across the transport sector need to be addressed. however, in the road haulage industry, where margins are very tight, it is extremely important that small- and medium-sized businesses are not run off the road and out of existence through unrealistic targets. i hear dangerous talk on cabotage, but some reassuring words on dubious letterbox companies that exploit workers. it is action, more than words, that can only work. may i suggest you allow each member state to tackle the individual companies who blatantly abuse this system across the eu? fragmentation of the internal market should not be used as an excuse to harmonise road safety in member states, especially when the uk and sweden have the safest roads in europe. the eu is constantly questioning the competence of national governments. may i state that the uk has been running very successfully its networks and transport infrastructure for many years, and certainly does not need any further interference from the eu? it will be a great day when we regain our independence and leave the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i want to join bogdan wenta in thanking norbert neuser, who cannot be here today, for the work he has done with colleagues to get the text and focus on why we need a new consensus on development. we need one because we have to find a way for the eu to implement the sustainable development goals. we need one because we need a recommitment by the member states today to tackle global poverty, and i think we need one most of all, today of all days, because we are hearing that donald trump will pull out of the paris agreement on climate change. that is a blow to sustainable development goals, a blow to what we want in europe. so, today of all days, we should give a signal that europe is prepared to step up and give the leadership we need, and that it will meet its global commitments to our collective future on this planet. the important things for me and for my group in this consensus are that we recommit; that poverty eradication is the primary goal of european development policy; that we make the commitment again to reach our target of 0.7% aid; and, for the first time in the consensus, that 0.2% of our collective gdp will focus on the poorest countries. we are hearing that africa is losing out on aid. we have to recommit. i know there are colleagues here, and colleagues i respect a lot, who are concerned about the emphasis placed by some governments on security and migration, and i know there is scepticism about whether or not countries will meet the 0.7%. i share some of those concerns and it is our job to hold governments to account and to make sure the consensus is implemented in the right way. but, above all, let us remember the other paragraphs in this text which talk about youth, unemployment, getting jobs and creating a future for the young people in developing countries. we need to send that signal today, and that is why i hope colleagues will support the consensus.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, while this resolution talks about the laudable aim of reducing poverty worldwide, should the european union not first look closer to home? for instance, in the uk between 2015 and 2016 there were 12.8 million people regarded as being in poverty, and the uk is one of the richest nations. when we come to the poorer nations in your union, commissioner, the figures are much worse. in 2015, 118.7 million – almost 25% of your population – were at risk from poverty. with the nations in real trouble, you see bulgaria at 41%, romania at 37%, and greece at over 35%. should you really be taking money from taxpayers in your own nation states, many of whom are already struggling with dire need, to further your own globalist ambitions? why do you not, instead of chaining poor nations to our wallets with aid dependency, liberalise trade with poorer nations and give them a chance to compete on a level playing field instead of punishing them with your customs union? (mr finch declined to take a blue-card question from ms grapini)
mr president, the european union has been a global leader in sustainable development and it is right for parliament, the commission and the council to now formulate a new position for this changing world. we need to make sure we have policy coherence so that our development cooperation, our trade and our economic policies all work together and, most importantly, align with international human rights norms. coherence also requires taking into account the contribution of culture as a pillar of sustainable economic, social and human development and of peace and resilience building. it is tragic to see my country, the uk, wasting its time with the chaos of brexit while the eu continues to work towards a more prosperous sustainable future for all of us. the uk must continue its participation in eu development policy regardless of brexit, and i hope that a labour government in westminster will do just that.
madam president, the phrase ‘resilience in external action’ might seem a little opaque to some, but what it means is crucial in today’s changing world. resilience means the ability of states and societies to withstand and recover from external and internal crises. what we are seeing throughout the world, from the economic crisis to the arab spring and democratic uprisings, is how important civil society organisations and democratic institutions are in keeping a society from breaking down. when social tensions rise, the ability to organise and speak to one another becomes crucial. arts and culture, artists, creators and journalists play a crucial role in societies in crisis by facilitating expression, communication and intercultural dialogue. they can often make the difference between peace and war. when conflict breaks out, artists, writers and thinkers can often lead the way to reconciliation, and this is why the eu must invest more in promoting cultural diplomacy and exchange.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, anti-semitism is on the rise in europe and this resolution does not attempt to understand the reasons behind it. studies show that european muslims are 10 times more likely to hold very unfavourable views about jews than non-muslims. there are two main reasons for the growth of the current strains of european anti-semitism. the first is the anti-semitic content of the islamic tracts, the qur’an, the hadith and the sunnah. the second is the dramatic growth in the number of muslims in europe over the last 50 years, a growth that is now spiralling upward. the problem is that many muslims take literally what is written in their works of fiction. these works are full of exhortations for discrimination, hatred and violence, and not just against jews, but christians too. these hateful passages are being propagated by imams in mosques paid for by saudi arabia and other islamic countries. these are not extremist forms of islam: these are literalist forms of islam. the passage that always sticks in my mind is the one from the hadith which says: ‘judgement day will not come until the muslims fight the jews. the muslims will kill the jews and the jews will hide behind rocks and trees. the rocks and trees will cry out oh muslim, oh faithful servant of allah, there is a jew behind me. come and kill him.’ if european governments were serious about combating this problem, they would do two things immediately. first, stop all overseas funding of mosques and imams. second, end the mass immigration of muslims into european countries. any future migration from islamic countries should be on a highly selective basis only, and only those migrants prepared to make a solemn and binding pledge that they reject the passages of hatred and violence should be admitted.
madam president, as someone who has jewish heritage in my family i am fully aware of the detrimental effect that racism can have on people. as someone of black heritage, too, i have felt that in the past. i have spoken many times, in this chamber and beyond, about the ways that israel, a beacon of freedom across the globe, has been attacked from all quarters. but i am afraid that the definitions in this motion have caused me grave concern: my concern is that they will enhance those who wish to do the jews and israel harm. in particular, i am concerned about the adoption of the definition from the international holocaust remembrance alliance. the definition is extremely broad and wide. let me, for example, cite this quote to you: ‘palestine belongs to the arabs. it is wrong and inhuman to impose the jews on the arabs.’ the author of this quote would have to be imprisoned if we adopt this definition. the author of the quote was mahatma gandhi. there have been hundreds of politicians, writers and philosophers who have opposed violence but who would be caught by this definition. so i would say to those behind this motion: your definition may be well-meaning, but what you will be doing is preventing freedom of speech and creating a fear of speaking. that is why i would ask you to reflect. go back to the drawing board, please.
mr president, i am obliged to you for giving me the floor. it amazes me how we can be the best of parliaments and sometimes the worst of parliaments all in the same session. i have sat through this debate and listened to some of the most corrosive, divisive and cancerous language that i sometimes hear from time to time. equality is a cornerstone of the european union. if we allow discrimination and its cancerous effects to take root, we are nothing. it particularly interests me that those colleagues here today who decided to speak about another one of our great religions in the way that they did actually share one thing in common, and that is a hatred for the european union. they wish to cloak their arguments in islamophobic rhetoric in order to attack europe. that does not take us any further at all. as europeans, we are equal. you attack one of us, on any basis whatsoever, and you attack as all. (applause)
blue-card question. – thank you, ms jongerius, for taking my blue card. you criticised the delay in the new counter-terrorism bill, but do you not appreciate that this is a very sensitive piece of legislation? it was approved by cabinet in april 2017. it is just about to be put before the sri lankan parliament and of course this is so sensitive that it has to be dealt with by various civil society groups across the political parties, across society, and across international organisations as well. this is a serious matter and i do not think it is fair to criticise the sri lankan government for the delay. they are actually trying to do the job properly and make sure it is a good piece of legislation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i start by agreeing with and underscoring every word of what was stated by commissioner malmström in her opening address. may i also on a personal basis as chair of the south asia trade monitoring committee congratulate sri lanka on this achievement, and may i thank christofer fjellner, my colleague who chairs the gsp+ monitoring committee, for his attitude and the tremendous work he put into this file. it is quite clear that sri lanka today deserves the support of the international community, and europe must play its part in that. it is also clear that if every country had achieved all of the standards that we would like to see, there would be no need for the gsp+ scheme. this provides a genuine opportunity and an incentive. i have only two things to put to the sri lankan government today. one, this is an opportunity for you to provide opportunity in those areas where it is most required in sri lanka and in those communities where it is most required, and secondly, please do not give this parliament any opportunity to turn its back on the grant of the gsp+ to you in the future. the monitoring mechanism requires you to comply. please ensure that you do.
blue-card question. – madam mineur, are you not missing the whole point of the gsp+ programme being put back in place? it is actually to allow the process to begin, to allow wealth to be created, and to allow success, prosperity and wealth to pass down to all levels of the working cycle. the working man and the working woman will inevitably benefit from this. i cannot see why you are criticising it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i am also speaking in my capacity as chair of parliament’s south asia delegation. gsp+, as we have been hearing, is a process of engagement and better market access to the european union in return for implementation of the 27 international conventions. the implementation of these international norms – and i stress that these are not european union wish lists, these are international norms – will be to the benefit of all sri lankans in many areas of everyday life and help towards much-needed reconciliation. but the commissioner is right. effective and stringent monitoring is key, not least because many of us fear that the progress promised by the current government of sri lanka is slow, whether that is on changes to the proposed counterterrorism act to bring it into line with international norms, operationalising the office of missing persons, moving on constitutional change; there are a number of areas. i am pleased to hear that commission monitoring will engage with a wide range of institutions such as the national human rights commission, and civil society across the island, including war-affected areas and communities. it must build on the un reports, such as that of the committee against torture. a timeframe for changes must be agreed with the government, and i would be interested to know what the commission has identified as key objectives for the end of 2017. sri lanka knows from its own experience that gsp+ can be withdrawn but we hope that all will benefit after so much suffering in the country, but it is only going to happen if the government of sri lanka delivers on its promises to its people.
blue-card question. – i apologise profusely for blue-carding a colleague from my own group but, based upon the comments that have just been made, mr marias, would you accept that we have heard all of these arguments of protectionism for european industries presented in previous cases before in this very house? but when all the time we have tested those arguments against fact and experience that is carried out in the marketplace, they have always failed to live up to the claims that were made at the outset, and in fact our industries have not been disadvantaged by granting such schemes to other countries.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to join with all of my colleagues in wishing the commissioner, and indeed our team, every success at the ocean conference next week. when i started to look at this, it made me realise how far we have come on this issue of sustainable oceans, and yet also how far we still have to go. we have had a change of mindset. certainly the common fisheries policy, which has not always been universally admired, is beginning to change, but we need to be very vigilant. indeed, just in these few weeks when we have been talking about external fishing fleets – as i have been, and the rapporteur, the author of this report, has also been involved – you are reminded, with every article you go through, about how you have to be vigilant and to make sure that you do not slip backwards. we have to go forwards when it comes to sustainable development. so i would like to welcome this resolution. i welcome the opportunity for a delegation from this parliament to go to the meeting and i wish them every success.
mr president, sinn féin has engaged with hundreds and hundreds of groups and organisations that are all concerned about the loss of eu funding post-brexit. it is ironic that the only money that came to the north of ireland through brexit was dark, shadowy and unaccountable. the democratic unionist party received an envelope stuffed with the grand total of gbp 436 000 to advertise support for brexit in britain but not in ireland. the unanswered question is who paid the dup? did anyone fumble in a greasy till? the dup has been asked to report on the original source of this money. there are concerns that the dup allowed the money to be siphoned to avoid british electoral law and exploit a loophole. serious allegations by opendemocracy linked the previously unheard of constitutional research council and the well-known saudi intelligence to the cash. whoever the donors are, we know that the dup took the brexit money, but we will pay the price.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the existing security features for the visa system for the schengen area have been deeply compromised. therefore the updated security features are needed to combat counterfeiting. hence, the legislation for an improved uniform format for schengen visas which we are discussing today. the uk is not a member of the schengen area and is not therefore participating in this legislation. the uk has its own national system for issuing visas and, thankfully, access to the schengen area does not give access to the uk, at least not officially. it is good that the eu is trying to tighten up on illegal immigration, but since anyone who can make it across the mediterranean in a boat is going to be admitted anyway, the lines between the legal and illegal immigration are becoming increasingly irrelevant. in fact, people smugglers are now putting only enough petrol in their boats to get them offshore so that the rescue services will automatically bring their human cargoes ashore. it is now not so much a rescue service as a taxi service for the last leg of the illegal migrants’ journey. the big problem for the eu is the schengen area itself, which is a magnet pulling migrants to europe. once a migrant has achieved a foothold in the schengen area, it opens up the possibility of onward journeys to their desired location. although the uk is not part of schengen, our border controls are extremely lax and open to abuse, to say the least. our immigration system and border controls are in chaos. one simple indicator of this is to look at the official migration figures next to other known figures for migrants. in 2016, the official net migration figure was 273 000. however, the number of national insurance numbers issued to foreign nationals was 825 000. clearly something is wrong if there can be such an enormous discrepancy. a leak from the german government said that another 6 million illegal migrants are waiting to come to europe this summer. the uk is not affected by this legislation and ukip meps will therefore abstain, but we wish you luck with sorting out your visa system because you are going to need it.
madam president, well an eu-wide visa policy has existed for over 20 years. however, it is no longer secure, creating and enabling numerous threats to citizens across the european union. the safeguards against counterfeiting and falsification have failed in, and i quote from the report, ‘several member states’. this indicates that a pan-european union visa system is not operationally effective and that security standards across the european union are not 100% reliable. now given the huge problems of unlawful migration and terrorist threat levels, which even my colleague mr batten has mentioned, it is quite clear that a european union-wide visa should cease with immediate effect and be replaced with bilateral, international visa-exchange systems between individual member states and trusted, trustworthy international countries. now tinkering around the edges as this proposal indicates is not the solution. it needs a major, major reset. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from michael theurer)
madam president, the telecommunications revolution has improved people’s lives in a way that no legislation from this or any other chamber can begin to approach. there has been an absolute transformation of the human condition, particularly in developing countries, and it is something almost wholly unforeseen by politicians. what’s been the response of the european commission? i can’t help noticing that there have been an awful lot of legal actions in the last five years against us-based tech firms, perhaps in pursuit of what commissioner oettinger calls ‘digital independence’ for the eu. microsoft, google, apple – they’ve all been on the receiving end of it. of course there aren’t really european equivalents to these firms, and perhaps the reason for that is because of the regulatory regime that we’ve created here. it may be no coincidence that since the brexit vote we’ve seen google and apple, and most recently snapchat, relocating to london in full knowledge that britain is leaving the european union. perhaps it’s precisely because of what they know about the eu’s regulatory environment that they’re shifting.
madam president, there is one charge against which i would always defend members of this house, and that is the widespread belief in many of our member states that meps are lazy: that we come here and sit around and do nothing. frankly, the world would be a much better place if that charge were true: if, instead of constantly legislating, people would come in, and clock in for their very generous attendance allowance, and then go and work on their golf handicap or read a novel, or do something other than meddling in the lives of everybody else. but, of course, human nature being what it is, we – having claimed all of these generous expenses – decide we have to do something, we have to justify our work in some way, and so we produce reports like this. on what conceivable measure is this anything that has to do with the european union? of course the protection of vulnerable adults is a critical function but by any conceivable … (heckling)i am sorry but i am being heckled by a sort of lefty yahoo over there, who is gibbering and ranting like a stricken animal. but, by any conceivable supposition, this is something that is reserved for the member states. why not recognise the limits of what we can do?
madam president, as russia continues the proxy war in the east of ukraine and its illegal occupation of crimea, it is right in this house that we and in the rest of the european union continue to support ukraine, standing up for the rules-based international order and values that we all believe in, and also demand a full implementation of the minsk agreements. ukraine has seen its share of exports to russia halve since 2013, a major dislocation of its trade given the historic links between the two countries. so i strongly welcome the dcfta that has been in place since last year, and i’m equally supportive of these additional measures that aim to further support ukraine’s now-growing economy and its further integration into the european union’s single market. we do now see a commitment by ukraine to transition to a full market economy. i’m also pleased that the netherlands ratified the association agreement this week, a welcome sign showing that the eu is now fully united in support of ukraine and its euro-atlantic aspirations.
madam president, the european union’s global strategy aims to be both principled and pragmatic, yet this is clearly impossible. the policy can only be either principled, or pragmatic, it cannot be both. and here the european union is trying to use words to pull the wool over our eyes. it is making the claim that it can be all things to all men in the name of promoting civil society. the reality is that the european union is consolidating its strengths as a global actor to compensate for, and in the wake of, brexit. it is hardening its tone internationally, often in areas that do not concern it, and is accelerating its plans for its own military forces. but the sad reality of european union foreign policy is that it has a history of destabilising regions like the ukraine and the balkans, and also unleashing events that it cannot control, like the migrant crisis. it did not have my support today.
madam president, whilst it was recently reported that the rise in anti-semitism in the uk was one of the highest in the world, much of it is due to increased anti-semitic abuse online, particularly via social media. now that is unacceptable, but i am just trying to make a point in terms of where that is coming from. challenging anti-semitism in the united kingdom is always going to be a problem while we have one mainstream political party seen by the media, seen in terms of public opinion – and i am referring to the labour party – failing consistently to deal with the problem within its own ranks, very often trying to disguise its deep-rooted prejudices as anti-zionist or anti-israeli. the party in my opinion – and this is my view, i can only go with what i hear and see – has seemingly time and time again refused to tackle the issue within its own senior ranks, just inflicting simple reprimands but actually not dealing with the issue. if anti-semitism is going to be dealt with, and the uk is a good example, then political parties need to take responsibility.
madam president, whilst i welcome today’s resolution, it is tragic that 70 years on from the nazi atrocities such a resolution is even necessary. it is quite clear from the statistics that the number of anti-semitic attacks, both verbal and physical, is on the rise in europe, including in my own country, the united kingdom, particularly on the internet. indeed, we saw in paris and in brussels in the last few years actual terrorist attacks specifically committed against a kosher supermarket and the jewish museum in brussels. as the populations of eu member states become ever more diverse it is important we pay close attention to encouraging and ensuring that the successful social cohesion and integration of all communities is worked towards. i am pleased, therefore, that the resolution goes beyond looking just at the topic at hand, but at the need to ease tensions across all the divides. i particularly welcome the emphasis on cross-border cooperation with regard to this issue, and the need to work together in times of terrorist attacks, particularly in the realm of sharing intelligence on extremist groups. finding ways to prevent the radicalisation of vulnerable individuals will also be key in this area.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague on this excellent report. it underlines that this parliament is a champion of horizon 2020, the largest research area in the world. the programme delivers on the priorities of people across the eu, stimulating jobs and growth, not just now but long into the future. it is also a shining example of how the eu brings added value to all citizens, far beyond those directly involved. it is through this programme we can diagnose, treat and cure illnesses and diseases or find affordable, sustainable ways of meeting our energy needs. we must recognise the success of horizon 2020 and realise it demonstrates the need to allocate more resources to this excellence-based research long into the future to protect and strengthen its achievements. finally, when we do something well we should learn from it, build on it and, vitally, as the commissioner said, tell people about it!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as shadow rapporteur i wanted to say a few words on the natural disasters agreement. we started discussions with differences between parliament, the council and the commission. and indeed, there are also differences between the political groups within this parliament. so it is a huge achievement but we managed to get a common position in parliament and then a compromise agreement with the council. now, of course, it is important that the money goes to italy as soon as possible, so the people there can benefit from these structural funds. i also wanted to say a few words on the future of cohesion policy. i want to thank the rapporteur for her report and the commissioner for her excellent words. i think we in this parliament can actually learn something from our discussions on the national disasters issue. we were much stronger in those negotiations because we were united and therefore we also need to be united in our position on the future of cohesion policy. if we are united and speak with one voice it will be much more difficult for others to ignore us. i would say that, at this stage, we should not be talking about detailing too much. detail can come much later, because at the moment there is so much on which we can agree with, we need to agree an adequate budget cohesion policy, that all regions should get something, that there should be more for poorer member states. we should agree on simplification, we should agree that there should be a greater focus on performance, but the main thing today is to agree this report and to start the fight for the future of cohesion policy.
mr president, this report highlights an increase in euro-scepticism and anti-eu reporting, which the rapporteurs claim distorts information on eu policies. in other words, it raises alarm bells at the obvious fact that, just as happened to the roman empire, the wheels are starting to come off the eu chariot. you rightly understand that this rise in populism throughout the eu isn’t going away, and is a threat to the existence of the eu institutions. so how do you respond? by expressing the desire to waste more taxpayers’ money on dead-end projects and pro-eu political soundbites. this strikes me as a case of ‘thou doth protest too much’ and underlines that, in these times of austerity, the taxpayer has found you out. indeed, with just 34% of citizens claiming to have heard about eu co-financed projects, it underlines how these projects are not doing much to help at all, yet you still call for more money to be wasted. as abraham lincoln famously said: ‘you can fool all of the people some of the time, and some of the people all of the time, but you can’t fool all of the people all of the time.’
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the mediterranean illustrates perfectly the flaws in the common fisheries policy. it is very different from the baltic or the north sea, but the eu says one size fits all. the mediterranean is not an eu sea and the eu has to buy off non-eu countries which are either massively corrupt, dictatorships or failed states. so agreements are not worth the paper they are written on and do nothing to help ordinary people. this report is full of the usual nonsense, with unrealistic technical measures, unworkable quotas and unworkable minimal sizes of fish. it contains lies and half-truths about the behaviour of non-western governments. there are no proper controls on subsidies, vested interests or industrial scale fishing. there are massive incentives to simply cheat the system. they are all backed up by platitudes and mother-and-apple-pie sentiments which tell us nothing. in short, everything here does what you should not do – it reinforces the failure of the common agricultural policy (cap). and while we are on the subject, britain wants its territorial waters back and we want british fish for british fish and chips.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am honoured to address today’s plenary as the rapporteur for the report on statelessness in south and south east asia. for the overwhelming majority of colleagues in the committee on foreign affairs, it was felt that this report was worth embracing – from the very first draft through to the final text – unequivocally, and irrespective of political affiliation, because we are deeply appalled at the un refugee agency’s estimates that 135 million children under the age of five, across the south and south east asia region, have not had their births registered and are at risk of becoming stateless. we are mindful that being a rohingya, for instance, (the largest stateless ethnic group in the world) equals living literally in the shadows, as a non—person in the eyes of the authorities, unable to stay in, unable to move out, stripped of property rights and denied access to health, education and the right to start a business. as a proud british conservative, i uphold a rich tradition that champions the cause for the small state, both in number and regulatory functions. the raison d’être of the state, anywhere in the world, is to defend, protect and enforce the rule of law so that each and every individual is genuinely free. people of all ethnic, religious and cultural backgrounds must have their unalienable rights protected, down to the last individual, because the smallest minority is the individual. my thinking is influenced by aristotle’s emphasis on the individual. our prosperity in europe is the result of the consciousness that no one should be above the law. it was the magna carta, in the early 13th century, and the contributions of thomas hobbes and john locke on the social contract, that paved the way forward. as in 18th century prussia, those at the mercy of the myanmar authorities must be able to stand up and say that there are judges in berlin. the myanmar authorities’ failure to fulfil these essential state functions must spur the international community to act. we must recognise the progress made in indonesia, cambodia and vietnam. however, there are still millions who are stateless and persecuted every day because of it. enhanced political and economic relations with europe go in tandem with individual freedoms and the rule of law. these are the messages that myanmar, and any other country in this region and the world, must be reminded of. i am proud of this house, honourable colleagues, because we seized this noble opportunity to focus across the political spectrum on the absolute essentials of life, liberty and the right to happiness. tomorrow’s vote will provide hope to those who are suffering and ensure that promoting citizenship is a priority for the eu.
mr president, theresa may has managed to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory. consequently, there is much talk of a ‘soft brexit’. there is no such thing as a hard or soft brexit. there is only exit. ‘soft brexit’ is just code for not really leaving the eu at all. the conservative and labour manifestos were committed to implementing the result of the referendum but we cannot trust either party. both are dominated by remainers, who want to thwart brexit if they can. their best hope of doing that is by negotiating a deal whereby britain leaves the eu in name, but not in substance. to avoid that, the british parliament must immediately repeal the european communities act 1972, as the first step not the final step, in the process. we must leave the eu under our law, and then tell the eu how brexit is going to work, not ask for permission on how we might leave.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues and the rapporteur for their hard work and cooperation on this energy labelling file. though discussions were rather slow at times, i am glad we did – at long last – reach an agreement. this new legislation will benefit consumers. they will see an end to the confusing system that includes an a, an a+, an a ++ and an a +++, and revert back to the original system, where a is, in fact, the most efficient product and g is the least. these new labels will prove provide clarity to consumers and will enable them to make more energy efficient and cost efficient choices. on wrongly labelled products, we prefer to see this addressed as part of a wider review of consumer protection legislation. we have seen that abuses in the motor industry have impacted on consumer confidence, and therefore the introduction of a product database will add much-needed vigour to mass—market surveillance. my group did have concerns about mr tamburrano’s proposals for the product database and the burdens it would place on industry, particularly small manufacturers, but we are satisfied that obligations have been kept to the level where manufacturers only have to submit information necessary for market surveillance. the data will also be open source and allow app developers and retailers to incorporate the information in product searches and filters. this will help consumers to make better choices. overall, my group is happy and will support this report.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, can i say to mr eickhout that if we listen to industry perhaps we will have jobs and prosperity. the european union has hardly covered itself in glory with respect to energy efficiency regulation. certainly the things we did with kettles and vacuum cleaners attracted ridicule in the uk, and i suspect across the rest of europe, and tended to bring the european project into considerable disrepute. the problem we face is that we are constantly tinkering with regulations, and the effect of that is to confuse consumers and to create problems for industry. but in my party we reflect on the fact that we shall very soon be out of the european union and shall be free to make our own rules – and frankly, if the rest of the european union, the other 27, wish to tie themselves up in absurd red tape, ‘go for it’ is what i say.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, the most powerful signal that the european parliament can give is that it is serious about tackling climate change and is taking real action implementing the paris agreement by passing the climate action regulation tomorrow. it deals with almost two-thirds of all greenhouse gases emitted across the eu. this law will translate the paris agreement into concrete action by the member states. however, last week president trump announced that he would withdraw the united states from the paris climate change agreement. even though we know that many us states, cities and businesses are continuing or even scaling-up climate action and green investment. this is sending a dreadful signal to the rest of the world. but, thankfully, china has restated their strong commitment to the paris agreement and president macron has announced that france will do more compared to earlier commitments. so, with or without trump, climate action and green investment under the paris agreement must move ahead. i applaud that the groups here in the european parliament have decided to unanimously give a strong signal to the international community that it will support this report in plenary tomorrow. i am also grateful for the strong support the report received in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) and for the further work done ahead of the plenary to build an even stronger compromise. as a result of this work, alde, the epp and ecr groups agreed to table a set of joint amendments that will do three things: firstly, maintain the strength and emissions trajectory adopted by the envi committee. the trajectory will secure the delivery of our 2030 target under the paris agreement. secondly, it will increase the optional use of forest credits from 119 million to 280 million tons, which will help build the business case for forest-based climate measures. in the long term, our forests are crucial to build the zero-carbon economy. at the same time, we must maintain a strong driver for energy efficient and clean transport. thirdly, we will give better support to lower—income member states that have reduced their emissions significantly in earlier years. there are 17 member states that will benefit from these measures. farming is also covered in this regulation, and we will include special support for climate—efficient farmers. we must recognise the specific situation of the farming sector and ensure that they can continue to produce but protect at the same time. the compromises reached will represent a balance between delivering on the eu’s commitments on the one hand, and providing fairness for all member states and regulating the regulated sectors on the other. because of the politically balanced agreement reached and the strong signal the climate action regulation will give to the international community, i urge you all therefore to back the report in full, which includes the compromise package negotiated ahead of the plenary vote.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, over the years i have witnessed in this house the perverse mechanism of the eu continuing to further develop a failing project. in the uk, we would say that this amounted to flogging a dead horse. the eu ets is an example of this. however, in this instance, the project is one of the biggest threats to european industry and competitiveness. once again, we are expanding and strengthening its remit. this time the european commission proposal, climate action regulation implementing the paris agreement, covers all sectors that currently fall outside the eu emission trading system, with particular regard to transport, waste, environment and agriculture. the aim of this proposal is to deliver, in the relevant sectors, 30% emissions reductions by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. the paris agreement sets out the goal to keep global temperature increases well below 2 °c and to strive for no more than 1.5 °c temperature increase. consistent with these goals, the paris agreement also requires that zero net emissions must be achieved in the second half of this century. in addition, in 2009, the eu adopted its objective of 80—95% greenhouse gas emission reductions by 2050. the eu’s climate and energy policies keep perpetuating the same misguided path, continuing to be the solo leader in the futile battle against climate change, whereas the usa and others are acting in favour of progress and prosperity. the sole effect that this huge burden of climate regulation is going to have is to exacerbate the crisis already being experienced by european union industries that are forced to move offshore, taking their emissions and their jobs with them. my party and i oppose the eu climate and energy policy. we reject climate hysteria and believe that the eu should accept that the paris agreement is close to its end.
deputising for the rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their good wishes to my good friend and colleague, gerben—jan gerbrandy, who is the rapporteur on this report, and who despite doing all the heavy work on this is unable to be with us today because he has a family crisis. i am sure i speak for all this house in wishing gerben—jan and his family all the best. i would like to thank the commission for its commitment to driving down co2 emissions. i heard earlier that there are concerns about how we can get to 2050. well, nobody has ever said that tackling climate change is going to be easy, but it has to be done. even the paris agreement still only brings us back to a level where we know we were emitting too much. the damage continues to be done to the whole planet. every tonne of co2 that is emitted today will remain in the atmosphere for over a hundred years. but there is good news. we can have a green economy. we can drive the innovation and business that can address that. it is tough for farmers to change their farming practices. we understand that. we have been as firm as we can but as amenable as possible to their difficulties in making sure that farmers can associate themselves with this message and this regulation. we have heard from the deniers from – i am ashamed to say – the uk. they deny climate change, they even deny their existence as an effective political party in the uk, and have nearly been wiped out. i think everybody here agrees that climate change is a real issue and one on which action must be effected. a strong vote from this parliament tomorrow will send a message to businesses, to farmers, to industry, to consumers, and to voters and the young people of europe that we are serious about climate change. it is a compromise, sure, but it is one that we have to make and the political groups here are committed to it. thank you very much for your support everyone, and for the support from the commission.
mr president, i wish to highlight that july is scleroderma awareness month. as some colleagues will be aware, i have a lifelong commitment to raise awareness of this rare and wicked autoimmune and connective tissue disease that claimed the life of my late wife, carmen, at the age of 42. this disease, which is particularly common in females, has no known cure but early diagnosis can be of huge benefit to treatment of patients. accordingly, i ask all colleagues and their staff to go away and find out more about scleroderma so that they may better raise awareness in their member states. furthermore, i would like to pay tribute to the work of two charities, scleroderma and raynaud’s uk, and the federation of european scleroderma associations, which work so hard supporting scleroderma patients and their loved ones. (applause)
mr president, at least we are being honest about our intentions and our motivations. we are not pretending really that the purpose of these structural and cohesion funds is really to improve the economies of the recipients. if it worked, then greece would now be bailing out germany, as the biggest recipient versus the biggest donor. what it is all about, as the report says, is the visibility of the european union. in other words, if you put enough 12—star flags on things, maybe people will support the project, and thus more and more people get drawn into a nexus in which they believe that they are financially dependent on the european union. there is though a cost to be paid. if you encourage people to look for every rise in life to brussels, then they are not out making things and selling things and contributing to the robustness of the private economy, and therein lies our problem.
mr president, international partners should be, and can be, reassured that research, development and innovation in the united kingdom will continue at the same pace, if not faster, post brexit. the european union programme horizon 2020 does not focus on wealth creation from innovation: it is all about support for researchers, and that is a serious flaw in the programme. by contrast, singapore and china, for example, undertake regular and rapid updates of focused r&d to further their commercial and global advantage. if the european union is absolutely serious, then, instead of the self-congratulation that we heard in the report, this parliament should be asking the commission to focus on a new initiative, and on putting a focused team structure in place to galvanise research, exploration and exploitation.
madam president, eurozone leaders remain mired in denial. it is true that, by its miserable standards, the common currency is having a less disastrous year, transforming itself from a snail to a tortoise in terms of growth, but a fortnight ago mr dombrovskis claimed that, after its inception, the euro quickly became a symbol of prosperity for our citizens. tell that to italians, whose economy is not much bigger than it was at the turn of the century! tell it to greeks, whose death rates have soared amid the collapse of the healthcare system! mr dombrovskis says recovery is firmly under way, after having incorrectly anticipated it for several years, but this so-called eurozone recovery is akin to a drunk managing to stagger three consecutive paces in a straight line. we know it is going to lurch face first into a brick wall at any moment, because this is a flawed political construct. to trap greece and other southern economies in the same currency as germany is simply folly. these economies need their own currencies that can depreciate to protect their activity levels in the face of germany’s superior productivity path. they do not have germany’s scale, brands, r&d budgets, communications infrastructure, technical education system, export networks, harmonious industrial relations or work ethic. even their climates dictate a daily pause in activity. but instead of navigating back toward sensible economics, the eu keeps using the ideology of integration as its lodestar. even romania and bulgaria are expected to join the euro, lining them up for the same fate as has been visited upon greece. unless the people of germany are willing to fund giant and permanent transfer payments to the weaker parts, which they are not, there is no long-term case for expanding or deepening the eurozone. do not deepen it: dump it.
madam president, i would like to thank the vice-president and the commissioner for the presentation. the more integrated the eurozone is economically, the stronger the eu will be. however, with the uk looking to develop a new relationship with the eu it is really critical that we have clarity in how capital markets union (cmu) becomes a reality for the eu-27. given the important role the uk is playing in terms of market finance and given the importance of the euro as a global currency, how does this reconcile with calls to localise ccps out of the uk? secondly, with the cmu mid-term review, one of the focuses is on greening of the cmu. this is really welcome and positive, but more needs to be done, for example on the investment side. how do we ensure, commissioner and vice-president, that greening of the eu economy finance becomes mainstream? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for the congratulations and indeed we are very pleased with the result. we hope that this will lead to a different kind of relationship between the eu and the uk and that is what we are looking to do. of course we had our reasons in terms of whether we could join the eurozone or not. the timing was not right for us and i am not going to go into what would have been the consequences had we joined or not. i think it was absolutely the right decision at the time for the uk not to join, but we wish the eurozone every success because our economy depends on the eurozone being successful.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am pleased to attend this plenary session to talk about a substance which has generated a great deal of interest and debate, namely glyphosate. i hope that you will allow me a bit of time to insist on this point as it was repeatedly requested by various members of this house who asked for the debate today, and of course i had slightly different questions compared to those which i received in writing. i believe that it is of the utmost importance to reply as precisely as possible to the specific questions raised by honourable members. on the chronology of events: as you know, glyphosate is the most frequently used active substance in herbicide products in europe as it is has already been on the national markets since 1970s. it was previously subject to national approval processes. since 1 july 2002, this substance has been approved for use at european union level after a review assessment. it is currently under evaluation as regards a possible renewal of its approval. this evaluation is done following the procedures laid down in the eu legislation concerning pesticides. this is a very strict legislation which you wisely contributed to put it in place. in april 2015, in accordance with the legislation, a comprehensive assessment of all available data was carried out by the rapporteur member state, germany. this assessment included both studies that industry legally has to submit and independent peer—reviewed scientific literature. this assessment was then also peer reviewed by all other european union member state bodies and the european food safety authority (efsa) – a lot of bodies together, as you can see. an agency of the world health organization (who), the international agency for research on cancer (iarc), also carried out an assessment and concluded, in march 2015, that glyphosate is ‘probably carcinogenic’ to humans (classification group 2a). this is why, taking into account public concern, i asked efsa to ensure that the iarc assessment was fully considered in the eu peer review of glyphosate. in november 2015, efsa concluded, in contrast to iarc, that glyphosate is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard to humans. but the same conclusion was also reached by all – except one – of the regulatory agencies in the european member states: 27 agencies. in 2016-2017, the same conclusions were also reached by agencies in japan, new zealand, canada and australia – a lot of agencies worldwide. in may 2016, the joint food and agriculture organisation (fao) and who meeting on pesticide residues also reached their conclusions, taking into account the work of iarc, which was only a first step in the who assessment. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, even without mentioning tobacco, solar radiation or processed meat – alcoholic beverages are, for instance, classified by iarc in group 1 as ‘carcinogenic to humans’, contrary to glyphosate. but only glyphosate is high on the agenda in public debates. does this mean that i should label processed meat or alcoholic beverages as carcinogens, or even ban them? that is an open question. in 2016, the commission discussed a possible renewal of the approval of glyphosate with the member states. following the divergent opinions between, as i mentioned, iarc and efsa – and also between different member states – on the carcinogenic potential of glyphosate, the commission took a cautious approach, also in light of legitimate public concern. we also used the precautionary approach and therefore made a proposal to extend the expiry date of glyphosate until 31 december 2017 (at the latest!) to enable the european chemicals agency (echa) to deliver its opinion on the hazardous properties of glyphosate based on the proposal from the rapporteur member state, namely germany. in parallel, in april 2016, your house adopted a resolution asking to renew glyphosate for seven years. as always, the commission was very attentive to this expression of parliament’s position. we took good note of your support for a renewal of the approval based on scientific assessment conducted in the eu. lastly, on 15 march 2017, echa’s committee for risk assessment (rac) concluded that glyphosate should not be classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction. in recent weeks various sources have reported on the so—called ‘monsanto papers’. first, the facts. according to media reports and correspondence sent to the commission, a us court ordered the release of documents following a freedom of access to documents request, which you mentioned in your speech. i will now turn to your first question. you rightly pointed to a very important aspect: ‘in light of public concern, to ensure credible and independent scientific findings’. in this field, as in others, i heard and listened to public concerns and many questions are legitimate and i am happy to provide you once again with answers. from 2014 when i took office, i have indeed received a lot of letters, messages and emails concerning glyphosate, together with a european citizens’ initiative registered in january this year, a request for a urine sample last year, and even a citizens’ monsanto tribunal. this shows a real picture of different opinions and concerns. we are working on this. for some people, glyphosate is a symbol of intensive agriculture and strongly linked to gmos. this debate is broader than glyphosate, but this is why the need to maintain a strong scientific assessment in this context is crucial. we will also always take public concern very much into account. this is why we asked efsa and echa to indicate what impact the allegations, if confirmed, would have on the agencies’ overall assessment and conclusions on glyphosate. both echa and efsa reached the same conclusion. efsa confirmed that: ‘even if the allegations regarding ghost-writing proved to be true, there would be no impact on the overall assessment as presented in the efsa conclusion on glyphosate’. echa confirmed that: ‘the information contained in the so—called “monsanto papers” did not have an impact on the overall assessment as presented in the draft opinion of the committee for risk assessment (rac) on 15 march 2017’. this is because ‘eu experts had access to the raw data and to the original study reports’ and they produced their own independent conclusions based on the original data and not on another interpretation of it. in contrast, the articles mentioned were study reviews summarising or substantiating the industry position on glyphosate that had been presented elsewhere. these study reviews were known by all assessing bodies and are not new as they were mentioned in the declarations of interests of the participating experts. in other words, the study reviews have limited weight in the overall scientific assessment of glyphosate and, i quote, ‘would not normally on their own be sufficient for a conclusion to be reached on a harmonised classification’. this answer is from scientific bodies. the statements of both agencies have been available online since last week. overall, there is thus broad convergence between the european and international community of scientists on the fact that glyphosate is not carcinogenic, keeping an eye on public opinion and different views around the world. all agencies – in japan, canada, new zealand, australia, the eu – came to the same conclusion and only one agency, iarc, had a different opinion. it was little strange to see that so many scientific bodies agreed but we will ask once again how to move forward, keeping an eye on scientific based arguments. while individual persons may continue to disagree with this overwhelming convergence of scientific opinions, this cannot call into question the robustness of our system and we should proceed with the renewal of the approval of glyphosate as there is no reason to doubt the evidence-based arguments about the safety of the substance. therefore the commission decided, in light of public concern, to propose a renewal for ten years. in parallel, three very clear recommendations to member states were adopted last year: first, to ban the co—formulant tallowamine from glyphosate-based products; second, to minimise use in public parks, public playgrounds and gardens; and, third, to be attentive to the pre-harvest use of glyphosate. let me also recall that, even if glyphosate is approved at eu level, it is within the responsibility of member states to authorise plant protection products containing glyphosate at national level and decide on the conditions of use. they of course have the right to ban it because it concerns co-formulants. the commission is therefore not the only one to decide when it comes to pesticides. on your second sub-question, on investigation, let me stress that, in the case you refer to, the commission does not have any proof that the allegations are correct. i am not a lawyer but i know that we have a very thorough assessment. let me turn now to your second question. i can confirm that the way in which data and information is provided to the regulatory authorities and shared with the public for consideration of the approval of substances will be examined in the context of the refit evaluation of the european union pesticides legislation. indeed the commission is specifically asking the external contractor that will conduct an external study on the preparation of the refit evaluation to look into this issue. this is actually reflected in the terms of reference which are publicly available, as is everything we do. as the refit evaluation of the eu pesticide legislation and the fitness check of the general food law are still ongoing, it is a little bit too early to make assumptions or consider a different course of action at this stage. however, i would like to stress that the outcome of the fitness check of the general food law will also be publicly available, once completed, and the outcome of the refit evaluation of the eu pesticide legislation will be presented to this parliament. in the meantime, i am aware that parliament is preparing an own—initiative report on the implementation of the plant protection products regulation. the commission will of course carefully examine this report and its conclusions once it is finalised and will consider this during the preparation of the refit evaluation. i will now turn to your third question. let me start by first highlighting that the process of examining the claims made by companies to exclude the public release of certain information is, of course, directly managed by efsa and member states. such claims are considered in conjunction with the rules outlined in the plant protection products regulation and the relevant rulings of the court of justice. in this context, the court of justice rulings of november 2016 in relation to the implementation of the aarhus convention in the eu concern two important issues: first, access to confidential information related to the manufacturing and detailed composition of substances, in this case concerning the original approval of glyphosate; and, second, disclosure of studies on substances and formulated products submitted to member states in the context of product authorisation. in the first ruling the court of justice referred the case back to the general court and the proceedings before the court are still pending. as regards the protection of confidentiality and access to information at issue in this case, the commission is awaiting the outcome. i can assure you that i welcome the initiative to have more clarity in this field. there is no doubt that we need more clarity. in the second case, the court of justice defined information on emissions into the environment with regard to studies submitted for active substances in plant protection and biocidal products. the commission and the member states are currently assessing the consequences of this judgment. i would like to emphasise the following: first, at my request, the companies applying for renewal of the approval of glyphosate made available to members of parliament and stakeholders the key studies underlying the assessment of glyphosate in a reading room; and, second, in addition efsa provided members of parliament and stakeholders with access to raw data from a number of key studies, following a request for access to documents. this access is on top of the extensive documentation that had already been made available as part of the standard procedures by efsa during the peer review of glyphosate. therefore, one can only conclude that there has been a particularly high level of transparency in the specific case of glyphosate in the light of public concern. i understand that this might not be enough for some of you in this house and i am also aware that a complaint is about to be lodged with the court of justice. once again, i can only welcome the increased clarity that the court would give on this matter. let me now turn to your fourth and last question. i would like to stress that the commission, through its research and innovation programmes – such as the seventh framework programme and horizon 2020 – supports a broad body of research in plant protection to identify new low—risk products and biological control techniques. this is what i highlighted again last week in a very interesting conference in parliament on biological low—risk pesticides. let me stress again that in the seventh framework programme over eur 100 million was invested by the european union in cooperative research projects and coordination support actions in the areas of plant protection, plant health, integrated pest management, and risk assessment and diagnostics. furthermore, specifically in relation to alternatives to chemical herbicides, a horizon 2020 initiative, supported by an eu contribution of eur 7 million, is currently looking at strategies, tools and technologies for sustainable weed management. so, as you will notice, a lot of money has already been invested already in terms of research and development. with regard to sustainable plant protection more specifically, the need to find alternatives to traditional chemical solutions is also reflected in the sustainable use of pesticides directive, which aims at reducing the risks and impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment, and at promoting the use of integrated pest management and of alternative approaches or techniques such as non-chemical alternatives to pesticides. the commission audits member states to monitor implementation of the directive and also encourages member states to share best practice, identify challenges and ensure harmonisation. the commission is also undertaking several actions to increase the availability of low-risk products. these actions include prioritisation of the assessment for the renewal of potentially low-risk substances and amendment of the low-risk criteria to facilitate their identification.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the deadline for the re—approval of the use of glyphosate in the eu is rapidly approaching, and soon a decision must be made on this very important issue. although i agree that the release of recent confidential documents disclosed to the public in the us are reason for concern, we take the position that glyphosate is one of the few herbicides that our farmers have at their disposal, and compared to earlier products is safer. glyphosate is the world’s most widely used herbicide, and such products are also used in public and private gardens, as well as in agriculture. however, as much as i would like to see herbicides phased out completely, realistically this is not possible, especially in the uk where we have a very mild, damp climate which is conducive to weed growth. until an alternative product is found, i believe that we cannot remove a necessary tool from the arsenal of farmers who cultivate vast areas of land. i would, however, like to see member states give more encouragement and financial help to those farmers that wish to farm organically.
mr president, decisions involve choice and choice involves consequences, but the issue that i believe we are facing this afternoon is one of public confidence in the decisions that the european union takes. two of the issues that i have with what the commissioner opened with is how can he stand there and make the points he did when the european union expert body, the european union chemicals agency, this year said it should not be classified as a carcinogen; the who conclusion: ‘potentially’ hazardous to human health – not conclusively hazardous to health. we have lots of products out there that are ‘potentially’ hazardous, but we do not ban those. we have to draw a line somewhere in terms of being reasonable. some of my colleagues have already highlighted – and others will, i am sure – the issues, the consequences, that will come of banning this particular product, and none of them are very positive for our farmers and for our agricultural business. i have read quite widely issues about protecting wildlife. if the decision to ban this is to protect the environment, i am for it – but not based on the flawed information we have heard.
mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that we are asking farmers to meet the challenge of climate change and to provide a growing world population with a reliable food supply. only productive, competitive agriculture can do that, and the key is safe technology. so the message is absolutely clear: public health is not negotiable, but farmers need every tool in the box. this debate about glyphosate is going to be the first of many future technologies, and those debates have got to bring clarity, otherwise scientists are not going to invest in technology. it has got to bring consistency, otherwise farmers cannot plan their future. and it has got to bring confidence that the food we eat is safe. any debate in the future about technology like glyphosate has to be balanced and has to be proportionate, and that means, commissioner, the debate has to be about proven science – not about emotion.
mr president, for 40 years, we have been using this material in britain very successfully. the british authorities were quite happy to pass it for safety under the risk-based assessment. the eu likes to use the hazard-based assessment – but of course anything can be a hazard, such as the salt and pepper we put on our food; it is the degree that counts. the canadian authorities have crawled all over glyphosate and they cannot find anything wrong with it. and, of course, over these 40 years we have had canaries in the mine – these are the sprayer operators who handle the concentrated material. there would be queues in doctors’ surgeries if there was a problem, but there are not queues in doctors’ surgeries. the health and safety executive in britain, which looks at accidents on farms, sees far more problems with falling from heights, getting tangled in machinery, drowning in slurry or drowning in grain – exposure to pesticides is way down their list. the world health organization says this material is no more carcinogenic than sitting in front of a log fire, cutting human hair, working night shifts, being exposed to dry cleaning fluid or drinking the argentinian drink ‘mate’. the who says that this material is far less carcinogenic than drinking coffee, drinking alcohol or eating processed meat. we are being very silly here. the burden of proof is obviously on the manufacturers, and they have always got in mind the thalidomide scandal. it now costs eur 200 million and nine years to get a material through this process – only a large company can afford to do it. the green lobby are determined to kill agriculture.
mr president, i have listened very intently to this debate, and i just want to say that of course we all want a healthy countryside and a good environment for us all to live in; so do our farmers. no one in this house has a monopoly on virtue in this particular matter. our farmers are responsible farmers. i represent the east of england, which is a major agricultural sector in the united kingdom. our responsible farmers rely on good scientific, evidence—based information for what they are doing. from what i have heard from the commission this afternoon, that is exactly what we have. i hope that the commission will bring an end to all the uncertainty on this, and confirm once and for all the authorisation for glyphosate. it has been very clear: we are hearing repetitions of the same sort of scaremongering, the same things. listen again to what the commissioner had to say, look more closely at what he said to us all. so let us put an end to all this nonsense, and let us give certainty to our farmers – our responsible farmers.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, when discussing the democratic republic of the congo in this chamber six months ago, there was some hope that the deal brokered by the catholic bishops’ conference would pave the way for elections by the end of this year, ending the political stalemate, and president kabila’s 16 year—long rule. today, no progress has been made in implementing the terms of that agreement and the general security situation has actually worsened. this is particularly the case in the kasai province, where security forces and members of the kamuina nsapu militia continue to clash regularly. reports suggest that in the last five months, 500 people have been killed in the fighting and a further 1.3 million people have fled the area. in north kivu province, meanwhile, concerns remain about the activities of rebel groups including the march 23rd movement and the islamist militia known as allied democratic forces. the latter has been accused by the government of being responsible for an attack on a prison just a couple of days ago – an attack in which 11 people were killed and over 900 prisoners escaped. as similar security threats manifest themselves across the country, the urgency for president kabila to go and to have fresh elections to be called becomes ever more necessary. certainly, his justification that the country cannot afford elections is frankly ridiculous.
mr president, i welcome the fact that the eu has imposed sanctions against many of those responsible for violence in the drc, but the rest of the world, as we have heard, is standing by while mass grave after mass grave is being uncovered in kasai. just three questions. firstly, three million people are displaced in the drc, half a million children are at risk of malnutrition, where is the global outrage? the un is struggling to raise 60 million in emergency funds. how can we ensure that funding targets are met and humanitarian access is secured? secondly, accountability. we do need to assist in gathering evidence and building cases to bring those responsible for murdering civilians to justice. thirdly, addressing the root causes is crucial, not just in kasai, but the entire drc is mired in crisis. president kabila, as we have heard, is part of the problem and we need serious international pressure to kick—start the electoral process. i urge you to put this on the agenda of the foreign affairs council on the 19th and deliver a strategy to tackle the crisis, together with our international partners. failing this, destabilisation of the entire central african region will force its way up the agenda in a matter of mere months.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, two years since the conflict began, yemen is suffering from an extreme humanitarian crisis. two million people have been displaced, and over half of the country’s population lacks access to safe drinking water or sufficient food supplies. last month, as has been mentioned, saw the outbreak of a cholera epidemic which has already affected upwards of 100 000 people and claimed the lives of another 800. with humanitarian assistance already struggling to reach those in need, there is continued concern that the houthi—held port of hodeidah may be the target of an attack on the saudi-led coalition. given that approximately 75% of yemen’s food supplies enter the country via this port, the devastating consequences of its destruction cannot be underestimated. the campaign continues to be marked by the disproportionate level of civilian casualties and very poor targeting of saudi ordinance in their air campaign. the growing footprint of al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula (aqap) in parts of yemen is also of grave concern, as are reports that suggest that the saudi coalition has coordinated its attacks against the houthis alongside aqap. this is particularly worrying given the new us administration’s continued hints that it may seek to play a more decisive role in supporting the saudi-led coalition.
madam president, the fact that we are only now having this debate is a shameful indictment of the foreign policy values of this place. not only is a humanitarian crisis a disaster for the people of yemen, but also the wider region. the inability to act decisively brings instability to the rest of the world. with the saleh houthi regime refusing to negotiate with the un special envoy, we are no nearer a solution to the crisis; thus, we can expect more bombings and suffering. one ray of hope is the rise of the southern movement. it is possible that we can encourage peace and stability in the south by working with them towards a federal solution, even – as i’ve been saying for the past three years – if it threatens the integrity of the yemeni state, which in my opinion is already a busted flush. we must listen to the south yemenis’ peaceful call for a say in their future. surely it is better than sitting back and continuing to let yemen be a battleground for wider saudi and iranian interests.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, freedom of expression and public discourse has always been, and always will be, the enemy of the status quo of the state – whatever that state may be. we see attempts in repressive regimes to clamp down upon that, but even in free western civilised nations we now start to see efforts by the state to clamp down on freedom. and whilst in the past that freedom of discourse might have been in the pub or in a public area, now, of course, it moves to the internet. the very concept of social media being clamped down on by the state – often using fear as the excuse – is completely against all concept of freedom, and i address this as well to the british government, who have spoken very much about trying to clamp down on these things, using fear of terror as a reason. the one thing i will say, though, is that the idea of guidelines imposed from the european state upon freedom of expression on social media is in itself something of a contradiction. free the airwaves, free social media, let’s all speak as we wish.
mr president, along with four other members, i have just returned from the election observation mission in kosovo, where we heard from many reliable sources about significant interference and provocation from belgrade, including intimidation of candidates and voters during the campaign period, leading in some cases to violence, including inter-ethnic conflict between different serbian interests. the organisation of buses and trains from serbia to kosovo bearing nationalistic slogans in january and carrying likely bought voters last weekend, is also to be deplored. outside of the political arena, i witnessed the deep yearning, commitment and action of many balkan young people who simply want to live side by side in peace, and whose vision shames the old order. whilst old warlords and vested interests, both serbs and albanians, continue to prevaricate, slowing down the accession process, young people of all ethnicities crossed the mitrovica bridge as part of the musicians without borders rock school.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the agenda for this summit highlights some of the big challenges ahead: security, migration and asylum, turkey, as well – as others have said – as some discussions on the brexit negotiations. topics we have discussed before and no doubt topics that we will discuss again; but each time we have to ask ourselves: are we any closer to solutions and real action? if you will allow me, let me start with the british general election. an election in which the conservative party lost seats but not enough to lose power, and where the opposition gained seats but not enough to gain power and ended up 56 seats behind, and just as in any other country, for example the netherlands at the moment, the largest party will seek to form a government with support from a smaller party. but the uk government expects to begin negotiations later this month, for we have kept you waiting long enough. just as in this parliament, the largest party will need to build wider coalitions in order to pass legislation. now if that means addressing concerns over civil liberties while drafting new laws to tackle the threat of terrorism, to my mind a wider coalition is not necessarily a bad thing. can i also take this opportunity to thank colleagues from across the political spectrum for their messages of condolences and solidarity after the recent terrorist attacks in both manchester and my home city of london. we may be divided on our politics but we are united in not wanting to allow the terrorists to win. (applause) i hope the council will understand the importance of tackling terrorism at different levels. at the international level: military cooperation without undermining nato, better data sharing between national law enforcement agencies; at the national level: upholding the rule of law, our shared values and the security of our citizens, as well as making sure that any shared intelligence is actually acted upon; and at a local community level: encouraging local projects to tackle radicalisation at its roots. but security is just one of the issues facing us. the migration crisis continues as does the eu-turkey deal, and the ecr believes that the eu should focus on a new relationship based not on the false promise of membership, but on an honest relationship based on cooperation. because while the deal with turkey appears to be holding for now, the council must seek consensus from all member states to effectively tackle the migrant crisis, in case that agreement breaks down, by getting the basics right – processing asylum applications quickly and efficiently, returning those who do not qualify to their country of origin, agreeing clear criteria for qualification, based on the geneva convention – and by not continuing to pursue a struggling relocation scheme without the full support of all member states. our discussions on the challenges will continue way beyond this summit and future ones, but how many times do we have to discuss them before our voters see real progress? while others will call for new rules, the ecr group calls for the eu to make what we already have work better. while others will call for more agencies, the ecr group calls for more action and while others will call for further political integration, the ecr group calls for political cooperation for a reformed eu which does less, but does it better.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i know that a lot of the people here are very pleased with the result of the uk general election and view it as a victory for the eu. let me give you a sense of perspective: in the 2015 general election, just 13% of voters voted for parties – namely ukip, which was the only one – that wanted to leave the european union. last thursday, over 85% of british voters voted for parties on a manifesto not just of leaving the european union, but of leaving the single market as well. in fact, on the morning of the general election, 70% of the british public – whichever way they had voted in the referendum – simply wanted the government to get on and complete and conclude brexit. i know that theresa’s terrible campaign has cast a bit of doubt on this, and i saw that emmanuel macron yesterday – a call echoed by mr verhofstadt this morning – said that there is still time for the united kingdom to change its mind; that it does not have to leave. let me tell you that the only certainty in this mess is that we will be leaving. but that has not stopped a parade of former prime ministers and of former european commissioners from lining up and attempting to get the british government to backslide on its commitments. there is now a big push, a big drive, for us to opt for a norway-style option, and i have to confess that your chief negotiator, mr barnier, is right: it took theresa may nine months to trigger article 50, and by the time the talks start it will be nearly four months since it was triggered, so i do accept that we go into this, as a british government, with a british prime minister in a very weak position. and she is caught in a bit of a pincer movement, because the political class would like us to stay in the customs union and to stay in the single market, but the people have made it perfectly clear they want us to leave both of those things. and i would say this: that unless theresa may – and it is difficult for her, because she never really believed in brexit – stands up at the summit next week, in those negotiations, and makes it absolutely clear that she is not giving an inch – that we are leaving the single market – then her own party will get rid of her, and then yet more time will be lost in the article 50 process.
mr president, i have just noticed something and wondered if everybody else had noticed the same thing: that all the leaders today are speaking in english. they do not normally speak in english. this is extremely strange, and i thought my good friend president jean claude juncker here had said that english was no longer the language of the european parliament. is there something i have missed here, ladies and gentlemen?
mr president, today in this chamber the political elites are gloating and cheering. they have overseen the resistance parties failing to take power in austria and france, ukip decimated and a conservative brexit government weakened. political elitism is a doctrine of servitude, but its forces are strong, determined and well financed and it is attacking and destroying its enemies one by one. they infiltrated ukip; they isolated, ignored and removed true conservative party brexiteers; they attacked and removed the voices of resistance from our radio and tv stations. they attack and abuse the president who was elected in the united states of america, yet celebrate the globalist placeman they installed in france. those who love freedom: patriots, democrats, brexiteers, must say no more. we must regroup and return fire. we must fight for a true brexit, not a fake brexit.
mr president, since the united kingdom voted to leave the european union, the response from the eu has been ‘more europe’. it has announced its intention to speed up the capital markets union. it has increased the size of the juncker fund by a staggering eur 185 billion and announced the formation of a common defence fund. there are also suggestions that eu funding in the future will be contingent upon national acceptance of the european public prosecutor’s office and that non-eurozone members will have to adopt the single currency. this is staggering authoritarianism and control-freakery in terms of a political system. it is all very well suggesting that the so-called populist parties across europe are now in demise; i would suggest and ask the eu to very, very seriously consider whether some of the announcements that they have made and the demands that are now being placed on member states will actually be counterproductive to what they want to do in terms of stopping populism.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to thank very much president heine for coming here today and for her clear leadership and inspiration to the high ambition group. for those of us who have struggled perhaps a little bit with how to address donald trump, what tone to adopt towards him – after all, he is a legitimately elected world leader – he has now solved my problem, because i am very happy to publicly and loudly say that this, and his action, is reckless. it is myopic and it is totally irresponsible. it is made even more contemptible by the fact that we now know that he has decided that climate change is real. he has stopped his denying of it. he says it is real and indeed his ambassador to the un, nikki haley, has confirmed that for us. so that makes his decision even more contemptible. he is not even pretending any more that he does not believe in climate change. we can also see that he has a complete misunderstanding of the paris agreement and what the us’s obligations are under that agreement. he seems to think that it will be giving us industry an extremely unfair position and totally ignoring the fact that actually it gives the us a huge amount of flexibility in how they deal with making sure that they stand up for their obligations. and given the modest commitments that the us is being asked to make – let us face it, for many people what the us is being asked under paris is actually still way underperforming europe and many of the member states in europe – it seems even more the case that ‘the donald’ should be asked exactly where he gets his information and his advice from, because with higher per capita emissions than the world average, the us has a moral duty to significantly reduce its emissions and ensure that global average temperatures remain below 2 degrees c. maybe we should say that the next human-caused climate disasters should be called hurricane donald, super drought pruitt, or tropical cycle bannon, because that is going to be his legacy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, president trump is not the only threat to our global environment and the beautiful island states such as yours, president heine, and thank you for coming to talk to us. climate change sceptics in the uk also threaten european global protection. the british elections delivered a disastrous result for our prime minister, and ms may battles on – she has appointed a new environment secretary, mr michael gove. gove has a shocking record. when he was education secretary, gove wanted to get climate change off the school curriculums. he voted to sell off all of england’s publicly-owned and protected forests and woodlands. he has voted 12 times against measures to prevent climate change, including opposing limits on greenhouse gas emissions. he supports fracking and he supports drilling in national parks. he has opposed refitting homes to stop carbon loss. to quote a past colleague of this house, caroline lucas, who is now an mp: ‘michael gove is an environmental disaster waiting to happen’. during the brexit referendum campaign, gove stated that he had enough of experts. well, frankly, the experts and the public have had enough of him, too, just as they have had of president trump. colleagues, please be tough during the brexit negotiations when it comes to the environment, as you will be with mr trump. climate deniers like gove need to know they have international treaty commitments that they cannot evade. he will try to slip and slide on environmental agreements. so, given the election results last week, it remains to be seen whether the uk will actually leave the eu. but if we do, the uk, just like the us, must fulfil its international environmental obligations. environmental challenges do not stop at borders. our environment, our planet, is interlinked, especially when it comes to the most vulnerable states on the planet. we must work together to protect it in the uk, in the us, and of course driven here by the european union.
madam president, may i, from this hemicycle, send congratulations to president trump for his wisdom and courage in pulling america out of the climate agreement in paris and resisting the pressure from the green lobby, of which we have heard so much today. in fact, he has given america a huge competitive advantage in terms of industry and exports, which will be damaging to europe if we cling to the outmoded climate passion that we have heard in this hemicycle. some colleagues will be familiar with the peer-reviewed paper published recently by danish statistician bjørn lomborg, in which he estimates the cost of paris at usd 100 billion by the end of the century, when the impact on climate will be 0.17 °c. in other words, an eye—watering amount of money for virtually no return. this is pure virtue signalling and gesture politics; we should be ashamed of ourselves.
madam president, last month colleagues from across six nations this side of the house wrote to president trump, urging him to pull out of the paris climate agreement – and he did. he is putting american jobs first. he is fighting against global interests; he is protecting the nation state; he is trying to protect his citizens from terror. he is a president that has the guts to stand up to the global elites and their green hobbies. he puts american people first, instead of virtue signalling with other people’s money. trump’s policies, like brexit, have really challenged the status quo in this place, and that is why you are all so frustrated now. so good luck, president trump. i wish you well, along with steve bannon, your chief strategist. you are winning, and we are winning, despite the rhetoric that goes on – and despite ms may really messing up. but i am sure all my colleagues across this house would like to join me in wishing president trump a very happy birthday. (applause from some quarters)
mr president, i am in favour of the paris agreement. i cannot help noticing the sudden change in tone, though, of its other supporters. a year ago, they were telling us that it was a bare minimum, that it was inadequate, and suddenly, the moment donald trump pulled out, it became central to the survival of human civilization. but we will leave that to one side. it seems to me sensible to have countries working voluntarily on this kind of issue. what is not sensible is to defend it – as so many in this house have been doing – as an economic project, the idea that it is all about creating green jobs and so on. to see what is wrong with that argument, consider frédéric bastiat’s example of the broken glass. if somebody went round smashing windows, that would – on exactly the same argument – create lots of jobs, because there would be lots of jobs needed for glaziers, people to drive the new glass, people to install them and all the rest of it; but of course we can all see that we would still be worse off. if we are prepared to pay an economic price, fine – that is a perfectly valid convincing argument. but for heaven’s sake, let us not insult people’s intelligence by claiming that this is somehow going to boost global growth.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, brexit was a wake-up call. the eu must reform to survive. we need a social eu based on democracy, human rights and national progressive sovereignty; but i have concerns that the powers that be are not listening. instead we hear much talk of a multi-speed europe, deeper integration, austerity and an eu army, and i believe that is a mistake. the last thing we need, i believe, is more integration with eu funds skewed towards military research. people do want more participation, more solidarity and more democracy, not guns and corporate bail-outs. the north of ireland voted against brexit, but our democratic vote has been ignored despite an international agreement, a good friday agreement that is lodged at the united nations and which must be protected in all of its parts. sinn féin believe that ireland, north and south, belongs in europe, but we want a europe of equals, a europe that will cherish all the children of the nation equally, and where no one will be ignored. you could do yourself a great service, if many people here have not already done so, by reading and perhaps adopting the irish proclamation.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to say to the commissioner that you talk about a refoundation in europe based on values anchored in effective democratic institutions which will promote a prosperous economy and a fair society. we, in the uk, will continue our journey to independence which will give us all of these. the vision of the eu is precisely the opposite. it is a vision based on opportunism, corporatism and neo-colonialism. it is anchored in institutions which are profoundly anti-democratic and which have delivered poverty, hopelessness and division in many of your constituent nations. one only has to look at the utter destruction wrought upon the economies of southern europe. do you think that the damage caused, such as 48% youth unemployment in greece can be repaired by a euro rail ticket? this is so blatantly insane. it is comparable to using a sticking plaster on a bullet wound. the only way the nations of the eu can achieve stability, growth and fairness is to follow the uk out of the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, until the end of june, malta holds the incumbent presidency of the council of the european union. for many politicians, it seems to be a good moment to attack this small republic. this debate is linked to the panama papers committee working on tax avoidance, tax evasion and money laundering. the maltese financial services sector has come under increasing pressure from abroad, especially after the reappointment of keith schembri and konrad mizzi in the maltese government – both of them appear in the panama papers. nevertheless, it is not the european parliament that should interfere in the investigation of a sovereign nation state. many meps in this house are exploiting this debate to push forward their agenda to ban economic competition between countries. by using outdated buzz words like ‘fair tax competition’ and talking about a ‘level playing field’, these eu federalists are trying to cover up their real aspirations – creating a big supranational taxation union. this debate shows to the people of the uk why it is so important for britain to leave the eu by way of a hard brexit, which means no membership of the single market, no membership of a political union, and no membership of this socialist taxation union.
mr president, the panama papers have given rise to many scandals and corruption, and it is quite right that we create laws to prevent such waste and deal with those scandals. so why doesn’t the commission deal with the biggest scandals of all: the waste of the european union of the taxpayers of europe? take, for example, the parliament building in brussels, built in 1993 for eur 1 billion, and now we are told today that it’s potentially about to fall down and needs rebuilding for eur 393 billion. or the new wilfried martens building built for eur 125 million – 15% more than ordinary buildings of the type would have been built. the european house of history: eur 60 million. the parliamentary building: eur 422 million. and now we have our own meps’ cocktail bar for eur 1.9 million as well – there is the scandal, ladies and gentlemen. thank goodness we in britain are going to leave the european union, so that we don’t have to deal with those costs and waste anymore.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, the lack of awareness of efsi is a problem. i know this very well from my constituency in wales. it is a particular issue in the cultural sector, a sector which makes an increasing contribution to the economy. this report recognises that sectors such as social infrastructure, health and education are under-represented, receiving only 4% of approved efsi financing. culture and education represent a tiny percentage of that 4%. i am pleased that the commission has already announced that it is frontloading the creative europe guarantee facility through efsi. but concern was expressed in the committee on culture and education that funding had been diverted away from the horizon 2020 budget and, despite being assured that the money would still reach the university sector through efsi, this has not happened. so that must be put right and the funding restored.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would agree with much of what our colleague there has just said: that if we look at the uk, for example – and this is supposed to be one of the world’s strongest economies at the moment – we have 30% of children classified as poor, and two-thirds of them are in working households. so there’s something to be said about the wage level which is not actually allowing families to live and children to be properly cared for. so when we’re looking at the commission’s recommendation and the council’s buy-in, we know that they recognised – as parliament does; we see it in our development aid policies – that those first thousand days of life are critical. and yet we look at some of the measures we take, and the fundamental rights agency has reported more than once that the link between national child poverty rates, the country—specific recommendations formulated and the measures suggested in the national reform programmes are not always clear. so can we join up our thinking to make sure we have the effect that we want?
madam president, according to statistics released in march 2017, child poverty in the uk has risen by over 400 000 since the conservatives took power. twenty-nine per cent of children in my own constituency of the east midlands live under these conditions. the situation is similar throughout europe, and indeed is even worse in many places. what are we doing? how can any child in europe be left behind so badly? for all the hot air of politicians throughout this continent and all the failed policies, we continue to fail our young people. it is simply not good enough. gdp growth and statistics mean nothing if children have nothing on the dinner table. we cannot go on like this, and we must ensure real change before we fail an entire generation.
madam president, the commission has already acknowledged that austerity has increased inequalities, social injustice and poverty in europe. children are among the most impacted and remain the group at the highest risk of poverty and social exclusion. we need, therefore, to have decisive political action so as not to exclude a great part of the next generation. as a member of the intergroup on children’s rights, i am proud that my political group is pushing hard for the creation of a child guarantee, in line with the investing in children recommendations, ensuring that every child in europe at risk of poverty – including refugees – has access to free healthcare, free education, free childcare, decent housing and adequate nutrition. children must also play a role in decision—making that concerns them, and the children’s commission on poverty in the uk involves young people investigating peer poverty and making concrete policy recommendations at all levels. the nuj and the church action on poverty have also worked with young people to produce excellent guidelines, which will end the demonisation of the poor by the right—wing media.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the rapporteur has tried very hard, but for us the platform report is far too restrictive, so we have tabled an alternative motion giving our more open, flexible vision. let us remember that the aim of the digital single market is to help european companies to scale up in the same way that american companies do: an innovation—friendly environment. for that, there cannot be a one—size—fits—all approach to the sharing economy – especially for platforms. no two platforms are the same. you would not regulate banks and gardening centres in the same way, so why are we doing that with platforms? platforms are disruptive, but that is good. they offer new flexible employment options and better choice for consumers. the sharing economy matches unmet demand with unused resources; it is an economist’s dream. we want european platforms, but consumers do not care where the platform comes from. they want a good service, and the sharing economy empowers consumers in a way that has never been seen before. it also empowers workers. if platforms lose trust, they lose business and they lose their workers, so we need to be very careful in how we go forward with this. we have got a huge opportunity to shape a new vision, and we should get on with it and not restrict it.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, when you state subsidise something, you encourage more of it. farmers set aside land more regularly, because the european union pays them to do so. we pay child benefit because it is socially desirable to encourage people to have children. this debate concerns european political parties. you will, i am sure, recall the old joke suggesting that the word ‘politics’ derives from the greek ‘poly’, meaning ‘many’, and ‘ticks’, meaning ‘blood sucking insects’. the irony of an mep saying this is not lost on me, but we are subsidising politicians. european political parties do not appear on ballot papers; they do not form governments; they do not even correspond to the political groups in this place. they exist because we subsidise them. if we actually needed them, they would exist without subsidy. let us save the taxpayers’ money and find out whether or not we really need them, shall we?
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, all the talk here has been about what the eu can and should do to enable growth, employment and innovation in europe. i have an idea that to all of you might seem strange and against all precedent, but will, i think, work. do nothing. in fact, stop what you are doing now. roll it back. let our nation-states do what they think is best for their peoples. every nation is different, every nation has different strengths, circumstances and psyches. your overarching one-size-fits-all strategies simply do not work and will only cause more hardship across our continent. stop trying to harmonise everything. all your big plans do is give influence to the tens of thousands of lobbyists and their paymasters in tax-eating mega businesses and ngos which infest your corridors of power and restrict innovation. let nations set their own tax rates. let them do what they think best. let national governments and their peoples again have the freedom they need to innovate and to create employment. this incessant desire to do something is actually a drag on innovation and employment. do not follow the five-year plan mentality of social cooperative-style ideology. you cannot legislate yourselves into prosperity. step back. stop piling administrative burdens onto businesses and governments and let people work in their own enlightened economic self-interest. innovation happens only when people have the freedom to innovate. forcing people into your perception of what they should do is not only morally wrong: it is counterproductive. resist the prescriptive urge. that is the only path to prosperity. this constant desire to do something, anything, merely brings into existence a boa constrictor that chokes life and spirit from free peoples. resist it. let small businesses breathe. take your fingers off your legislative trigger and burn some of the red tape you have already created. we will all be much happier for it. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from massimiliano salini)
author. – madam president, the alleged abduction of azerbaijani citizen afgan mukhtarli on georgian soil is an extremely concerning and serious case, particularly given his background as a journalist who has fled there in search of a safe haven from persecution by the azerbaijani authorities. allegations that the georgian security services may have in some way been complicit with these events is also of deep concern, and i welcome the calls in the resolution today for a full investigation of these claims. investigative journalism that seeks to uncover corruption and abuses of justice is vital in all countries, but especially so in countries such as azerbaijan, which are marked by distinct deficiencies in the democratic processes and the rule of law. incidents such as this undermine the efforts to encourage journalists such as mukhtarli to continue their work in freedom, and to believe that sanctuary can be found if necessary. i hope, as investigations into the affair proceed, that we will at the very least see the release of mukhtarli, and that all charges filed by the azerbaijani authorities against him in this regard are dropped.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in 2014 the eu allowed pakistan access to gsp+, an exceptional tool to help kick-start the economy, and which, crucially, encourages progress on improving human rights. it has proved its value in many countries, but i question whether this is the case in pakistan. a parliament delegation visited pakistan in april and, from our meetings with government officials and civil society, it became glaringly clear that a lack of the rule of law permeates pakistani society, and human rights are violated instead of advanced. in march 2017, military courts that can try civilians were reinstated for two more years. the basic rights of foreigners brought to trial are trampled on, with no access to consular rights. people who work for ngos face harassment, arrest or, worse, death. how many people are on death row under the vague blasphemy laws? we do not know, because there is no transparency. anyone going about their business can be accused of blasphemy and then lynched by mobs. those who belong to vulnerable groups like the ahmadis live their lives in fear, with no democratic rights, yet the government fails to protect them. it is high time to see real progress on human rights and the strengthening of the civil judiciary in pakistan. if not, gsp+ has to be reviewed.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, our non-legislative and non—binding resolutions quite often lead to complaints from third countries of factual inaccuracies. today, i intend to concentrate only on one aspect of what is in the resolution and do not in any way seek to take away from some of the very accurate comments that have been made by colleagues, whilst recognising that there are various inaccuracies as well. any consideration by an independent and informed eye of this resolution actually betrays an acceptance that external and externally sponsored internal actors in pakistan are facilitating the terrorist targeting of innocent civilians. the people of pakistan have carried a very heavy burden on behalf of the international community for a very long time – sometimes on very weak shoulders. but it remains the case that our eu policy to support pakistan and the people of pakistan in facing the challenges of terrorism remains the right approach. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – when a certain mind-set of individuals attack, maim and kill european citizens in paris we all say that is wrong, but i say this to you, colleagues: when that mind-set of individuals attack us, they attack us for our values, and it is that same mind-set that then attacks innocent children in peshawar. if we have the right to stand by our values, we must also stand by those innocent children when they are attacked.
mr president, the urgent resolution on pakistan is regrettable, misguided and misleading. i stand against abuse of human rights, wherever it may arise, but such grave allegations as these should be based on fact, not fantasy. the despicable crimes detailed are just that: crimes, against the law of the land. they are repugnant to the majority of pakistani people and condemned by the government. to suggest that the state is behind them, has condoned them or turns a blind eye to them is simply not true. and this parliament will demean itself if it supports the resolution. interestingly, the text makes no mention of the delegation of the committee on foreign affairs (afet) to pakistan last april, when we were welcome to raise any thorny issue we chose in the presence of senior government authorities, opposition parties, ngos, think tanks and civilians, unlike similar trips to india. pakistan relies on our help to deliver on human rights and the rule of law, as a genuine ally and economic partner of the eu and the west. this resolution sends the wrong signals altogether. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i am against the death penalty. but if you mention the death penalty, how many times have you criticised one of the biggest proponents of the death penalty: the united states of america?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, indonesia and the eu do enjoy very good relations, and, as the trade rapporteur, i am working to strengthen our trade and economic relations with indonesia. however, it is important – as mr lenaers said – that friends speak openly and honestly to each other. the jailing of the governor of jakarta for blasphemy, the public flogging of two homosexual men and the other negative developments taking place in indonesia seriously undermine our relationship. i urge the indonesian government to review its blasphemy law, which puts religious minorities under threat and encourages persecution. i also urge it to review the application of sharia law, which i think is being abused even under its own terms and is certainly being used by certain sections of society to discriminate against lgbti persons. that has no place in a modern democracy. indonesia should act to keep itself a safe country and to keep good relations with the western world, including the european union.
no, just to confirm that the ecr group will endorse and support the position of the epp in asking for a delay in the vote, as suggested by commissioner hahn.
mr president, it is always about the money, is it not. how much time we spend in this chamber talking about transfers of cash! we never think about the debilitating effect it can have on individuals, on whole professions, consultants and contractors, and the people who have learned how to make a living out of the brussels institution, even on whole nations who are encouraged to look beyond their borders for every rise in life. we have evolved a whole special vocabulary to talk about how we keep the money going round. for example, the word ‘greed’ is always used for somebody who has a claim on somebody else’s money. it is never used for somebody who wants to keep his own resources. the word ‘solidarity’ is used when we european politicians arrange a transfer. i would make one warning, one note of caution. if you vote for politicians who have promised to give you somebody else’s money, do not complain when they take your money to spend on somebody else, or indeed to spend on themselves.
mr president, the collaborative economy in areas such as travel and leisure has had a large potential to enhance the everyday lives of citizens and to create quality jobs. but it must be regulated responsibly to protect from exploitation workers and consumers involved in or relying upon these new business models. equally, it is essential to ensure that taxation and other public policy priorities are regulated by this and are dealt with properly in the collaborative economy. the text of this report reflects these concerns and i was pleased to vote for it.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we are here discussing the spending of eu funds, and money which rightfully belongs to the taxpayer, to be given to moldova in what is known as macro-financial assistance. i see plenty of politics here, and plenty of expectations being placed on moldova in return for the cash, but let us be honest here: moldova ranks at a miserable 127th place in transparency international’s measure of corruption, lower down than pakistan and communist cuba. the explanatory statement that comes with this report says that the free trade agreement between the european union and moldova has contributed to the process of economic recovery. well, that is what free trade does! if only the european union actually focused on breaking down barriers to trade rather than creating them, perhaps it would be less of a negative force throughout the world. the economic freedom index places moldova worse than countries like rwanda and swaziland when it comes to being attractive to trade and investment. the solution, here again, is not to give moldova more money: the solution is for moldova to become more competitive. is giving so much money to a country so notorious for official corruption and economic poor performance really a good use of taxpayers’ money? for all our fine words, this is in essence foreign aid being given by taxpayers, so, surely to goodness, it should meet a common-sense definition of what foreign aid is for.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this report calls for the harmonisation of european standards, an unnecessary proposal which i cannot support. the uk already has a high standard of products which are recognised across the world as being trustworthy and high quality. this is a tradition that existed long before we joined the european union or it was created. creating a european standard puts this reputation at risk, as not all member states are yet able to produce products and services at the same high standard. indeed, even testing centres for eu standards cannot yet guarantee that products produced under this proposal are all of the same quality. this is dangerous and it could serve to drive down standards and create an atmosphere of mistrust. it is a good job that we in the united kingdom voted to leave the european union before irresponsible european law can have a detrimental effect on our economy.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, last march the ecdpc and the who released data showing that new tb cases and deaths in the 53 countries of the who european region declined each year by 4.3% and 8.5% respectively between 2011 and 2015. however, this decline was not mirrored in vulnerable groups for tb infection, such as people living with hiv, prisoners and migrants, where new tb—hiv co—infections increased by 40% over the same period. of greater concern is that this increase coincides with persistently high rates of drug-resistant tb, which threatens progress towards eliminating tb by 2030. similarly, the incidence of viral hepatitis was also rising in vulnerable groups. in my opinion, national governments should rapidly implement screening programmes in order to identify those people in need of treatment.
mr president, i would like to thank the colleagues who worked on this report. the eu must adopt a strong approach on this issue, especially at a time of deteriorating human-rights conditions and increasing conflicts around the world. of the many pressing issues covered in this report, i would like to highlight the role of women and girls in conflict. women must play a leading role in conflict prevention and reconciliation and we must never forget the role of victims and survivors in peace building. their testimonies are hugely important. i meet and work with women survivors of sexual violence in the western balkans, especially in kosovo – women who have suffered abuse through the conflict there and who, years later, are still waiting for recognition, support and justice. kosovo’s leaders must live up to their commitments and finally provide that support on the ground. as with so many women around the world who have survived war crimes and seen their rights and their bodies violated, these women’s voices must be heard for true peace and justice.
mr president, there is no question that today’s leaders and decision-makers have let down the younger generation. young people today face continuous precarious employment as a way of life. the eu must take a lead in establishing workers’ rights in the new emerging gig economy, with online platforms providing temporary uncertain work to millions. the internet age has opened up many new opportunities for a dynamic, vibrant economy, but we must not compromise on people’s rights to decent work – and that includes people with disabilities. i hope that the eu follows through on ensuring high-quality employment for young people and marginalised people and i will continue to fight for british youth to enjoy the benefits of those programmes too.
mr president, the cell door slammed shut behind him. he remained leaning against the bolted metal door for a few seconds before pacing across the cell – 10 paces in all. he still couldn’t really believe it. what had the judge said? ‘you must pay for your criminal actions: take him down’. what had he done? he had gone fishing. just a bit of fun. the catch was unimportant. what was the technical term? ‘common fisheries policy prohibited recreational angling catch’. how was he to know that he was only allowed to catch two bass, that the third – he hadn’t asked it to bite, it just had, and it made him a criminal. how did you get banged up for going fishing? the world was truly absurd. this could be a short story by kafka; in its implications, this report is both frightening and absurd. you are thinking of the stuff of dystopian nightmares and not fit for the real world and a tyranny to ordinary people and ordinary fishermen throughout europe.
mr president, british citizens living in eu countries and eu citizens living in the uk have been suffering acute anxiety since last year’s referendum in the uk. eu citizenship rights are under serious threat, despite being enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. theresa may’s offer to give residency to some eu nationals if they jump through hoops and pay for the privilege is neither fair nor generous. indeed, it is an insult to people who have lived and worked in the uk for years. and what of the million or so who will not meet the five-year residency rule, many of whom are eastern european and roma, told to go home by emboldened racists? the tory government, under theresa may’s shambolic leadership, is responsible for dividing our communities and whipping up xenophobia. a year on from the referendum and we are still no closer to a clear answer on the future of citizens living on both sides of the channel. this is simply unacceptable.
madam president, thank you. prime minister muscat, several times in your remarks this morning you spoke of the small size of malta. you even praised the president of estonia’s phrase that europe is made up of small nations and states that have not yet realised they are small. those remarks send out a message that being small is something that cannot stand up in the rest of the world. may i remind you that, in the top 40 countries of the world, singapore, hong kong, israel and switzerland are countries that are small but have larger gdps than most of the nations represented in this house? the united kingdom, my country, has the fifth largest in the world. on your flag is the george cross, something your nation won for standing up against the aggression of a larger entity. your remarks are a shame on those people who believe that size does not matter, that only with the bravery, the spirit, the heart and the goodwill of people in staying strong and true to proper values, can they stand forward and move on in the world. you should not think that being small makes you insignificant, as you suggest.
madam president, the title of this debate and the commission’s proposals sound quite innocuous – disclosure of income tax information by certain undertakings – and is aimed at multinational companies with a high turnover. but it raises more questions than it answers. what, for example, does it tell us about the commission’s future intentions? we know the commission wants big companies to supply it with information on their eu and non-eu operations for publication in an eu register. the list is modest in length, although no doubt it will cost companies a great deal of time and money to prepare the figures and also to have them audited, as the proposal requires. but it is a list that betrays a much wider ambition. when the commission asks companies not just about tax they pay in different member states, but also to disclose the nature of activities in third countries – the number of employees in each location, the related net turnover and accumulated earnings – we can deduce that the eu aims to not only harmonise corporation taxes, but also to introduce taxes based on wealth, capital and turnover, rather than profits, and to challenge existing tax residency and transfer pricing rules. when multinational corporations realise this, some of them will ask themselves why they should bother investing time, effort, and capital in the eu rather than somewhere else. some will rightly conclude that markets are growing much faster elsewhere in the world and that bigger profits can be made without endangering themselves to the avarice of an eu commission running out of other people’s money, which is shortly about to have a budget crisis when its second largest net contributor, the united kingdom, leaves. there are only so many eggs you can get out of a golden google!
madam president, the glory of european civilisation has always been found in its diversity, its variety and its pluralism. unusually among the great civilisations of the world, this continent never became centralised as a single empire, but remained rather a diverse plurality of competing states. let me make a little reference to something said by the great liberal german economist wilhelm röpke in 1952 as he saw the european project get underway. he said ‘in antiquity, strabo spoke of the “many shapes” of europe; [...] montesquieu was to speak of europe as a “nation de nations”; [...] decentralisation is of the essence of the spirit of europe; [...] to attempt to weld europe into one block is a betrayal of europe and the european patrimony, and a betrayal made all the worse for being carried out in europe’s name.’
madam president, the greens have long been pushing for public country-by-country reporting and we are really pleased to see it making headway with this commission proposal for public disclosure, supported and strengthened today by parliament. i am pleased that the committee on economic and monetary affairs supported disaggregated financial information from all countries inside and outside the eu, making tax transparency a truly useful tool, but i am sorry that certain parties in this house have sought to introduce loopholes allowing for no public disclosure in cases where information is considered commercially sensitive, something that it is impossible to define accurately. we also need a much lower threshold than the current eur 750 million turnover, which will mean that only 6 000 of the biggest companies need to report their information. i am sorry to say that while my colleagues on the right may claim to be parties of business, by undermining tax transparency in this way they are really ensuring that small businesses cannot compete fairly with the largest global corporations.
madam president, for too long consumers buying a fridge or a hoover or a washing machine have been faced with the fact that the goods are just not made to last the way that they used to be, and when they break they are easier to replace with a new product than to repair. if we want to address climate change and be more sustainable as a society, we need to tackle this use-and-dispose culture which runs counter to our commitments to the environment. today’s vote on product life cycles go some way to highlighting the problem and suggesting solutions such as ambitious design models, creating durable goods, finding easier ways to repair rather than replace, and supporting fair-usage-based sales models. if we can achieve a more sustainable base system for the sale of consumer goods across the eu we can start to realise the circular economy, creating new business models and supporting eu innovation and start-ups whilst protecting our environment. this must surely be a win-win for consumers and the environment.
madam president, i welcome this report. it is particularly important that it aims to strengthen consumer protection, especially in relation to those products which are reasonably expected to last for a significant period of time. this is particularly important in the context of ongoing discussions on contract-law rights for consumers. it is important that we pursue greater value for money for reliable and durable products and that we benefit companies and the wider society by reducing waste. it is also positive that this report reflects the need for minimum criteria on issues such as reparability and the ability to upgrade easily, especially when it comes to software. i was pleased to see that the amendments i put forward regarding battery technology issues and improving battery technology were included, and that the report calls for consumer safety to be protected, arguably in relation not only to general issues but also to spare parts.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the european union will only thrive if we take reform seriously. we face many social and environmental difficulties, as has been outlined by commissioner timmermans, but i want to focus on the enormous economic challenges we face: competitiveness, the loss of jobs to overseas employers, low growth rates, eurozone stagnation. these have led to unemployment levels in parts of europe that are far too high and poor wage growth that has led to stagnant household incomes for far too long. so as the commission designs its work programme for 2018, the foremost objective must be to address europe’s economic weaknesses by pursuing measures that unleash and encourage the creative capacities of our entrepreneurs and businesses, especially smes. this will deliver benefits for the whole community. if we can get that right, so many of our other political, social and environmental problems will be easier to overcome. if we are economically weak, we will be dominated by others who may not share our democratic traditions or political principles, but if we are economically strong, we will be in a position to defend our values and promote our common interests in what will be a very difficult century ahead. to help set an agenda of renewal, we have been pleased to work with the epp and alde groups on a joint motion. of course, our groups have very different political visions for europe – there are many areas where we do not agree. but what we have in common is a desire to address europe’s shared problems in a practical way, with a programme of constructive reform. so we have come together on the specific issue of the 2018 work programme to help set a strong and positive agenda for reform on key issues which would deliver tangible benefits to all our citizens, and i commend it to you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, listening to ms mogherini and mr katainen you would imagine we are starting from scratch on defence. we have very fine, capable armed forces right across europe. we have a well-tried defence alliance, nato, which binds the united states to european security and in which, with two very minor exceptions, all the eu member states are fully involved as members. so why does the european union want to create autonomous defence structures? we all know it is about european political integration. that is what it is about. listening to ms mogherini you would imagine that an eu army has already been created, although everyone denies that they want an eu army. so you need to make up your minds, commissioners. do you want it or don’t you want it? what is the latest justification? well, we used to hear a lot about the comprehensive approach. interestingly, in this reflection paper on european defence, the words ‘comprehensive approach’ are not mentioned once. instead we get a new justification and it is all about figures. it is all about the numbers of tanks and aircraft and things being produced across europe, and invidiously comparing these with the capability of the united states. for example, it says the united states has just one type of main battle tank while the european union has 17. this, of course, is complete nonsense. realistically, there are two main battle tanks in europe – the german leopard ii and the british challenger ii. the same with fighter aircraft: the us has six main types in service, and, according to this, the european union countries have 20. this is complete nonsense. basically there are two main fighter aircraft in service in the main european air forces – tornado and euro fighter. some also have the american f-16, of course, and the french went their own way with rafael and the mirage 2000 series. these arguments just do not stand up to scrutiny, and why are you doing this, commissioners? we all know you should come clean: it is all about political integration.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i think that after this i am going to have to report to the doctor because i think i am having a hallucination. i must be having a fantasy because i am sure i saw ms mogherini saying that there was going to be eu defence spending and eu armed forces and battle groups. now, during the referendum campaign in the uk the remain side told us this was fantasy. no such thing! it couldn’t possibly be true. they couldn’t have been lying, so i must be dreaming you ms mogherini. it is quite a bizarre dream i am having. the reality is: this money that is being squandered on this crazy political project, which will make no difference to anybody except losing money from the taxpayers, should be within the nation states, and they should be spending it on the one thing that actually does keep our nation safe – that is nato. i suggest that each and every one of these nation states gets up to their 2% minimum spending, or maybe a bit more to make up for all the money that they have not put in over the years, and we will have a really serious defence plan through nato, rather than this political fantasy.
madam president, stretched defence budgets in europe and an isolationist president trump in america, who is ambivalent about nato, and soaring populations across some of the poorest parts of the world without jobs to match, have led to political instability in many countries ,whilst a rising china and an assertive russia are unwinding the post-1991 international consensus. therefore, moves towards a european defence fund, a european defence industrial development programme, in addition to exploring the viability of permanent structured cooperation and the funding of eu battle groups via the athena mechanism are all interesting developments in this direction. these are sensible measures aimed at improving european collective security, and strengthening the role of the eu member states that they can play together in association and within nato. i am pleased that the uk government has announced it will not be making any moves to block these plans as an exciting eu member state. and i hope that as brexit negotiations progress, creative ways will be found for the uk to stay as plugged-in as possible into the common foreign and security policy and the common security and defence policy.
madam president, another new shiny building, stuffed full of six-figure salary functions. ms mogherini, where is your army coming from? all military personnel joined their forces to serve their nation-state, not the eu. will you recruit from the millions of unemployed young people the eu has created? perhaps it is your idea of a job-creation scheme. you oppose the nation-states erecting external borders, but you cannot control the millions of marauding migrants invading our continent. yet you propose this military force. it’s just grandstanding. the eu shouldn’t be allowed to lead a group of boy scouts, let alone army tanks. the enemy is isis. what are you doing to tackle this? instead of an eu army we should be lifting russian sanctions and working with them and the us to defeat isis. ms mogherini, this is a very dangerous proposal, led by you, a low-grade socialist, promoted beyond your capabilities.
madam president, rené magritte, the famous belgian surrealist painter, used to paint pictures of pipes, and he would then say ‘this is not a pipe’. the eu has actually copied magritte. firstly, they said that the eu created peace in europe, when in fact it was nato. and secondly, they say they don’t want an eu army – in fact, what they want is a european security and defence force, when everybody can see that what you want is an eu army. the european rapid operational force (eurofor) had 12 000 personnel: the size of an armed division. eu money for extra drones and the military industrial complex will get tax deductions under proposals from this chamber. and of course, as i see today, more and more meps want to have war with russia – the new bogeyman. the idea that we have to have an army, so therefore we must have an enemy. the eu is attempting to create a new world order with a new eu army. this is what magritte would have called surreal.
mr president, during last year’s referendum people in the united kingdom were told that a vote to leave the european union would bring upheaval almost from day one. so dire were the consequences, we were told, that sticking with the eu was really the only show in town. this reflection paper on the eu’s future finances makes grim reading for taxpayers across the remaining member states. it points to a eur 12 billion annual shortfall as a result of the uk’s exit. now, as before, the commission goes down a predictable path of creating new spending priorities – spending on the european common defence policy, the challenges of migration and other ambitious plans could well add another eur 12 to 13 billion to the deficit, making it in the region of eur 25 billion per year. commissioner hogan has confirmed a three billion black hole in the common agricultural policy budget. just last week, commissioner, you confirmed that other major programmes would not be immune to cuts. inevitably, this will mean that countries like germany, france and the republic of ireland will pay in more and will receive less in return. it will inevitably mean the raising of further direct taxes from citizens in order to finance these grand ambitions. these are challenging times for all of us. we are entering a crucial phase of negotiation on the uk’s departure from the eu. reading this report should remind this house just how important it is that we construct an agreement that is to the mutual benefit of all of our citizens, and not just the federalist ambitions of some.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it will not surprise you, i’m sure, to learn there is much that i disagree with when it comes to the proposals for the 2018 budget. firstly, using our taxpayers’ money for projects which are broadly political in nature, whether so-called information campaigns or pre-accession funding given to third countries. and secondly, there are projects which would be better funded, better achieved, by member states themselves. rather than sending money across to the european union for it to come back, it is sometimes better to simply cut out the middleman. thirdly, there is the waste, mismanagement and fraud within the eu budget – and we still do not really know, with eu funded projects, whether they have actually added enough value to be worth the money that has been spent on them. fourthly, there is a failure to respect subsidiarity: doing things at eu level when there is no actual need to do so. and fifthly, of course, the waste in administration, which is so well known anyway. there is much more that i could say on this, but what it all leads to is a budget that is perpetually too high, and it leads every year to the eu scrambling around to find ways to increase funding. in the uk in 2010, when labour was voted out of office, the chief secretary to the treasury famously left his successor a note saying ‘there’s no more money left’, and this seems to happen here every year. if you tried to do less but better you would not find these issues coming up so often. remember: a spending cap is meant to be a cap, not a target.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i have been watching a great new tv show based on margaret atwood’s novel ‘the handmaid’s tale’. women are forced to do domestic chores, wear complete cover-up clothing, head dresses that act like blinkers on a horse; they cannot travel, drive, shop or even eat and drink without a man’s permission. they are entirely the property of men, with no legal identity of their own. the programme is described by its producers as ‘set in a dystopian future, a woman is forced to live as a concubine under a fundamentalist theocratic dictatorship’. we are all horrified! can we imagine a path whereby our world could come to this? well, no, this is fiction, right? it is not, because almost exactly these conditions exist in modern saudi arabia. this is not a country that we should be listening to on the un commission on the status of women. this is a country that we should be condemning, and we should condemn this appointment in the strongest possible terms.
mr president, we can all agree that saudi arabia being elected to the un body that is supposed to promote and defend women’s rights is both preposterous and absurd. but whenever something like this happens on the international stage we get a chorus of right-wing nationalists bashing the un and international cooperation, when in fact the opposite is what we need. unfortunate situations like saudi arabia’s election come about because governments do not assume their responsibilities on human rights and gender equality, and choose to follow narrow national interests. that applies, unfortunately, also to some eu member states. the un, similar to our european union, cannot function effectively without the political will of governments. so, instead of simply bashing the un, let us ask ourselves if we have done enough to promote women’s rights and gender equality in the world and in the middle east. have our own governments stepped up to the plate to promote these values at home and abroad, and how can we strengthen international collaboration and cooperation?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, culture is a political issue. it is also a political tool, and i am glad the commission has officially recognised that meaningful cultural relations – supported by the eu, based on diversity, equality and with reciprocal partnerships and locally-based initiatives – can help address stereotypes, extremism and populism, foster intercultural dialogue, peace-making, capacity-building and community development, and promote more harmonious and cohesive societies, both in the eu and in third countries. cultural institutions and artists from all disciplines have a key role to play, and such a strategy must be founded on people-to-people contacts and civil society involvement. in an increasingly complex and dangerous world characterised by an unprecedented migrant crisis and the rise of violent extremism – which includes the destruction of cultural heritage and the annihilation of minorities’ cultures as well as an increasing polarisation of international relations – deeper understanding and a willingness to work together is what we need.
madam president, it is 23.00, and my heart goes out to mr juncker in whatever fine-dining establishment he happens to find himself at this precise moment. instead of seeking to impose european cultural values on other countries, europe’s nations should concentrate on protecting those values at home. it is good that gender equality, human rights, democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law are listed as key values under pillar one of the eu strategy. but the sad fact is that these values are under increasing pressure within european countries. a major cause of this, especially in respect of gender equality, is the importing of hundreds of thousands of young men from countries that do not respect those values. not for the first time the eu’s ambition drastically exceeds its ability to deliver. let us look to protect the key and precious features of our own culture instead of automatically believing that more diversity must always be welcome, no matter how much strain that diversity is already placing on our countries. the best contribution europe can make to the world in cultural terms is to carry on being a great example of tolerant, free and peaceful societies, where ideas are respected and where superior values prevail. far more than a strategy for international cultural relations, we need a strategy for european cultural protection.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, usually i defend my country’s privileged position as a permanent member of the un security council, but tonight, a year after the uk’s sensible decision to leave the european union, and with article 50 negotiations finally under way, i turn my attention across the channel. so, my french friends and neighbours – i can say that, can’t i? – will surely come to expect similar increased pressure over the retention of their own permanent un security council seat. france must not subjugate its international and security interests in the name of the eu collective. since the brexit vote, and in the rush for ever closer union, the eu has demonstrated its inability to adapt in its rush for greater powers in relation to defence and security matters. through our joint efforts and sacrifice, the united kingdom and france have greatly contributed to the maintenance of international security. although this partnership has not always been perfect, it is strong and it must continue as such after brexit. on this basis i would urge my french counterparts to abandon their support of the eu project, and instead throw their full weight behind this bilateral partnership, and fully commit to nato. if they do not do so, i fear it will be to the detriment of security for europe and la francophonie and internationally.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the g20 meeting gives the eu an opportunity to speak to the major economies of the world and to find out what their perception of the post-brexit landscape will be. i strongly suspect that the eu – and particularly the host nation germany – is in for an unpleasant surprise. the non-eu countries will be eyeing up how to grab a bigger slice of the lucrative market of exports to the uk from you if the eu pursues its active economic self-harm by trying to exclude the uk from fair access to the single market. the european union’s decision in declaring a post-brexit economic war on the uk won’t act as a deterrent to other would-be leavers. your huge trade surplus with the uk will crumble and other non-eu g20 nations will be licking their lips at the prospect of trading with, and exporting to, the uk. the revitalised, liberalised united kingdom will be seen as a key trading partner by these nations, and we will see cars made in detroit, rather than stuttgart, on british roads. for your own economic wellbeing, i urge the eu negotiators to look into the hungry eyes of your fellow g20 nations and reflect upon the damage your present course will have on your precious project. thank you.
mr president, my thanks to mr timmermans. as we approach the g20 summit, we do so with our world facing huge challenges that threaten the common values and ideals that we share. in the united kingdom, in london, in manchester, in cities across europe, brussels, paris and berlin, terrorist attacks have brought death and destruction. the events in the korean peninsula are a stark and vivid reminder of darker days we thought were in the past. the migration crisis continues. in the past ten days alone, an estimated 10 000 migrants have arrived in italy from libya, and yet we continue with the same bit-part solution that we have always had. on all of these issues, a coordinated approach is required right across the g20 to bring about meaningful and lasting results – strong and united leadership based upon shared ideas of freedom, democracy and tolerance.
mr president, the g20 will actually revolve around presidents trump and putin, not you. these two men working together can defeat isis. these two men understand the threat of migration and culture, jobs and identity. and migrants – no, no, no! what don’t you understand? we have got to secure our borders. our cultures and identities are under threat and you are incapable of dealing with it. presidents trump and putin actually get this. they understand the nation state and putting up walls and barriers. we need to arrest and deport the migrants and tow them back to libya. the paris climate change agreement is a bad business deal, and trump gets that because he is a businessman and he is right. and you are obsessed with the gender agenda. please, we women do not need special treatment. i am not special needs, i take it most of you are not special needs. stop singling us out. and get real to the threats we face: it is migrants, isis and security. you do not have the solutions. the nation state is the way forward, as we are showing in brexit and the visegrad countries. your speeches this morning have confirmed that the death knell of the eu is ringing, so get used to it and go back to your nation states.
mr president, good morning everyone in the chamber and thank you, mr timmermans, for the lack of tantrums that we saw yesterday from mr juncker, entertaining as it was. i have two observations to make, and they are serious ones. we have heard this morning the usual calls for open markets, improved trade agreements and religiously enshrining and making sure delivery of consumer protectionism and such. but just remember please, everyone attending the g20, that when we talk about the impact in terms of job losses, falling wages and decreasing lifestyles and living standards, that’s what voters measure g20 meetings by, and we need to be a little bit more flexible in terms of that approach and the timing to achieve the objectives. but the other clear message for me that i would love the g20 to address is the existing european union monetary policy, which clearly favours one major member state and penalises so many others. we have young people out there who want jobs – want to work – and they have to leave their countries because of the eu monetary policy. so please can we send some very clear messages and change tack.
madam president, i rise from my seat to point out that amendments 19 and 20 to this report refer to the ‘north of ireland’. i am a member from the north of ireland and there is no such entity as ‘the north of ireland’. it is the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, and if northern ireland is referred to it should be referred to as northern ireland. so please, parliament’s administration, take that on board. this is the second time i have had to point this out in this house, so please, do not require me to do it again.
madam president, sola mors tyrannicida est, says sir thomas moore: death is the only way to get rid of a tyrant, and so it proved in the case of fidel castro, who survived, by some counts, more than 40 assassination attempts, including an exploding cigar and a poisoned wetsuit. but that has changed the dynamic on the sultry island of cuba. i was for a long time in this chamber sceptical of political engagement in the way that we were doing it in this house, refusing in particular to give full weight to the opposition groups. now, on the other hand, we are in a position of disruptive change. cuba is in an unfrozen moment, and any disruption tends to be bad for a dictatorship. the thing that will eventually bring about the democratisation of that island and freedom is now economic engagement from the rest of the world. investment and the rule of law, private property and all the things that bring civil freedoms in their wake. the united states has changed its policy in a welcome way. we should follow.
madam president, this is by far parliament’s most critical report on turkey that i have ever seen and it is wholly deserved. far from dismantling the turkish deep state and the pursuit of democracy, erdogan has instead replaced one authoritarian regime with another. after years of increasing his power base, he has now fully cemented his, and the ak party’s, dominant role across the whole of the turkish state. having purged public institutions and silenced the media under the pretext of responding to the attempted coup last year, the referendum this year has now confirmed constitutional changes that ensure that president erdogan is soon to assume his much—coveted sultanesque role. turkey, as a nato state and eu candidate country, however, is too important and too close to europe to simply ignore. difficult choices now lie ahead of us as to how to adapt the eu’s relationship with turkey in the future, but we should take care to ensure that those choices are not dictated purely by necessity, rather than by our common values. i hope, above all, to see a solution to end turkey’s military occupation of cyprus very soon. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you, charles, for taking my blue card. this isn’t a personal dig at you, but do you understand my frustration that your party, the british conservative party, sits in the same pan-european group, the acre, as erdogan’s akp party? do you think that is an extremely difficult position for your party, and would you welcome their withdrawal from it?
blue-card answer. – well, thank you for reminding me of that rather unfortunate fact, mr carver. it is extremely difficult for me, as somebody critical of ak and what it has been up to in turkey, so i would call upon the conservative party leadership – i am not part of the leadership – to expel the ak party as soon as possible.
madam president, until very recently turkey, an important nato ally, was firmly on the path to eu accession, and in this very chamber speakers praised president erdoğan’s new turkey. however, since then, turkey’s accession to the european union, and indeed their commitment to nato, now both seem questionable. despite failing to uphold recent nature commitments, citing financial pressure, turkey has since funded the deployment of 3 000 troops to qatar at a time of heightened tension across the gulf. perhaps symbolic of this change in turkey’s path was instruction to chisel out the poignant words of atatürk carved into a stone wwi memorial at gallipoli which i now quote ‘those heroes who shed their blood and lost their lives you are now lying in the soil of a friendly country. therefore, rest in peace. there is no difference between the johnnies and the mehmets to us, where they lie side by side here in this country of ours. you, the mothers who sent their sons from faraway countries, wipe away your tears your sons are now lying in our bosom and are in peace. after having lost their lives on this land they have become our sons as well’. how turkey has changed. (the president interrupts the speaker) the desecration of this moving epitaph leads many to suggest this is a further sign of the cultural shift taking place in ankara. it seems to me that regrettably turkey, under erdoğan, is turning its back on secularism. i call on this house to acknowledge what we have long argued: turkey is incompatible with eu membership. this report must go further and call for an end to this illusion once and for all. mustafa kemal atatürk must be turning in his grave.
mr president, on behalf of turkish nationals and minorities who live in my north-west england constituency, and also those who live oppressed in turkey, i would like to say thank you to my colleagues for their work on this file. i would also like to draw attention to the destruction of cultural heritage in the ancient mesopotamian town of hasankeyf, where historical sites and artefacts are being destroyed and removed to make way for a new dam. this is a kurdish-majority and, historically, an armenian area along the tigris river. the dutch company bresser is helping the turkish government remove and relocate historic monuments and take apart ancient tombs on a site whose history goes back 12 000 years. this must stop, and we must let bresser and the turkish authorities know that. i ask the high representative and the commission to call out to the turkish authorities on this and make a clear statement that the destruction and removal must end.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, many people have talked about this being a first for the parliament because three committees worked on a codecision file for the first time. so congratulations to our three co—rapporteurs. not only have they delivered, but they have delivered in record time: in just four months. special thanks also go to marlene bonnici, the ambassador from malta, who pushed this through, and our staff, who worked very hard. they know who they are and they deserve our special thanks. but we don’t need it to be speedy just for institutional reasons to get it done under a certain presidency. we need it because we promised this kind of thing in addis ababa two years ago. we promised that aid would be one part of the picture for funding development, and that we would also have private sector leverage and more tax revenues going in to help fund. i want to make this link with addis ababa to remind people that this is not an instrument to tackle migration except in as much as the instrument is to tackle poverty at its roots, create jobs and bring investment. it is not about managing flows into europe. most of the money comes from the european development fund, so it is right that the fund should focus on the least developed countries and fragile states. when the plans come forward, i hope we will see the funding in those domains. it is also timely because we have the g20 this weekend, the high-level political forum in a couple of weeks in new york and we’ve got the africa summit coming up. a lot of people are talking about a marshall plan for africa. i am not very good at maths, but i worked out that germany got usd 15 billion of aid in today’s money in the late 1940s; about eur 267 per person. if we do the same thing in sub-saharan africa, that is about usd 66 billion today. so the european fund for sustainable development can be part of the beginning of a new plan for africa. it is part of the picture. we need to make sure it is spent properly and that it leaves in the aid that we have promised.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) is the flagship policy of the eu’s external investment plan, launched last year in response partly to the migration crisis. high population growth across africa without the employment opportunities to match is a growing problem, likely to be made worse by the effects of climate change as time goes on. fragile states with weak public institutions, limited track records in the rule of law, and challenges to democracies are particularly affected and are naturally a deterrent to the necessary private investment required to generate jobs. the efsd and the efsd guarantee are seeking to try and plug that gap by the european union and aims at aiding and leveraging investment from private business and institutions. it is projected that eur 3.5 billion of eu investment could generate as much as eur 88 billion of total investment. the efsd will also seek to provide technical assistance to governments in the region in order to mobilise further investment. it is something that i fully support.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the disinterested observer can immediately see several problems with the eu’s plans for the efsd. firstly, these funds appear to be nothing more or less than a means of using taxpayers’ money to expand the eu’s regional hegemony. the two regional platforms, one for africa and one for what is ominously termed the ‘eu neighborhood’, offer for the purported recipients nothing more than serfdom. the funds come with strings attached, which means there will be strategic boards imposed upon the clients, with commission and eib representation. this means, as always with eu largesse, that those who are supposed to benefit have their hands tied and are reduced in their own nations to the role of supplicant. this is surely wrong from the start. the second major issue one can immediately spot is that citizens’ money is expected to leverage private investments, essentially throwing taxpayers’ money down a well. please stop treating other people’s money with such contempt.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs in the other groups for their excellent work and cooperation throughout this process. and may i please also pay particular tribute to emily stewart in my office whose work on this has been exemplary and without whom i would not be able to be standing here and present this report to this house? i’m also extremely grateful to the committees that put their input into this report, namely the development committee, the agriculture committee and the cultural committee. but i am very disappointed that there were not more committees contributing to this process, because we have had many meps put forward their expertise, but we need a full breadth of committees involved in this process, because a key ask of this report is that the commission use all of its departments and instil the un sustainable development goals throughout all of the commission’s departments. and unless we practise that in this parliament, it will be difficult to act as the exemplar for others. imagine if you will, a world where no child is born into hunger, where no child is born into poverty, where access to health care and clean water – some of the things you might take for granted – are available to everyone, where well-paid jobs, decent jobs, don’t come at the expense of the environment, and where we all act together as stewards, not owners, of this planet, and that we can forward it to the next generation. this doesn’t just have to be a pipe dream, and it certainly doesn’t have to be the preserve of one group in this house. this goal is something we as humans must all own and make a reality. the goals defined through the un’s 17 sustainable development goals will achieve this if we put the necessary measures into practice. i am very grateful to the commission for its initial assessment of progress, again but i have to be perfectly honest, it is not enough to look at existing work and then backfit it into the 17 un sustainable development goals. we have to be honest with ourselves, not just about the scale of our ambition, but the scale of the task at hand. when we conduct our trade, when we develop shared energy networks, when we draw up financing rules, when we draw up strategies for transportation, when we evaluate education, when we drive forward change at a local, city, regional, national and european level we must always ask ourselves: ‘are we doing enough and is what we are doing delivering the un’s sustainable development goals?’ we and our generation are running out of excuses, and we don’t have the excuse of previous generations of ignorance. we know how our actions today will affect the world around us tomorrow. there is a school group up there! hello, it is your future we’re discussing today, and the decisions that we take in this place and across all of the eu’s institutions will have ramifications. it is great news that vice-president timmermans will chair the multi-stakeholder forum, but it is essential that the commission use this forum properly to learn from other actors, to share best practice and to report back to this parliament. we didn’t get everything through that we wanted to in this report and i’m sure we will hear from others about some of the compromises that don’t go far enough, and that is a fair criticism. but we must use this infrastructure to have a proper discussion; a proper discussion across all layers of government and hold the commission to account on its promises, but also have the commission report to us. i ask each and every group in this house to have somebody on their bureau responsible for delivering this, because the world needs leadership. mr commissioner, when you go to the un in new york, we want you to take the views of this house forward, because it is time for the eu to step up and show that leadership.
mr president, what is happening the week after next in new york is an extremely important meeting – the high-level political forum – because it is a chance for the european union to show leadership in multilateral governance at a time when others, the us in particular, are moving backwards on this. i think we need to do more, though, to have more influence in new york, and the first thing is we need to do a lot more to coordinate our positions. the commissioner said that they are working on an implementation plan on the sdgs, but seb dance is right. it is not enough for the commission to make a list of what it is already doing institutionally. we need to push our member states to do more, we need to be collecting data from our member states, finding out if they – as well as the eu institutions – are meeting their targets, and then we need to be pushing to make sure the eu does deliver on the 2030 agenda, a little bit in the same way as we do on the climate change targets. we have the effort-sharing and we monitor that, and the commission publishes data and we push that forward. otherwise, i do not think we will implement the sdgs. we need to get other donors on the development side to work with us as well. the eu is doing a lot but we need other non-traditional donors to work with us. and finally, we need accountability. you said that you would come back and report to us on a regular basis, but we need to know what you are measuring – are you establishing base lines on statistics, and will you give us regular updates on how that is progressing?
mr president, culture is an important driver for behavioural change through the creation of new lifestyles and sustainable development paradigms. this approach must be community based or locally rooted and it implies finding a local understanding of sustainable development. but it could also be global and virtual. proper recognition must be given to the mediating and facilitating role of culture, which helps us find a balance between the competing needs of the economic, social and environmental goals of sustainability. culture is therefore a driver for sustainable growth and innovation, urban regeneration and rural and regional sustainable development, as well as for social cohesion and individual and collective well-being. it is crucial to maintain a global perspective and not to deal with these various aspects in silos. with determination and creativity we can make our cities, towns and villages more liveable, more sustainable and more inclusive, and promote innovative economic models which are fairer, cooperative and put people and the planet first.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much to everybody took part in this debate, and particular thanks to you, commissioner vella, because it is very clear that you have listened to what the report is saying and what we are suggesting, and i am very heartened to hear a number of initiatives that you outlined in the response that you gave, including, of course, regular reporting to this place on the progress vis-à-vis the 2030 agenda and the reference indicator framework which we very much look forward to in terms of seeing how that will be implemented. again, i welcome very much your commitment to the side events and the participation at the un high-level event in new york, because this of course is the opportunity for this place to take forward our ideas and to showcase to the world how we can work collectively. a number of issues did come up in the debate regarding how we go forward. ms wiśniewska from the ecr was right: we cannot be prescriptive in telling citizens how they behave and what they eat. that is not the role of this place. however, mr eck was also correct in saying we cannot shirk our responsibilities. we cannot pretend that things are not as they are. it is the case that current production methods in meat consumption, for example, are driving us towards an unsustainable future, but that doesn’t mean we can’t collectively find the solutions. already across this chamber we’ve heard ideas in this place. there are ideas that will be shared in the multi-stakeholder framework. it is only through this dialogue, through this process of conversation, that we will get to a stage where industry and businesses and citizens and ngos and all of us can work together for that sustainable future. because i meant what i said at the start: this isn’t something that is owned by the left or the right one political group, it is owned by all of us, and it is all of our responsibility to deliver it. and i think together we can do it.
blue-card question. – ms sander, are you aware that, on 27 april 2017, a majority of your group voted for a single seat by 96 votes to 80. and, mr president, why is ms sander speaking first when she does not even represent the majority of the epp group?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, strasbourg is an historic city. it is beautiful, it is clean, it is safe and, in 1957, it was a symbol of peace and reconciliation. but now, 70 years later, it is a symbol of all that is wrong with the eu. we have two parliaments, one in strasbourg and one in brussels, and the endless travelling circus that we perform means that we are held in contempt by our citizens. having two parliament buildings wastes eur 114 million a year. we emit 19 000 tons of carbon dioxide unnecessarily, and we waste thousands of hours of time of officials, our staff and members. this parliament has the power to propose an amendment to the treaties. i think we should do so. i think it is disgraceful that the epp and the socialist group both put up french speakers who do not represent their groups. a majority of every group in this house wants one seat. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i have campaigned on this subject for eight years, and i shall continue as a full member of this parliament for as long as the united kingdom pays its membership fee. if you want to suggest that we stop paying our fee now, then i will relinquish my right to vote, but i will wait to hear from you.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, ms lunacek and my old friend ashley fox have explained in considerable detail why the two-seat situation for the parliament is totally indefensible. it is hugely wasteful. it wastes resources; it wastes vast quantities of time including, colleagues, our time. it wastes money, and if you care about it, it wastes co2 emissions. but i have to tell you, mr president, that i personally rather like it, and i’ll tell you why i like it, because it serves as a perfect metaphor for the hubris and futility of the european project. it is something that nobody can explain, nobody can justify, and yet nobody can change, and there are many, many policies of the european union of which you can say the same. i think of the common fisheries policy, i think of the emissions trading scheme. the list goes on. i have been able to use this metaphor again and again in speeches up and down britain in order to explain to ordinary people who are not very familiar with the european project the complete absurdity of it, and they catch it straight away. ms lunacek said companies would never do this. she is right. i say to people: are you in business? would you move your business from london to edinburgh for a week and then back again, and then to edinburgh for one week every month? of course they would not, and they see the absurdity of it. mr president, i am shortly to retire, and this is, i believe, the last speech i shall make in this chamber as a member of the european parliament. i would therefore like to crave your indulgence to leave one final message. we need a quick, a clean brexit and we need a fair and comprehensive trade deal. we need that not just for britain but even more for europe, and if you fail to deliver it, then you will find that you will be punished by the workers of stuttgart and munich and many other european citizens. i leave that thought with you.
mr president, i fully support the european union abandoning the current situation of two european parliament locations. i fully support realising the saving of the millions currently wasted stupidly and inefficiently every year by transferring the eu parliamentary machine between brussels and strasbourg. but let’s be realistic. the eu is now resorting to the usual fudge and non-credible position, and proposing re-siting two london-based agencies here in strasbourg, ignoring the fact that strasbourg is a totally inappropriate location for either, so there will not be any buildings sold, there will not be any operational costs eliminated. in fact, the european union will stay here, and any cost or efficiency savings will never actually be achieved. it is a real shame, isn’t it, that the european union learns nothing, and allows politics to override sensible decision-making, which would mean closing its presence in one of the two cities for good. and i would say to a lot of people who keep on citing the war: stop living in the past and get real.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, fair taxation is at the core of our agenda on jobs and growth. that means closing loopholes exploited by large companies to avoid paying their fair share, but also ensuring that we address anomalies like double taxation, which disproportionately affect small— and medium—sized companies who often end up footing the bill twice when they are doing business cross-border. for many smes this uncertainty keeps them from taking the leap towards supplying their goods and services across borders. this is where the european union has tremendous added value. the directive being voted on tomorrow will speed up procedures to settle tax disputes, reduce compliance costs and administrative burdens. we have managed to halve the timescale to align the process with the annual business and investment cycle. the next step, of course, is to ensure we fully implement a common consolidated corporate tax base that will prevent double taxation being charged in the first place. let this be a strong message to those who doubt the eu’s key role in cutting red tape and making cross—border business a possibility for all. my congratulations to the rapporteur, michael theurer, on achieving this goal.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, as we have heard, this case was referred to the court more than three years ago, which means a trade deal that we negotiated over years and initialled has been in the deep freeze for that time period. apart from the damage that has done to us as trade negotiators, my fear about this is that it is not actually going to bring any more clarity to the situation than we had before the court case. i am afraid that nothing the commissioner has said tonight has given me hope that this would be different. the logical consequence of the court ruling should be to leave investment out of the singapore free trade agreement and proceed as quickly as possible with a goods-only agreement. that could be ratified very speedily and it would also take a toxic matter out of the agreement. i hope that the council, which should have been part of this debate tonight, will actually agree with this and take the matter forward but, as the committee chair has said, this goes beyond the singapore free trade agreement. the commission has done this, and i pleased to hear that. the lisbon treaty makes it very clear that this house, which is legitimately elected by the eu citizens, is the only parliament entitled to ratify eu—only free trade deals. in future, the council should not artificially add to the mandate for free trade agreements in order to maintain mixity. secondly, as mr fjellner has said, by not doing this, we can avoid the potential scenario of any one of 43 national and regional parliaments holding our trade agreements hostage. the court has given us a unique opportunity to put new impetus into our trade agreements. i think a majority in this house is willing to grasp that nettle. i am not yet convinced that the commission is, and i am very worried that we have had radio silence from the european council on this matter. the council should be prepared to act and give trade policy a chance.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is the right of everyone to fully participate in culture. yet people who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled continue to face many barriers in accessing books and other print material which is protected by copyright and related rights. the marrakech treaty, which allows for copyright exceptions to facilitate the creation of accessible versions of books and other copyrighted works for visually impaired people, was a landmark move to enable visually impaired people to access books with the same ease as sighted readers. the marrakech treaty was adopted in 2013, but the eu has delayed ratifying it, despite its obvious and much-needed benefits for visually impaired people. whilst working on this subject, i consulted with a cross section of stakeholders – disability experts, ngos working on disability issues and representatives from the author and publisher fields – and all were largely in agreement with each other and stressed the importance of the speedy ratification of the treaty. culture is a human right and equal access to culture is paramount. i would like to thank luigi morgano for his help and hard work on this subject.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, over the past few years norwegian whalers have hunted more whales than iceland and japan combined. in 2016 alone, 591 minke whales were killed, and for 2017 the quota has been set for 990 whales. yet in norway, as was previously said, the domestic demand for whale meat has fallen to the point that unwanted whale meat is now being sent to fur farms to be used as feed. what a doubly grotesque state of affairs that is. this decline in demand should not come as any surprise, given the very high levels of toxic contaminants found in whale products, including pcbs, hormone-disrupting chemicals and mercury. sadly, as large mammals, whales are greatly at risk from persistent organic pollutants because of bio-accumulation in the food chain. in fact, the japanese government itself has rejected imports of norwegian whale meat after tests revealed pesticide levels double the amount japan permits in imports, making the meat unfit for human consumption, so that it simply has to be destroyed. despite this, norway has sharply increased its exports to japan. however, as there is no direct shipping route to asia, eu ports offer a convenient stopping off point for the ships. in the european union our legislation could not be any clearer: all cetacean species are strictly protected and any incidental capture, killing or sale by eu members is prohibited. under the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), international trade in whale products is also specifically prohibited. it simply beggars belief that the eu is assisting another country that holds the polar opposite views and values on this issue to transport whale meat via its ports. this clearly goes against our conservation laws designed to protect these magnificent creatures. i would like the commission to give parliament all the data available on these exports, to use its influence in cites and in the international whaling commission to encourage norway to end its cruel and unnecessary practice of whaling. if this does not result in the desired outcome, i call on the commission to recommend a ban on whale-meat transiting through eu ports, as an exceptional measure.
author. – mr president, the cases of liu xiaobo and lee ming—che are very concerning, but sadly unsurprising and, in fact, predictable, given the severe lack of freedom of speech and expression that we are now all too familiar with in the people’s republic of china. they form part of a systematic crackdown on civil society and opposition to the one-party politics of the prc. therefore i echo the calls in the resolution of this house to see the release of both the individuals in question and hope that xiaobo and his wife will be given permission to leave the country, if desired, in view of xiaobo’s ongoing serious medical needs. meanwhile, the situation in tibet, the plight of the falun gong in hong kong, the fate of democracy in the two systems, one country policy, and the issues of media and internet freedom are all areas of major concern to the european union. china is a global power that we are unable to ignore, but this should not mean that we shy away from highlighting areas of concern where we see them, nor deny the importance that we place upon fundamental and universal human rights.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this debate concerning chinese provocations of citizens of both their own state and taiwan is well timed. as it is the 20th anniversary of the takeover/handover of hong kong to the chinese, i would like to focus my speech on chinese actions there. one country, two systems was supposed to guarantee the hong kong way of life for 50 years, but already chinese authorities are exerting undue influence on the political, legal and social life of hong kong. china must respect the terms of the sino-british joint declaration as a legally binding document lodged with the united nations. it must respect human rights and release its political prisoners. similarly, the british government must do more to uphold our end of the bargain and guarantee the freedoms hong kong enjoys under the existing terms of the agreement.
author. – madam president, given the brutal regime of president afwerki in eritrea and his role in ruining that country’s prospects, following its independence from ethiopia in 1991, we often focus on the wider diplomatic picture. but today we are focusing on two individuals, abune antonios and dawit isaak. antonios, the patriarch of the eritrean orthodox church, has been under house arrest for the past decade. isaak, a naturalised swede and a journalist, has been in jail for more than 15 years and has not been seen since 2005. jailed for his reporting of the corruption and injustices of the afwerki regime, his case is emblematic of the totalitarian dictatorship that we now see in eritrea, a regime that sees thousands of young men fleeing conscription and the brutalities of daily life. with 416 000 eritrean refugees worldwide, this makes it the ninth largest country of origin for refugees, a staggering figure for a country with a population of only 6 million people. therefore i now call on parliament and the commission to consider consultation under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. i actually called for this almost 18 years ago for the first time and i am calling for it again.
author. – madam president, the re-election of president nkurunziza in 2015 was highly controversial, given the questions surrounding the legitimacy of his eligibility for a third term, and in fact article 96 consultation was invoked. the boycott of that election by the opposition and his subsequent re-election has provoked increasing tension. recent speculation that nkurunziza is seeking to amend the law so as to allow him to run again in 2020 for a fourth term is concerning. meanwhile, the resulting human rights situation is also very worrying. nkurunziza’s party’s youth wing and quasi-militia, the imbonerakure, is held responsible for the intimidation, rape, attack and forced disappearances of a number of opposition figures and supporters. given the fragility and conflict in burundi’s neighbouring states, finding a way through the impasse is vital. there are reports of an increasingly ethnic dimension – between hutus and tutsis – to the violence, and this has the potential to significantly worsen and protract the problem. therefore we must all now seek action before the situation reaches that terrible point.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in 2015, in burundi, i witnessed at first hand government troops blowing up a radio antenna in order to stop independent radio stations broadcasting, i met families who had been burnt out of their houses because they were of the wrong ethnicity, and i saw political rallies brutally broken up by government-backed militia. when i raised all of these issues at the recent meeting of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states (acp) in malta, the burundian representative admitted – what else could he do, i had seen it with my own eyes – that all of these events had happened, but said that things were much better now in the country. well, i am afraid things are not much better in the country, and what we hear from the international community and the international organisations based in burundi is that, in fact, things are getting worse. this is a time for us to intensify our sanctions on burundi, to make sure we keep the pressure up on the current burundian government, and to ask the east african community to act to defend their neighbour’s citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this report highlights worrying developments in burundi, one of africa’s poorest countries. since 2015, 1 200 people have been killed and between 400 and 900 have disappeared. the use of torture has been widespread. more than 10 000 people have been detained without trial and nearly half a million have fled to neighbouring countries. burundi has plunged into crisis. with reports of ethnic cleansing in the military, the world and all global institutions must be ready to intervene and prevent another genocide. there cannot be a repeat of rwanda. too often the west has been ready to intervene when the cause has not warranted it – the disaster in libya being one example – but when there is a call on our resources, too many also look the other way. a strong message from all quarters must go out across the world that the rights to life, liberty and political expression are unbreakable. and all those who believe in that message must have the force, in every sense of the word, to back it up.
mr president, yesterday afternoon we had a lively debate, under rule 153, on the subject of a single seat for this parliament. unfortunately, under that rule, it was not possible to have a resolution, but it was the clear will of this house that we bring forward a report to propose a treaty change. so, as mr weber and mr pittella are in their seats, could they please take note of the view of this house and, when the matter comes to the conference of presidents, could they please authorise that report? (applause)
mr president, it is a point of order. it is about the way that you are conducting the vote. what i am getting through my headphones is ‘for, against, abstain, for, against, abstain, for, against, abstain’. it is impossible to vote if we are going at that speed.
mr president, the other day, during the visit of the maltese prime minister, president juncker said that this parliament was ridiculous, or pointless or a farce, or something to that effect. the obscene speed at which these votes are being conducted most certainly gives weight to president juncker’s view. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, in retrospect, the european union’s approach to turkey has not worked out terribly well. we could, at the outset, have said ‘membership is not on the agenda: let’s find a different way of working together’, or we could have embraced them, but what we did instead was to hold out a promise of membership which we had absolutely no intention of fulfilling. understandably, a sense of rejection contributed to some political breakdown in that country. of course, i am not saying it was all the fault of the european union. that would be absurd. it is mainly about internal dynamics within turkey. but i wonder whether we might not be wiser now to try to find a more sustainable and permanent deal, whereby we recognise turkey as a strategic partner and ally, and recognise the value of a free market with turkey, but drop the idea of political integration. and if we could set up such a status successfully for a state as important and as large as turkey, perhaps it could become the model for relations with other nearby neighbouring countries.
mr president, i am happy that today we are one step closer to ratifying the marrakesh treaty. eu action on facilitating access to published works for people who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled has been long overdue. however, despite many of the good points contained in parliament’s report, i strongly condemn the introduction of compensation schemes for publishers. not only could this provision violate article 21 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities but there has been no proof of economic loss to be compensated for, and governments have never demonstrated that any damage is done to publishers by accessibly formatted works. this provision is in direct contradiction with the ‘right to read’ objectives of the marrakesh treaty and should be addressed, during the transposition phase, in eu member state legislation. nonetheless, i hope eu member states can give the treaty their approval so that it can finally be ratified this coming autumn.
mr president, i will make two very brief points. firstly, today i read a report issued by eu citizens in the united kingdom, highlighting the discrimination that they are now beginning to face in a variety of forms. this has been taken up by the british government minister. may i ask you, through your office, to provide the necessary assistance that the british government may need in order to make sure that this matter is stamped out immediately and that such discrimination cannot be tolerated? certainly it reminded me of a bygone era when adverts would be placed stating ‘no blacks and no dogs’. we will not tolerate any such discrimination. secondly, what powers do you have in your office, mr president, in terms of the award of a sakharov prize, when the holder of such a prize is then blatantly conducting activities, speaking words and carrying out actions which go against the very spirit on which such awards are given? how can we revisit the awards that have previously been given in such circumstances?
mr president, i wanted to echo mr proust’s words. his words were understandably with regard to the tragedy that has befallen the french territories across the caribbean, but i would also like to remind colleagues that, of course, there are british overseas territories also disastrously affected by this terrible hurricane irma, and also many independent sovereign countries, so please can we get to the mindset of support for all the caribbean nations, irrespective of whether they are french, british or independent sovereign territories. many people across that region have been affected very badly, so let’s make this as unpolitical as we possibly can.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, violence against women, and indeed all kinds of violence against any gender is something that all sides of the political spectrum can unanimously condemn. the uk has for many years played a leading role in protecting women, and this has statistically led to a decrease in domestic violence cases. despite this improvement, it is reported that in 2016 alone there were at least 1.3 million female victims of domestic abuse in the united kingdom. this is quite simply unacceptable in the 21st century and more must be done to tackle this worrying statistic. many member states in this union, including the united kingdom, are working towards making the necessary legislative changes to meet the criteria of the istanbul convention to allow full ratification. the eu accession to this convention therefore serves to provide the political leverage for the eu to further control the implementation of this convention in member states. national legislation, tougher judicial punishments and a greater emphasis on educating citizens is the best way to significantly combat violence against women across europe.
madam president, violence against women and domestic violence are inexcusable acts that achieve nothing other than undue suffering, misery and inequality on an unjustifiable scale. both have existed for far too long and have claimed too many victims. both constitute a gross violation of human rights and it cannot be clearer that action is urgently needed. the istanbul convention, the first legally binding instrument on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence at the international level, opens the door to fundamental change. it provides the recognition and the tools needed to put an end to the long history of such appalling violence, which has devastating consequences for individuals, families and society. as a whole, i therefore urge all member states that have not already done so to work towards the swiftest possible ratification of this convention. however, unfortunately some aspects of the interim report go way beyond the scope of the convention and encroach upon the competences of the member states themselves. i want to be absolutely clear that it is for this reason and this reason alone, that i do not support this report. unfortunately, because other members have not listened to those of us who had that reservation, i will have to abstain on this report.
madam president, my country, the uk, is i think sliding backwards into medieval times. in my childhood the following five crimes were virtually unheard of and now they are commonplace: female genital mutilation; breast ironing; forced marriage, which is effectively legalised rape; honour violence, which includes killing; and sexual grooming of vulnerable white girls by asian men. there is an enormous reluctance to prosecute the perpetrators of these crimes because they are either from ethnic minorities or adherents of islam and it is considered politically incorrect to criticise such groups generically. it is called racism. political correctness is the cornerstone of this european union and it is doing enormous damage to the safety of women. we now have a situation where perceived racism is a more serious crime than actual rape. we have got to stop political correctness and defend women.
mr president, after years of talking and endless calls for the eu to accede to the istanbul convention, i am very glad the time has finally come. however, beyond tomorrow’s vote, we must call for the convention to be implemented in full and without reservations and also call for all eu member states to do the same, including my own country, the uk, which has been dragging its heels. it is, colleagues, more urgent than ever to tackle gender-based violence. sadly, we have seen a recent wave of attacks, intimidation and harassment of women in politics and in the public sphere, from the tragic murder of labour mp jo cox in the uk last year to the torrents of online abuse against women in public life that have now become routine. we must address the root cause of violence against women and girls and that is the culture of misogyny, sexism and objectification which, frankly, allows violence to prevail. we must follow up the ratification with an ambitious european-wide strategy on gender-based violence and encourage sex- and relationship-education for mutual, respectful relationships.
in writing. – the european parliament is sending an important message to the world by supporting the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention - the first legally binding instrument to prevent and combat violence against women on an international level. women and girls have a right to live free from violence and the threat of violence. the istanbul convention provides a framework to raise standards and improve protections, and will make a huge difference to the lives of so many. i represent wales, where figures show that reported domestic violence increased by at least 23% between 2013 and 2015. estimates by the welsh government in 2014 show that domestic abuse affects 11% of women each year in wales. the situation requires urgent action and i urge the estonian presidency of the eu to facilitate ratification without delay.
rapporteur. – mr president, aviation accounts for approximately 2.1% of global co2 emissions. in the eu, direct co2 emissions from aviation account for approximately 3% of the total. with the anticipated growth in air traffic, emissions in 2050 are expected to be seven to ten times higher than in 1990. this is according to the international civil aviation organization (icao) and their projections. clearly such a growth necessitates a policy response. in this parliament we have taken the view that we must reduce the carbon impact of the growth in air travel. we all know the history of how we arrived where we are with ‘stop the clock’, so i do not intend to expand on that, but i do want to emphasise parliament’s commitment to working with icao to find a mutually acceptable position. to this end, during 2016, i led three separate delegations from parliament to icao in montreal. this represents an unprecedented level of commitment from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and we were very pleased to see an agreement in october 2016 to establish an offsetting system to deliver carbon neutral growth in the aviation sector. as a consequence, the commission was required to adopt a proposal for a regulation amending the 2003 emissions trading system (ets) directive with respect to aviation and this was presented earlier this year. since then we have moved at a fast pace in parliament with a view to reaching an agreement between co-legislators before the end of this year. under the eu ets aviation provisions – they have never applied in their original international scope due to legal challenges by third countries on the applicability of eu legislation to their airlines – only intra-eea flights are fully covered. in its proposal, the commission extends this derogation beyond 2017 and there is clarity about the new icao offsetting scheme and how it should apply to international flights when it enters into force in 2021. moreover, the commission text includes a review clause requiring it to report to parliament and the council on relevant developments in icao’s work and, if appropriate, propose to amend, delete or extend the derogation. in my report i fully support the commission’s approach, namely that we await progress on the global market-based measure (the gmbm). it is untrue and misleading to imply that my report does not take this position. as the rapporteur, i have proposed to augment the original proposal by adding a time limit on the latest derogation, aligned to fit with icao’s own decision—making deadlines. this reflects legitimate concern over the gmbm and whether it will deliver on its commitment to ensure carbon neutral growth from 2020. at present, based on the current negotiations within icao – and they are very current and going on as we speak – progress on the offsetting provisions has been painfully slow, with some parties – and i mention china in particular – now objecting to icao’s role in setting the rules for the gmbm. i believe it would be remiss to make a decision on the future of the ets in support of a gmbm that is, for the time being at least, vague and imprecise in its framework. a time—limited derogation is therefore required to maintain political pressure on the council, and indeed the commission, to develop a long—term regulatory solution. we must learn from the issues encountered with previous iterations of the legislation and provide the sector with much needed investor certainty as soon as work is completed on the gmbm’s reporting provisions on the transparency and the environmental integrity of the offset registry. the environment committee’s report also provides for the designation of revenues generated by auctioned allowances to climate finance, aircraft design and fuel-efficient technologies, plus a schedule for the commission’s review report and what it needs to include as a minimum, as well as stressing the need for enhanced transparency of icao’s work in preparing and implementing the scheme. the report carries over amendments pertinent to the aviation sector in the wider ets phase iv proposal, including an increase in the number of auctioned allowances, provisions already voted on in this house. for all these reasons, i think it is vital that parliament pursue the time limit on the derogation. details of the scheme from icao are not well enough advanced to be able to say with any certainty that they will be exactly as we currently see them. icao is a large international organisation with almost 200 member states and their internal negotiations are not yet complete. i do not believe that parliament should be complicit in undermining our own negotiating position and recommend that we vote accordingly.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, first i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs on the transport committee and other members who have been extremely supportive of our position. the committee on transport and tourism (tran) has supported for many years a single, global emissions scheme. it is imperative, commissioner, that the eu allows time for the ground-breaking international civil aviation organisation (icao) negotiation discussions to be concluded. as we know, constructive talks are already underway and it is vital that countries such as the us, china, india and others are included as they are major players in this field. i would note that the us can still be part of corsia as neither the aviation nor the maritime sectors are included in the cop. to avoid duplication and excessive bureaucracy, the global scheme must include all international intra-eea and domestic flights. to date, as you know, more than 70 countries have voluntarily signed up to the scheme, which between them emit nearly 90% of aviation co2 emissions worldwide. we believe that all future revenues should be ring-fenced by member states, and must be reinvested by an r&d project, such as single european sky, clean sky, sesar and others. to avoid the risk of a future snapback to the eu emissions trading system (ets), which severely damaged our international relations and our aerospace industries, it is vital that our proposed tran text amendments be supported. this will be the best opportunity that we have had for the european union to be part of a global solution, supported by member states, the commission, including commissioner bulc, and industry, and bringing all key world players onside. of course, commissioner, it is absolutely vital that we stop the clock.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to also join in thanking rapporteur girling for the excellent work that has taken place amongst all the groups. i think we have here a very balanced report and something that reflects the consensus on an issue as serious as this. as mr liese has just pointed out, we are no longer in a position where we can pretend that climate change isn’t happening. we are all very privileged in this place to be able to do something about it and we will not be thanked by future generations if we stand idly by. the truth of course is that many, many sectors are reducing their emissions but it is not the case in the aviation sector. the global-based market solution does make sense on paper and as many of the colleagues here who joined me and others on the trip to montreal will know, the international civil aviation organisation (icao) is very good at handling this process and we have a lot of faith in its ability to take us forward, but we do need that added pressure. we cannot just sit back and hope for the best and think that the carbon neutral growth proposed from 2020 will be sufficient. we have to see what the proposals will look like in concrete terms, and that is what this report does, of course, it gives the commission the criteria to judge the success or otherwise of icao’s process and it does, of course, send a strong signal that we do not want to undermine parliament’s existing stance on phase 4 of the emissions trading system. our group supports this proposal and i hope very much that parliament’s vote will reflect the strong consensus that we have been able to achieve.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is often said that we are united by more than that which divides us. i think that is the case here, despite two very clear points of view. there is a broad consensus on the need for climate change action in the aviation sector. that is clear. nobody stood here and said that we should do nothing. the main bone of contention seems to be the timing of – and indeed the confidence in – the icao process. so for those of you here who say that we should be cutting icao some more slack – and there do seem to be a number of ambassadors for icao here with us today – let me just say this. icao have known since 2008 that the eu wants to take action and we have been waiting for them to catch up. we have been doing exactly what we have been urged to do today: not leading too fast and making sure that there is time for details to be sorted out. we have been doing that since 2008. in 2013, they said they would be ready by 2016. in february 2016, i and many colleagues here went to montreal and they were talking about 2021. by september 2016, when we went back to montreal, they were talking about a voluntary scheme in 2021 and a possible mandatory scheme five or so years later. do not underestimate their ability to procrastinate. please do not throw away our leverage. we have to hold onto it. it would be – and i use this term which i hear all the time in the uk – an act of self-harm to do so. please, i appeal to colleagues, do not do it. it really will not get us anywhere. we must be firm.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in july in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety we voted on lulucf and here the central debate in the committee was around whether we supported the commission’s proposal to have a historic reference level, or we supported a different proposal coming from a minority of countries and a minority of meps for a future reference level. the s&d supported the commission position and the environment committee went on to support the position of the commission. and now we find ourselves in a strange situation because, having lost the argument about historic reference levels, the minority of countries and the minority of meps have come back with a wrecking amendment – a wrecking amendment that would remove the guts, the heart, from the commission’s proposal. if you remove the word ‘intensity’ from what is in front of us tonight, what is it that you would be measuring in relation to european forests? the whole purpose of the accounting system proposed by the commission is to measure the intensity with which we use our forests in the future compared to how we used them in the past. so if this amendment goes through, then you take the heart out of what it was that we at the environment committee and at the commission level were trying collectively to achieve. so, please, when it comes to the vote on wednesday, support the motion as it is, produced by the rapporteur from the epp. it is a compromise but it is fine, we all agreed it, we can work on it, but there is only one amendment, notice, only one amendment, and that amendment must be opposed because it represents narrow-minded individual country interests. support the commission proposal which is for an eu-wide climate change response in line with the paris agreement, keeping the word ‘intensity’. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is a debate that we have had throughout the lulucf discussion. there are two things on the table: there is how we manage our forests, which admittedly is a nation-state responsibility, but there is also how we tackle climate change – and that is an eu-wide responsibility. you have to decide, ultimately, which is more important: individual country plans for forests, or how we tackle climate change collectively at an eu level. i know which is more important. i know which is more important for our children and the future of this planet. i hope that you would realise.
mr president, last week i was invited by the polish greens to take action against logging in białowieża forest, europe’s oldest forest and a vital carbon sink. whilst the eu is trying to protect this particular forest, it is simultaneously incentivising logging elsewhere in europe through failing to control land use and biofuels. enhancing carbon sinks through sustainable land and forestry management has long been recognised as an important pillar of carbon reduction, but the sloppy carbon accounting put forward in this regulation on land use management leaves a gaping loophole which would allow for increased logging in the eu. at the same time, the biofuel industry are pushing for high targets and renewables that would also increase deforestation. we need the eu to show leadership and take our paris climate targets seriously. when will we wake up to the stark reality of climate change, start protecting our forests and begin to see the wood for the trees?
madam president, it is excellent to see this comprehensive report on transparency and accountability in the eu institutions. if we expect to represent our constituents properly in a democratic eu, we need to make sure our constituents can see what we are doing and know that we have their best interests at heart. when former commissioner barroso announced his job with a big bank last year, i joined many colleagues to call for the commission’s rules on conflicts of interest to be tightened, and i am glad to see that demand being made once again in this report. that should accompany greater transparency in this house, too, including an effective mandatory transparency register. there is more work to do, but at least we can demonstrate that we will keep on pushing forwards for more ethical politics.
madam president, it is not the first time that crimes against humanity have taken place against the rohingya community. this parliament has previously passed two resolutions on myanmar last year, and yet the brutality and even atrocities continue against the rohingya muslims. how many more women will be raped? how many more children will be tortured? how many more villages will be burnt? what will it take for this genocide and ethnic cleansing to be stopped? the resolution on thursday needs to go further than any previous resolution, including economic and political sanctions against the myanmar government. the international community needs to move faster. we need urgent action and impact now. we will need to recognise the rohingya muslims and support humanitarian efforts – not just now, immediately, but in the long term. this institution – the eu – is based on the values of peace and cooperation. it is only right that we show solidarity and play our part in bringing peace, justice and prosperity in burma.
madam president, when i was elected in 2014, i decided to be a voice for people who did not have a voice. this parliament offers a powerful platform and we should be mindful to draw attention to ethnic minorities and indigenous people, whose rights are trampled over by voracious global interests or who are marginalised by poor public policy and a lack of investment. whether it is the xikrin people of amazonia whom i visited last month, whose lives are unsustainable because of mineral extraction, deforestation, land grabs and political corruption, or the roma population of europe who were victims of the nazi holocaust and who continue to suffer terrible discrimination, we should remember them in our political discourse, cherish their cultural distinctiveness and speak out against those who abuse them. when we do so, we can be a force for good. i am glad therefore that ahead of roma pride on 1 october, the czech government has announced they will end the scandal of the pig farm lety on the site of a roma genocide. meanwhile, the xikrin have won an important injunction to halt the onca puma mining project and will receive full compensation for its poisonous effects. we can do good.
madam president, on 10 march 2016, tony taylor, a republican from my home town of derry, was detained and interned on the instructions of the then british secretary of state for the north, theresa villiers. today, over a year later, no evidence has been produced to justify his detention, nor indeed his arrest. if evidence exists, it should be presented to the courts. his continued detention is a breach of human rights and an affront to justice. this is why sinn féin has been calling for his immediate release from maghaberry prison and why i, along with the newly elected mp for the north, elisha mccallion, will visit tony taylor on friday. the refusal to release him raises serious concerns about political interference in the criminal justice system in the north. internment was wrong in the 1970s and it is still wrong. this is tony taylor. (the speaker held up a photograph of mr taylor). he should be immediately released.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i must say that promotion of the internet connectivity in local communities is of course absolutely vital, but why are we doing it at some eu level? this is something which can be done perfectly well at nation-state level. indeed, eur 120 million – where is the money going to go? is it going to be properly audited, what is going to happen to it? i think my constituency will be very concerned about eur 120 million being spent on this. and why are we looking at it in a european perspective? it is of course the world wide web, invented by britain, i might add. and of course we always do this, we sort of think that europe can tackle something, well let’s think wider: would mr juncker restrict himself to european wine? i think not. there is good wine in australia and south africa. so let’s look at this at nation-state or worldwide level, not at european level.
madam president, the news that new funding will be available for free wifi hotspots across the eu will be welcomed by local authorities and citizens who are able to avail of the scheme. as with the elimination of roaming charges, this has the potential to benefit tourists, residents and businesses alike. however, it is also clear that we have some way to go in terms of our broadband infrastructure, particularly in rural areas. in the modern era, access to the internet has become almost as important as utilities such as electricity. it is deeply concerning that there is a level of inequality in the terms of access to broadband connections. for instance, broadband provision in my own constituency of northern ireland lags behind the rest of the united kingdom as a whole and, within northern ireland, there is a divide between urban and rural areas. i want to see our rural communities flourish and local businesses grow and remain competitive in an increasingly digitised marketplace. we need to support businesses and consumers with high-quality broadband infrastructure and equality in terms of access.
mr president, it is quite something when scottish power has its head office in bilbao, spain. many constituents will be surprised to find that a majority of power companies operating in the united kingdom are either owned by foreign companies or foreign governments. in 2011, these companies were exposed by a national newspaper as hiking prices in the uk way above and beyond prices in their own countries. prices are hiked in the uk to subsidise lower prices at home. as always, it is the uk that pays, and pay we do! millions of brits face the tough choice each winter between heating and eating. we suffered tens of thousands of excess winter deaths. in plain english, that is folk who would otherwise be alive if they could afford decent heating. this debate is about security of gas supply. the surest way to do that is to ensure energy is readily available to those that need it most – our elderly and vulnerable. if it means bringing british energy back under british control to reduce prices, then so be it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – in some ways the rules of this place and the single market prevent the british government from taking an active role in the economy, and mr corbyn will not be able to fulfil his programme if we are still part of the single market or part of the european union. outside of it, we have new opportunities where the government, if it wishes to take a golden share or own energy companies, will be free to do so. i think that when we have got tens of thousands of people dying every year because they cannot afford to heat their homes, then everything – every option – should be on the table.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the card. i noticed that in your speech you spoke about diversity of energy supplies, and during this whole debate people have been speaking about the concern about keeping control of energy supplies flowing. would it not be sensible, in that case, for this place not to have ruled out in so many cases further research into nuclear energy or into fracking – which are, after all, the sources of energy of the future, far cheaper, and things we can develop here without having to rely on russia, for example?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, fipronil raises two key points which must be answered. first, what is the reality of the threat to human health? the mere fact that something is prohibited tells us nothing about the severity of the threat. nor did the discussion in the committee on agriculture and rural development. are we talking about potential organ failure or would you have to consume such vast quantities that, in reality, there may be a technical hazard but the risk is minimal? we do need to know. controlling red mite on chickens is a very big animal welfare issue and there must be a sound reason not to use the best materials. secondly, this is demonstrating a failure of the single market. although used on british cats and dogs, this material cannot be used by british egg producers because it has not been allocated a health and safety executive number. meanwhile british consumers eat imported eu eggs whose producers benefit from the competitive advantage that fipronil brings. the scandal has resulted in british consumers losing confidence in eggs generically and the british producer is paying the price for the sins of other eu producers.
mr president, it is a fact that fipronil is not permitted for use around animals destined for human consumption. this situation is yet though another example of why the european union’s fundamental principle of the free movement of goods, services and people is in direct conflict with the protection of citizens of member states, in this context in terms of public health. the free movement of goods allowed these insecticide-contaminated goods into the human food chain in the same way that horse meat from eastern europe turned up in supposedly beef products. checks were simply not enforced. furthermore, the fact that the netherlands chose not to act upon the 2016 tip-off completely rubbishes the idea that the european union enhances cooperation between member states. whilst the european union obsesses – and i mean obsesses – about regulation, its own inherent freedom of movement weakness creates a perfect breeding ground for dangerous products to slip into the food chain and endanger public health. just last month, bloomberg agreed with this point of view in an article entitled ‘even european union regulators can’t stamp out food scandals’.
blue-card question. – quite rightly, this debate is focused on the fraud and the failure of information. but there is a vital fundamental problem we are not addressing, and that is the nature of our industrialised farming system, which has been linked to a long list of previous animal diseases and diseases in animal products. when animals are kept in cramped, unsanitary and inhumane conditions, disease breaks out. so i would like to ask mrs schreijer-pierik, whilst fipronil is obviously prohibited now, does she not recognise that link between the style of farming and these continuing problems that we are seeing?
mr president, i rise under rule 184 and refer to the english version of the paper, page 10 of 24, section 4, which makes the sentence that parliament ‘strongly affirms that the denial of sexual and reproductive health and rights services, including safe and legal abortion, is a form of violence against women’. this clause could effectively make it a criminal offence for anyone who believes in the reduction of abortion or believes in abortion. the accompanying legal paper that is attached to it makes no reference to the potential crime of being an abortion denier. i would therefore ask in respect that the legal team refer to this document and review it once again, otherwise millions of people in the european union as a result of this could be deemed a criminal immediately upon this vote.
mr president, the united kingdom is a major component of the european union space programme, and in my united kingdom south—east regional constituency i have companies and universities at the forefront of developing responses to the challenges of space exploration and development. the united kingdom’s role will not diminish post—brexit. hence i voted to ensure that this pivotal role continues as part of a vibrant and energetic response to the challenges from the likes of china, india, russia and the united states.
mr president, academic further and distance education as part of a life-long learning strategy are to be commended, and they do not require the european union membership to enact. i have supported this vote to ensure that young people across member states have a level playing field in terms of the instruments available to achieve their educational goals. the challenge, though, will be for national governments to ensure that commercial suppliers now deliver.
mr president, high—speed internet connectivity is an important tool towards encouraging the creation of jobs and attracting inward investment. since 2008, dup ministers in the department for the economy in northern ireland have channelled approximately gbp 65 million into upgrades in our telecoms networks. we are also delighted that, as part of a confidence and supply deal with our government, gbp 150 million will be invested in ultra-fast broadband across our province over the next two years. it is now important that this money reaches those in greatest need, particularly in rural areas where internet speeds are poor. the sinn féin refusal to form an executive government by holding northern ireland to ransom because of a political wish list will not stop this vital investment from going ahead. however, it does hold the potential to prevent local ministers from making local decisions on how it is spent. it is now time that sinn féin – and those who in recent weeks have chosen to prop them up – remove all the barriers towards the restoration of devolution in northern ireland.
mr president, i have supported this vote, despite real misgivings that it was not taut enough, on the basis that at least it is a step in the right direction. but if the european union was actually serious about tackling this issue it would propose enforceable sanctions, but of course the european union is dependent on norwegian oil and gas, and hence that is a step too far. norway hunts minke whales under a so-called international whaling commission objection, the hunt relies on state subsidies and the government is constantly searching for new markets to exploit – with young people and tourists being major targets. norway has aggressively fought to retain its right to hunt whales, despite it being unnecessary, uneconomical and unquestionably cruel. i am calling upon norway to stop it, and to stop it today.
mr president, in july, the department of justice published statistics which demonstrated that one in eight people in northern ireland have suffered domestic violence from a partner. the same survey finds that between 2015 and 2016 victims only reported roughly a third of the worst cases to police. even more shocking was the fact that three quarters of those serious incidents of abuse occurred within what remained current, active relationships. these are unacceptable figures. we must do everything in our power to tackle these awful abuses and assist victims to safely and successfully free themselves from abusive domestic environments. it is wrong that the psni should currently have to respond to one domestic incident every 19 minutes. i welcome the commitment by the home secretary, amber rudd, to bring forward domestic legislation in the form of the domestic violence and abuse bill. international agreements are fine. however, the greatest priority of legislators should be targeted, local interventions that benefit victims in the hardest—to—reach situations.
mr president, i voted in favour today because, through globalisation, companies increasingly rely on long, global supply chains to produce the goods that we consume every day. this poses major challenges to ensure the enforcement of international standards, whether labour rights or environmental protection – an impossible task to undertake on our own. we urgently need common rules with our trading partners so that global value chains amount to more than just offshoring and outsourcing of jobs and pollution, hurting both our workers and the planet. today’s report offers a key means of achieving this by advocating a shift away from the failed voluntary self—regulation to mandatory due diligence. the oecd is moving on this, the g20 is moving on this, and, whether we are inside or outside the european union, the commission and the uk government must move on this too.
rapporteur. – mr president, in april this year this house agreed to an increase in the parliament’s annual budget of 2.3%. bearing in mind the level of inflation, i thought that was a realistic proposition and i recommend it be taken as a benchmark for the other institutions. so, i am happy to report that the majority of the other institutions accept that point, and i am happy to say that they have made similar proposals. there are three exceptions that i would mention to the house. first, the european data protection supervisor has been tasked with expanding his activities, and of course this would involve an abnormal expenditure on his part in 2018. secondly, the european court of auditors are faced with a large increase in workload, and this too i accept as a legitimate and a reasonable demand. finally, the european court of justice makes a very strong case for increased funding, both because of raised activity levels and increased translation costs, and for addressing some significant security issues. faced with these extra costs, therefore, it is my judgement that the council has cut some of the funding levels too far, and i recommend to this house that we reinstate some of those levels. nevertheless, to keep the overall level of budget expenditure under control, we need to achieve further savings. in part, i propose to meet those additional costs through efficiency gains, and here i am happy to report that the court of auditors have gone some way to meeting us in that respect. but in part two we have to exercise budgetary discipline, and in so doing we will have to redistribute some of the funding. to that end, i propose to freeze the budgets of the committee of regions and the european economic and social committee for the year 2018. i am also conscious that the european external action service faces significant rising costs – in part due to increased staffing levels, but also partly due to the cost of the strategic communications programme. most of this cost should be absorbed by the eeas from their current budget, but i do accept there may be need for a small upward adjustment when we have the precise figures. mr president, i ask this house to bear in mind that, if you agree with me that the figure agreed for this parliament of 2.3% is a reasonable and responsible increase, and if we are to apply that to the other sections, then there will be tough, difficult decisions to be made. i look forward to discussing my proposals with the shadows in the coming weeks, and i hope for their support.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, we should remember that our defence industries are vital elements of our national security, as well as our national economic well-being. we should not underestimate their importance. five european countries are among the world’s top ten arms exporters. like our armed forces, the arms industries of european countries are well regulated and responsibly controlled. we have export control regimes, primarily to ensure that, as far as possible, weapons and key components do not get into the wrong hands, and by that i mean our potential enemies, rogue states and terrorists. we don’t want to impose more regulation on our own national industries merely to advance the cause of eu political integration, and i should mention that my own country, the united kingdom, already has a robust and comprehensive arms export control system irrespective, by the way, of eu activity. while there is much in the valero report we can agree with, we also take issue on a number of points. most of these concern the constant effort to enhance the role of the eu over its member states. i very much hope the parliament will reject any suggestion of sanctions against a member state not complying with a common position, and similarly, we don’t see the necessity, in these times of budgetary pressure, for the establishment of eu funds to be used for capacity-building among licensing and enforcement officials in member states. i am pleased that, following the acceptance of our amendment, there is at least mention of the un’s international arms trade treaty, but this is under-played – and thank you, by the way, mr maasikas, for your emphasis on this. we have to ask why there is a necessity for increased eu activity in this area when it is the wider international community that needs to be taking action. in fact, very little mention is made of the countries that have been the worst abusers in the international arms trade system, feeding violent insurgency and terrorism in all continents of the world. i think of russia, iran, pakistan, north korea, china: this is where we should focus our attention. none of these countries are signatories to the un arms trade treaty, while all eu member states are. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – this debate on the arms trade coincides with blockades and demonstrations against the world’s biggest so-called ‘arms fair’ taking place in london, and shortly after prime minister may’s trade visit to saudi arabia. can i ask mr van orden whether he will vote in favour of the valero report, which calls for an end to arms sales to saudi, which are being used to kill yemeni children?
blue-card answer. – i notice you had prepared your question before i had even started to speak, and also i don’t like the formulation you have used in your question to me. of course i condemn totally the killing of children and other civilians in situations of armed conflict. but a ban on arms exports to saudi arabia? no, i don’t support that. by the way, there was an action taken by the campaign against the arms trade – and of course, this is where it all comes from – against the united kingdom government. it was heard in the high court of the united kingdom in july of this year, and the high court came out in favour of the british government. we don’t have time for me to read the whole judgment, but i am very happy to circulate it to you. basically it found that the decision of the secretary of state of the united kingdom not to suspend export licences to the kingdom of arabia was not irrational or unlawful indeed, and it was fully backed.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the export of arms and munitions should depend on the assessment of an individual and truly sovereign government. whilst critical and sceptical of many areas of my own government’s policy in this area, i believe that such policy must always remain in their hands alone and thereby be directly accountable to the british electorate. it is well known that such a contentious issue will always factor into a general election campaign. the aims of this report precisely restrict that democratic accountability by suggesting that following brexit, the uk should remain tied to the common eu position. i firmly reject this notion, and whilst her majesty’s government has remained light on detailing our future defence arrangements and foreign policy ties through their future partnership paper, released only this morning, it is, quite frankly, vague and lacking in detail. such a lack of clarity is unhelpful to all sides and will probably only serve to further frustrate matters. it is not good enough. to truly regain our independence in this area, the uk must withdraw from the eu military command structure and work on a truly bilateral basis and where necessary, use nato as a conduit on areas of operational crossover. that is what the british electorate voted for when deciding to leave the european union in last year’s referendum.
madam president, as we are speaking, the defence and security equipment international fair is happening right now in london’s docklands where it happens every two years. it features 1 500 or more exhibitors from all around the world, displaying arms ranging from sniper rifles, to tanks, to combat aircraft, to warships. they are joined by trade visitors and military delegations, including those from human rights abusing regimes and countries involved in conflict. this fair is organised by clarion events and the british government department’s defence and security organisation, whose support is crucial to its success. but it takes place in secret, behind heavily protected security fences and police lines designed to allow arms dealers to trade their wares unhindered by transparency or public protest, and it is subsidised by the uk taxpayer. so i really welcome this report and all the people who have spoken in support of more transparency.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we sit today in a post—conflict parliament. decades ago we sat down, talked and found a way to peace and reconciliation in europe. this is what the eu is about. in asia, astonishingly, the korean war is not over. for the last 64 years we have failed to get out of a state of war and sign a peace regime. because security and prosperity in the eu is closely linked to peace in asia, together we urgently need to bring the korean peninsula from an armistice into a post—conflict phase through a peace regime. nuclear weapons are now a part of the korean regime’s self-identity. it considers them as essential to its survival, not only as deterrent weapons – it has learned a lesson from gaddafi and hussein – but also as legitimacy weapons. this must be made a transitional position, and denuclearisation must remain our medium-term objective. violations of the un security council resolutions inevitably lead to sanctions: that is a given. yet sanctions alone will not lead to denuclearisation nor to peace. sanctions must come with optimistic diplomacy. optimistic diplomacy believes that we all want – including the north koreans – to live in peaceful coexistence. i am now happy that president moon, chancellor merkel and many european leaders recognise the importance of diplomacy, a course of action i have been urging for the past three years, having had 42 meetings with north koreans, south koreans, chinese, americans and japanese. i congratulate mrs mogherini on what she has been doing recently in asia. my intention now is to go to north korea in my private capacity to listen in the pursuit of a peace regime to help the eu. colleagues, i need your support and your blessings. it is our public duty as public servants to ensure global peace. united we must act.
madam president, the pace of the development of the situation on the korean peninsula precisely underlines how quickly serious security threats can form, underlining the importance of a well-funded and properly manned and equipped defence capability. as my country moves towards full independence from the european union, we must ensure that we have a robust, flexible and well-funded defence capability that can fulfil our defence obligations, whilst being in a good enough position to respond to the full spectrum of likely potential future threats. i welcome yesterday’s unanimous vote by the un security council to impose further sanctions on north korea, and must say that i fear that it will be impossible to seriously negotiate with a regime that is headed by someone who is reputed to have overseen the deaths of his own brother and uncle. with respect to the earlier speaker, does this parliament really believe that the european union has a diplomatic role to play here, beyond supporting the united states? there are reports of germany acting as an intermediary, and if that is so, it is clearly a matter for germany and it would be immoral of the european union to try to take some of their credit were a mutually acceptable result to be achieved.
madam president, sanctions against north korea are just a public relations exercise to show that you are actually doing something. sanctions hurt the ordinary people. kim jong-un will let his people eat grass, but they will not turn away from him because they know that he provides security for them. sanctions imposed on north korea just make pyongyang’s tin—pot tyrant more angry and isolated. as you know, north korea will continue to export via front companies in china and malaysia, so what can you do? it is china that holds the key to north korea. north korea is a client state, so penalising china, imposing sanctions and restricting access to western markets is really the key to the denuclearisation of north korea. at the same time, the west can protect itself against unfair trade, competition and dumping. as you know, that is the view in the white house and i think it is shared by russia as well, so you should be listening to what those two states have to say on this.
madam president, the whole world is quivering as we find ourselves caught between north korean president kim jong-un playing boys’ games with nuclear weapons and a us president more eager to have a macho standoff than diffuse tensions. this is a lethal combination. yesterday the un security council adopted the toughest sanctions on north korea so far, and eu foreign affairs ministers consider adopting additional restrictive measures. what we have to recognise is that, when you have a president with nuclear weapons who would rather let his people wither than commit to peace, sanctions alone will not cut it. the us, china and russia are now leading the dance, but the eu could do so too. we have proved under the vienna deal on iran’s nuclear programme how our involvement and leadership can be crucial in turning around a situation of potentially devastating conflict and achieving peace and security for our citizens. high representative, i call upon you to listen to the citizens. they do not want fury and fire like the world has never seen, which was promised by the us president. that is why i call on you to go further than imposing sanctions and adopt a clear plan of action to be backed by the eu. (the president cut off the speaker)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think what we have to recognise is the we have a us president who does not appear to have the wit or the diplomatic skills to be able to defuse the situation, and that’s why i am calling on federica mogherini to try and step in. we have done this before. i did not say who has nuclear weapons or not; all i am saying is that there is very dangerous rhetoric out there, and we cannot just stand off and say that none of this matters. i think the european union could be the leading [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – i wanted to ask mr sógor a very simple question which has not been asked during this debate. why is kim jong-un making nuclear weapons? for what end? to have himself destroyed? so what is the purpose of all this? i know the answer. he wants to sit at a negotiating table and discuss a peace treaty. but i wanted mr sógor to answer the question.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, eu-turkey relations have become an all-too-familiar hotly-debated topic in this house. just as turkey drifts even further from western democratic norms on the domestic scene, its foreign policy decisions become ever more contrary to those of the european union and nato allies. most recently we saw a usd 2.5 billion contract to purchase the russian s400 anti-aircraft weapon system. this decision shows not only a disregard for the current strained relations between russia and the west but also raises questions about its continued policy in syria that diverges from that of the european union and nato: particularly now also turkey’s offensive against the pyd fighters, against isis in syria – another example – also its bullying of cyprus in its attempts to rightfully explore for oil in its territorial waters. the situation inside turkey, meanwhile, continues to reel from last year’s coup attempt. despite already purging over 100 000 individuals from the civil service and the judiciary as well as arresting a further 50 000 people, it seems that the process continues unabated. recent figures of 601 individuals arrested; 450 of them were accused of having gulenist sympathies. amid such developments, it is no wonder that chancellor merkel has called for the scrapping of eu accession talks for turkey. i personally have long questioned the merits of turkey’s accession to the european union, and it seems now that such questions are coming to a head.
mr president, the human rights situation in turkey continues to deteriorate. a group of prominent human rights defenders, arrested in july, are still in prison on false charges. the director of amnesty international turkey, idil eser, spent time in solitary confinement and has not been able to meet with her family. these defenders must be released unconditionally. they must have our full support and they must be given humane conditions while they are in detention, such as family visits. the high representative and commission statements have not been strong enough on this. we need resolute action and we need loud words. can we have clear commitment from the commissioner and ms mogherini right now to make sure these human rights defenders are set free?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, given events in venezuela during the past year, the autocratic tendencies of president maduro’s rule are now self—evident. neutralising the legitimately elected national assembly by convening a bogus constituent assembly, relying on the judgments of a pliant judiciary, repressing protests by violent crackdowns that have killed at least 130 people are all hallmarks of a wannabe dictator and, in his case, not a very clever one at that. it should also be remarked that most of the country’s opposition leaders have found themselves banned from politics, jailed or under house arrest. as is illustrated by jeremy corbyn, the leader of the british labour party in my own member state, there are many in this parliament that wish to turn a blind eye to the undermining of democracy in venezuela because of long—held sympathies for the hugo chavez model of socialism in latin america. this now is a disservice to the millions of ordinary venezuelans that are suffering from the ongoing political and economic mess and turmoil that maduro has created. chronic food and medical shortages continue to persist, a fact made all the more galling for a country with one of the world’s largest proven oil reserves. i believe strongly that the oas, with eu support, must maintain the pressure on venezuela to prevent the emergence of another cuban dictatorship in latin america.
mr president, colleagues, during the summer recess i spent 12 days in brazilian amazonia, and during that time i met with politicians, lawyers, academics, students, rural educators, government workers, indigenous people, environmentalists, young people, cultural activists and the media. i visited vast mines which are despoiling the land and polluting the river systems. i flew deep into the forest and saw the burning of trees to make way for cattle. i visited the 400-year-old town that will be destroyed by mega-hydroelectric dams, built not for public benefit but to accelerate industrial processing of minerals to line the pockets of the rich. whilst i was in marabá, the mayor of a neighbouring municipality was assassinated – the third such murder in a few weeks. i attended vigils for landless peasants massacred by hired guns. it is quite clear that brazil is descending into chaos, with a corrupt authoritarian government, totally in hock to the agricultural lobby and the extractive industries. president temer and his business cronies are, frankly, a danger to the whole of society.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate cristian dan preda on an excellent and well-balanced report which i am sure parliament will approve and which i know will also find approval in india. having said that, i must express some disappointment that we talk about enhanced relations with india but here we are at nearly 10.45 p.m. in an empty chamber. the council is not even present. is this really the importance that we attach to relations with one of the great countries of the world, a future superpower, its economy growing at over 7% per year, an ambitious middle class of over 200 million people, a country with great skills, a government under mr modi that is now addressing some of the great problems of rural poverty, many areas of potential partnership. our bilateral trade, i have to say, between european countries and india is at disappointingly low levels and there are all these other issues which cristian dan preda has touched on. there is so much more to do. is it not time that we really paid attention properly to our relations with this great country?
mr president, i too want to congratulate cristian dan preda on this report, which i believe is really key in terms of building our relationship with one of the world’s fastest-growing economies and a global power. i believe we share a vision for the future based on shared values, including sustainable development. we face many of the challenges which cristian has already outlined – climate change, terrorism, protecting the rule of law, managing migration and respect for human rights. but tackling inequality and ensuring our citizens are ready for the technological area is key. these are really issues where we need to join forces and work together. i do regret that relations have been on the back burner for a while in the past, but i believe strongly that this report is a vital step in building a long-term cooperation and partnership and reviving negotiations on the trade and investment deal. i understand there will be a summit in the near future, and it is important that this leads to real concrete actions based on ambitions this parliament has outlined in your report today. last but not least, let me underscore that one of the main dimensions of our strategic partnership should be people. that is why we asked to promote exchanges on education, expand erasmus+ to allow opportunities for students, but also to increase contacts, dialogue and mobility in areas like it, research and culture. once again, it was a pleasure, cristian, to work with you on this. well done and good collaboration.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to mr juncker that when it comes to jobs, security and freedom, a europe that protects cannot be a europe that is protectionist. the ecr group believes that the eu needs to create more opportunities, not more regulations and more agencies. many of our citizens tell us that they feel as if they have little say in the decisions we make about their lives, their countries and their futures. when it comes to their concerns over migration, security and jobs, they prefer an eu that complements their national and local governments, not seek to overrule them. speaking as both a future neighbour who wishes to see a prosperous eu trading and cooperating with a prosperous uk, and speaking today as one of the leaders of the ecr group with meps from across the eu, being critical of the policies of the eu should not be seen as an attack on the eu, but a genuine desire to see an eu which regains the trust and confidence of its citizens. as a liberal conservative and a passionate believer in free trade, i welcome the emphasis on open trade in your speech. but modern open trade needs countries to shed the cloak of protectionism. modern open trade needs to be open to the latest investment in technology to allow frictionless borders. modern open trade needs faster broadband networks to allow smes to trade securely online with the rest of the world. and for our businesses and economies to thrive, let us prioritise the refit agenda. let us improve access to finance for businesses, small and large, via peer-to-peer lending and crowdfunding. let us train our workers with the skills demanded by modern digital economies. but also, let us unleash the spirit of free enterprise in our young people to create their own businesses, and let them be allowed to try and try again if at first they do not succeed. because, just as soviet five-year plans did not create creative economies, eu growth plans do not create jobs: it is businesses that create jobs. we must also remember that our economic prosperity depends upon global stability, and we cannot show disunity in our dealings with russia or other unpleasant regimes. we must maintain sanctions and show in words and in action at the eastern partnership summit that, for countries like ukraine, nato, the eu and the west can offer them a better, stronger and more stable future than turning to face the east. mr juncker, no one expects there to be a quick fix to all the challenges, or for you to have all the answers by the next time we meet. but the people outside of this building want to know that the people inside this building will continue to steady the ship and not set sail into yet more storms. so no matter what side of the argument, or what side of the channel, all our countries need to prepare to face the global challenges from a position of optimism, from a position of strength, and from a position of honesty with our voters.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to say to mr juncker that this was the most open, honest and truly worrying speech i have heard in my long years in this place. the message is very clear: brexit has happened, full steam ahead. so new plans: there is to be one powerful president for the whole of the european union; a finance minister with fresh powers to – as you say yourself – intervene as and when he sees necessary; a stronger european army in a militarised european union with a stronger, and perhaps more aggressive, foreign policy too; and more europe in every single direction, and all of it to be done without the consent of the people. your plan to fight the next european elections with pan-european lists, funded by the european union, but not, as you said, to fund extremists, means that what we will find is that genuine democratic parties of opposition will not be able to compete in elections on the same playing field. it is reminiscent of regimes of old. indeed, the way you are treating hungary and poland must already remind them of living under the soviet communists when you attempt to tell them how they should run their own countries. all i can say is thank god we’re leaving, but you have learned nothing from brexit. if you had given cameron concessions, particularly on immigration, the brexit vote – i have to admit – would never ever have happened, and yet the lesson you take is that you are going to centralise and you are going to move on to this new – i think very worrying –undemocratic union. you are deluding yourself, mr verhofstadt, if you think that the ‘populist wave’, as you define it, is over. if these plans of mr juncker’s come to fruition, far from the populist wave being over, i doubt it has even begun. (applause)
madam president, i am so pleased that mr juncker thinks everything in the eu garden is rosy. there is no mention of the 50 000 jihadists waiting to blow us up, who have got in through your failed immigration policies, and no mention of your failed immigration policies and the marauding migrants breaking into our countries. at least the eastern european countries have got the right idea. there is no mention of your failed youth employment schemes, but there is good news. in the uk, we have record employment, despite brexit, we have got record inward investment, despite brexit, the volume of output is the highest in 20 years, despite brexit, and bill gates said that despite brexit, britain can still lead in the science and technology institutes. our order books are the highest in 30 years, despite brexit, the city of london is still number one, despite brexit. so i am sorry to invade your space, mr juncker, but you, the eu and your ideas are really past their sell-by date.
rapporteur. – mr president, in line with rule 59(4), sub-paragraph 4, i would like to ask for a referral back to committee to start negotiations.
mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to make my first speech here in the main plenary of the european parliament. i am pleased to see that positive relations with india are continuing to grow. the european union has much to gain for india is a great country, and i wish the european union well with those links. but of course britain has got its own important links with india. we have both been members of the commonwealth for decades, and we have cultural, family, and trading links that go back centuries. i am confident that once britain is again an independent country we will re-establish and grow our historic links with india and to other countries within the commonwealth, and that is just one reason why i am confident that brexit is going to be a great success.
mr president, i too supported this report on strengthening cooperation with india. after all, it is the world's largest democracy, and it is certainly worth trying to enforce a free trade agreement with this country. for me, as a member of parliament for the czech republic, this has a certain national connotation. the czech president and some of the czech left are very concerned about relations with china, russia and some other non-democratic countries, and i think the answer to that is to strengthen cooperation with india, which is not behind china in terms of size and importance, and yet it is a democratic country. i think we should also consider who we are working with, what political regime is in place in the country, and whether the country is not only economically strong, but also respects human rights and democratic principles. india is at least trying.
mr president, today we voted to impose strict limits on the ‘stop the clock’ policy on international aviation. for decades now, we have lived in hope that the aviation industry will regulate itself and introduce the limits on emissions our planet so desperately needs. so far, we have allowed the only industry that is rapidly increasing its carbon emissions to continue posing a catastrophic threat to the climate and that at a time when the caribbean is experiencing the worst ever hurricane season. when i became an mep, i pledged that i would travel to brussels by train and that i would only fly once in my mandate. how ironic that this flight will be later this week, and will take me through the hurricane zone itself. within europe, we urgently need to stop aviation’s free ride on the climate by ending their tax breaks and introducing a frequent flyer levy. outside europe, we need to implement ambitious emissions reduction targets for aviation as soon as possible, because nature is making it very clear that she is not ‘stopping the clock’.
mr president, it has been two years since this scandal erupted, but for decades before that drivers suspected that the statistics manufacturers advertised were over-ambitious, shall we say. the volkswagen scandal confirmed those fears were right. in fact things were far worse than most consumers had suspected, so it is fair for people to ask: what are we doing about it? two years on, there are concrete changes we can point to, but a lot more work to be done as well. firstly, real driving emissions testing legislation became mandatory for new car models at the start of this month. that is a huge step forward in ending the golden lab culture, and a big deterrent to cheat. but two years on, there is still a lot more to do. the emission scandal exposed failures well beyond just testing rules. most fundamentally, it exposed a failure of culture at some carmakers, and a cosy club between manufacturers and governments’ approval authorities and technical services, but also that there was virtually no ongoing market surveillance. opening up that club to greater transparency and restoring public trust is at the heart of the new type approval and market surveillance regime that we are now negotiating with the council. the parliament report proposed a system that would do just that: proper market surveillance obligations on member states, and the commission mandated to check for failings in national market surveillance; reviews and audits of all parts of the testing and approval process, to shine a light on weaknesses at every stage. so i would urge the council to take on board parliament’s very sensible views in our negotiations. once we have new rules in place, all the key components in preventing another scandal will be in place, but until we do that, the broken system remains in place. so two years on, let’s finally close the door on the emission scandal once and for all.
mr president, thank you very much. i'd like to start with the positives, if i may. firstly, the reference in the state of the union speech this morning by president juncker was very welcome in that he acknowledged that consumers had been ‘intentionally tricked’ and that the automobile industry must make amends for that. and secondly you snuck in an announcement there on the conformity factor review which is due now in a report. i welcome that, obviously, and wait to see it with bated breath, but let's be clear: we will only accept a conformity factor of one. if we here set the margins, set the rules on the limits on what cars can emit, we can't then have other deals being made that allow cars to emit far more than we here in these institutions agree is legally acceptable. i have to agree with the comments that have been made. okay, there are some welcoming comments, but they are really around the margins of what we're talking about here. we do need a comprehensive strategy across the board. we're already seeing a variety of different approaches in different member states. some are happy with voluntary recalls, others are perfectly okay with cars still on their streets polluting many, many more times the limits, even over and above the conformity factors after they've been applied. where is the commission's approach on having that unified european standard? where is the programme in place to ensure that that variety of responses that we're seeing from member states can be collected in one place? because my colleague kathleen van brempt was absolutely spot on when she made reference to the future of the car industry. we are talking about millions of jobs across this continent, and nobody in their right mind would want to see those jobs go elsewhere. but as we know, there is a first mover disadvantage here. other parts of the world will innovate far more quickly. they will learn from our mistakes. they will adapt their technology and then they will be the ones that own the future. we cannot allow that mistake to be repeated again and again and again. the car industry is too important. we need trust in it and we need it to be sustainable, and we've got to get ahead of the curve and what i've heard today doesn't indicate that we're anywhere near being in that position. (applause)
mr president, this has been an awful situation. volkswagen have deliberately broken the law and deliberately misled both regulators and customers. it obviously was wrong to do so. it should rightly face appropriate and proportionate penalties. but by allowing these emission loopholes to be ruthlessly exploited by volkswagen, millions of british consumers have been betrayed and misled. but what concerns me as well is that it has been reported that top eu officials were aware of the vw emissions scandal two years before it broke. why weren’t things raised then, done then, brought here? i think that question needs to be answered. my predecessor, roger helmer, who is somewhat of an expert in this issue, always warned that this attack on car owners, the push towards diesel, even though diesels give out only marginally more co2 emissions than petrol, and this drive was dangerous, and of course it has led to this situation. vw was trying to follow regulatory pressure by moving to diesel power but found that it was unable to meet these emission targets and did the wrong thing. but the eu knew about it, it should have talked about it, and that is a scandal as well.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, for far too long we have not debated the issue of fire safety of buildings, so it is high time we did so. that was my rationale behind proposing to have this debate on fire safety. twenty years ago i worked in social housing. our ethos was simple: social housing provides homes for the most vulnerable so it needs to be of the best quality. clearly, over the years, this message has been diluted, especially in the uk. had it not, we would not have had the tragedies, such as grenfell tower in june. my heartfelt condolences to the families of those affected. the issue of fire safety should always be at the forefront of our minds. it should not take losing 80 people in an inferno that could have been prevented. but it is not just about what has happened, but also about what could happen in the future. across the eu there are too many buildings – hospitals, student accommodation and office buildings – that are vulnerable, and a key lesson from grenfell is that it is not always the fire, but also the toxic fumes that kill people. eu regulations already require that construction work is done to limit the spreading of smoke and fire, but what we need to do is ensure there are fire sprinklers in all buildings, residential and commercial. these rules also need to be enforced and expanded to inform consumers about the toxicity of materials through harmonised labelling. we also need to secure better fire testing methods for façades that reflect the reality. it concerns me that shortly after grenfell, instead of trying to strengthen these regulations, the uk government supported the ‘red tape initiative’ that classified it as an ‘expensive and burdensome’ ‘red tape folly’ that should be abandoned after brexit. i think it is far too easy to dismiss regulation as red tape, but these regulations save lives and should be strengthened. finally, this initiative is supported by firefighters across the eu who put their lives at risk, but very rarely get the kind of hearing they deserve. i sincerely hope that this house will continue to put this high on the agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the importance of fire safety in buildings was all too tragically highlighted by the horrific events at grenfell tower in my home city of london. following the grief, the anger and, sadly, the shameful attempts by some british opposition politicians to exploit the tragedy to score cheap political points, our priority should now be to continue to help the survivors, to help rebuild their lives. my hope is that the full public inquiry that the british prime minister has rightly ordered will reveal: why did it happen, what can we learn, how do we prevent a repeat of this terrible tragedy? when meps met firefighters from across the eu last week, they told us that this tragedy could easily have occurred in any of their cities. a british firefighter told me that in the uk, an apartment in a high-rise building with the door shut should be able to contain a fire for 40 minutes to allow time for evacuation and to put out the fire. but at grenfell, the initial reports suggest that the door to a flat may have been open and that the fire escaped through the window and spread by the flammable cladding in a matter of minutes. these are, of course, just initial reports and have yet to be verified. a belgian firefighter explained that plastics containing petroleum release oils and toxic smoke, making their job more dangerous and suffocating victims. they shared concerns over single staircases in some high-rise buildings, which means that those fleeing fires may block emergency services entering the building. they told me that they are now assessing which buildings in their cities contain similar dangerous cladding. so many issues were exposed by this tragedy that i hope that the commission’s exchange or proposed exchange will address. but whichever city or country you are from, we need to make sure that at best, such a tragedy does not occur again and at worst, emergency services are able to put out the fires and evacuate residents safely. we owe this to all our citizens and the emergency services that keep us safe. and if you will allow me, as a londoner born and bred, i am proud when i hear stories of individuals and communities from across london and the uk who came together to support those who had suffered the greatest of losses. let me end by expressing my deepest sympathies for the victims and their loved ones.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, along with my colleagues i also want to express my condolences to all those affected by the grenfell fire because i am also elected from the region of london, as is my colleague syed kamall. we still do not know the final death toll from that fire, but we do know that the tragedy itself was a result of a number of factors about regulation, or the lack of effective implementation of regulation, about building design, and about smoke and toxicity. cyanide gas was certainly related to some of the deaths, but also attitudes to social housing tenants. it was certainly felt by many in the community to have been a part of the tragedy that unfolded – not being listened to, procurement priorities, not prioritising safety – and indeed compounded by the poor disaster response. so we do need to learn from each other. we do need an effective fire prevention strategy at european level. we need to upgrade our regulation so that it is fit for purpose wherever you may be living in the european union, and we also need to listen to the experience of those affected by fire to actually input too from their experience in prevention.
mr president, the grenfell tower disaster saw 18 known people dead, with dozens more injured in a blaze of which fire-fighters had never seen the like before. i want to put on record our gratitude in this house towards our emergency services staff who day-in, day-out, put their lives at risk to save others across our member states. we in this house cannot allow a disaster like grenfell to happen again. the evidence and enquiry into grenfell had ramifications across the eu and the british government, while still a member of the european union, has a responsibility to work with its european partners and share information to prevent another tragedy like this from happening. the european commission are to be commended for having the foresight before the grenfell tower tragedy to undertake a study on the need to assess the smoke toxicity of construction products. as a standing rapporteur of this house on construction products, i want to emphasise that smoke toxicity from burning construction products and their testing is an important subject, particularly concerning the health and safety of our emergency services personnel, as well as the victims of fires. in the case of grenfell, as others have acknowledged, it is generally accepted that the material and structure of the facade enabled the fire to spread as it did. my understanding is that there are currently two facade tests, a large one and a small one, with member states choosing which one. in the uk, it is the large scale that it is chosen. in the light of the differences across member states in facade testing, will the commission adopt a harmonised european method to assess the fire performance of facades, which would guarantee a sufficient level of fire safety to eu citizens? given the complexity and the nature of the question of fire safety, it is important that national authorities communicate and exchange best practice and it is brilliant today that we have seen action about the platform that has been announced by the commission. but as currently all member states regulate fire safety individually, one simple way forward where action could make a difference, is if member states have a common approach towards the collection and sharing of data.
mr president, as a london mep, i must also speak about the grenfell tower tragedy in which at least 80 people died horrifically. now the official inquiry must establish exactly what happened, how and why. when grenfell tower was built, the original cladding material was inert. fire could not pass through or behind. since then, specification regulation has passed from national governments to the european union. eu regulations required a 20% reduction in energy consumption in buildings such as grenfell under the 2020 energy policy. to achieve this, the local authority may have used combustible material in the cladding when the building was refurbished last year. the questions for the inquiry to answer are: firstly, exactly what regulations were applicable; secondly, were they strictly adhered to; and thirdly, if they were, then how can they be changed quickly in order to prevent any similar future tragedies in the uk or indeed europe.
mr president, whilst it is very welcome that parliament is having the debate this afternoon, i personally wish it did not have to happen in the wake of the terrible grenfell tower tragedy. i have been raising the need for a greater focus on fire safety in the eu for many years, calling for greater horizontal thinking in the legislative process and i now hope that the issue will become a priority for member states and for members right across the eu. but keeping this tragic event in mind, we must think what sensible steps member states and the commission can take. it is the responsibility of member states to ensure fire safety regulations and standards are applied by industry and enforced by public authorities. prevention must be the priority going forward, which can only happen through the vigorous enforcement of existing rules relating to the design, construction and the maintenance of buildings. i hope that member states and the commission are able to work with industry and the necessary organisations and representatives to find a solution that makes the grenfell tragedy the last.
mr president, the shocking pictures of the grenfell tower blaze must serve as a wake-up call to all law makers, and we must work towards a common fire safety strategy. i recently met with colleagues from the university of central lancashire in my constituency, and they pointed out that while fire toxicity in trains, planes and ships is regulated, there is a real lack of regulation in the construction sector. renovation works at grenfell were inspected 16 times by the local authority, showing current rules simply aren’t fit for purpose. so i urge the commission to do two things: first, to meet with the scientists and experts as part of the dg grow study, and secondly to incorporate an assessment of the fire toxicity of construction products into the existing regulation. this both benefits and protects consumers because we need a fire strategy that puts people first and it is shameful that it has taken a tragedy like grenfell to put fire safety back on the agenda.
mr president, what happened at grenfell is a terrible tragedy and i agree with all the speakers that have said that better regulation must be implemented, but who is going to monitor this? i can say that i am one of a very few, if not the only local councillor, to have spoken in this debate, and i deal week-in, week-out, with local government repairs and maintenance. i know from experience that the current regime of contracting out and tendering out maintenance and repairs of council properties, like the grenfell tower, is an absolute disaster. they deal on the profit motive instead of human welfare, and until we bring council maintenance and repairs back in-house, you can say everything you like about repairs and everything you like about maintenance, but unless it is brought under complete democratic control and accountability then all the goodwill will be for nothing.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – mr president, i was rapporteur for this transport and tourism committee opinion on the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and i heard from the european disability forum that their number one priority was improved access of transport services for their members, especially in terms of the built environment. there are currently 80 million people with reduced mobility in the eu for whom any regular journey by bus or underground or rail can be a daily nightmare. the transport committee adopted my report, which included mandatory improvements to the built environment, but i was disappointed when the internal market committee, the lead committee, did not adopt any of those ideas so, under rule 54, plenary is now being asked to vote on the amendments that the internal market committee ruled out. the vote is tomorrow. these provisions ensure barrier—free journeys for everyone and would fundamentally improve the lives of disabled people. so please, fellow members, vote for the transport committee and the green amendments tomorrow. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this is a very important file and will open up many more goods and services to ensure that everyone can benefit from them. accessibility is key to that: making everyday products and services that many of us take for granted easier to use for people with different needs, but a balance has to be achieved to make sure that everyone can adapt in a reasonable timeframe and without undue cost. but i believe we have got a very good balance and we will support mr løkkegaard’s report. it is also worth remembering that this act will help more than 150 million elderly people in europe, making their lives easier. allowing more independent living for longer is critical as our population continues to age. so i very much welcome this report and the real and tangible improvements that it will make to everyday lives. we debated this at length in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. when people say that they want to be more ambitious, i struggle to understand what they mean. a proposal has to be realistic. otherwise it is not ambitious at all, just virtue seeking. this is a realistic proposal and it will advance accessibility for disabled people. let’s get behind it.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the european statistical programme sounds like a dry and very barren landscape to sow rhetorical seeds. we are told the availability of reliable, comprehensive european statistics is an important public good. who could object? but the commission in its explanation of the purpose behind the statistical programme refers to these statistics as ‘indispensable’ if europe is to be understood by the general public. well, that’s their true purpose. what is it? propaganda, ladies and gentlemen, propaganda. it was after all, the eu that changed the definition of the gross national income to include the black economy on drugs and prostitution and, by doing so, increased member state contributions to the eu based on the size of their economy. and, by sleight of hand, it is the eu that averages statistics telling us that the eu rates of economic growth are up and unemployment down, disguising from the public that youth unemployment in southern europe is still between 40% and 50%. taxpayers should not be asked to fund the collation of eu propaganda. this is a waste of taxpayers’ money. we should stop using propaganda to put forward statistics are not true.
blue-card question. – the soviet union used to have some of the finest statistics the world has ever known. as a matter of fact, i took the trouble once or twice to listen to some of the speeches of some of the soviet union’s leaders, some of which went on for several hours. if you were very tired at night, it was a very good way to get to sleep. they used to dish out statistics about how tractor production figures were up, comrades. well, this sounds a bit like that. this gentleman here was saying that we want more statistics. well, good grief, you couldn’t get more statistics than the soviet union turned out, but they were all lies. you can do anything with statistics. who was it who said ‘lies, damned lies and statistics’? well, would you not agree with me that you can tell any lie with statistics? the soviet union was marvellous at that and this place becomes more like the soviet union every day, especially after what herr juncker said this morning.
blue-card question. – mr president, would you not agree with me that governments who are generally massively incompetent are not the best people. bureaucrats who have no experience of business or entrepreneurial affairs have no business involving themselves in capital markets in the stock exchange or anything like that. surely, capitalism is the best way to make sure young businesses grow. and, quite frankly, i have been in business for 30 years and i have always found that if there’s a good plan and there’s a good project then somebody wants to put money into it. so why should we be wasting taxpayers’ money on something that the stock market and financial markets should be dealing with. this is a lot of nonsense, and a waste of taxpayers’ money.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask this question of you. i think that this capital is going to be given to some companies in ‘wherever’. i mean i have never heard of any in britain. i don’t know if you have in france. but surely giving those companies money, to the detriment of other companies which have actually raised the money themselves and got off their bottoms and done it, why would that be a good thing? surely, those people will be able to crush those other companies that have fairly tried to raise money on the independent markets. surely this sort of communism or socialism is very, very bad and the reason why the european union is going bust and why greece is in a very bad position and why for many years – and you, i know, i agree with me on this – socialism in france has destroyed the french entrepreneurial spirit. i want to see france rise. i don’t want to see france be destroyed. would you agree with me, sir?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first it was harvey, the wettest hurricane ever recorded that flooded houston in hours, then irma, with record-breaking winds of 185mph. yet as the eye of the storm moved through the caribbean and florida, politicians, the media and others closed their eyes in order to protect their interests. their priority: maintaining the status quo of turbo-capitalism, a system that requires perpetual growth and, in varying degrees, climate change denial. indeed, when my colleague, caroline lucas mp made the link between hurricane irma and climate change to uk minister alan duncan, he said she lacked humanity. when we learned that mr duncan had previously pocketed thousands of pounds working for an oil company, it all of a sudden became clear why he had made such an absurd snipe. after all, caroline lucas was simply respecting the science that a warmer world with warmer oceans leads to greater evaporation, which in turn fuels more destructive storms. that’s no more than others have done from gaston brown, leader of the devastated antigua and barbuda, through to president macron of france and pope francis. i say it is politicians, who defend the interests of fossil fuel industries, who lack humanity. equally inhumane is the fact that 5 trillion dollars is thrown at the fossil fuel industry each year in subsidies; that’s 6.5% of global gdp supporting the dirty economy of the past when we should be investing it in the clean, green economy of the future. the humane thing to do is to act in the interests of those whose lives are now being torn apart by climate breakdown, especially those living in low-lying territories and in the path of storms; as well as millions of others across the globe, especially those from the poorest communities. this demands a new ethics politics and a new economic model.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, look at a map, any of you. much of the north sea is british, and much of the rest is norwegian. for the european union to have a plan past 2019 is sheer effrontery. worse, having stolen commercial fisheries, they are now trying to steal recreational fisheries by adding them to the plan too. it is entirely straightforward and simple: we reject this plan. brexit must mean that this never happens. instead, there must be a united kingdom fisheries plan. this should encourage proper conservation and allow fish stocks to grow. keep out all foreign boats, make fishing flags of convenience impossible, be properly policed by the royal navy: this is a real north sea plan, and we hope for the sake of british fishermen that david davis is not stupid enough to be taken in or gulled by yours. ruth davidson in scotland is not backing brexit, so that is not going to help our fisheries, and neither is nicola sturgeon’s snp, who want to give our fisheries away to the european union. that is unacceptable to scottish fisheries and the reason why alex salmond lost his position, as did various other scottish nationalists, and the rest of them will too.
blue-card question. – i would just like to ask the member what he proposes to do on behalf of the rest of the european fleet when the united kingdom takes back control of its exclusive maritime economic zone stretching up to 200 miles from the british coast, as it is entitled to under international law.
mr president, representing the fishing nation of scotland i believe that fisheries management should lie in the hands of the fishing nations themselves, cooperating necessarily with each other on a regional basis, such as around the north sea. this belief holds true whether within the eu or outwith. scotland should have the power to work with its neighbours to manage its fisheries within the principles set out in international law. the old cfp was an over-centralised disaster. the reformed policy at least provides a foundation for a more regional system of management. indeed, the commission states that member states having direct management interest may submit joint recommendations for fisheries management in the north sea. this is not before time. while supporting the basic principle of multiannual planning, and in particular the devolved nature of decision-making, i do have concerns about the inclusion of recreational fisheries by this parliament. that goes in the opposite direction, and i cannot support such an idea. surely the fishing nations of the north sea can decide for themselves whether that is a problem and, if so, how to deal with it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you, ian, for taking my question. i always have great respect for you and know a fair bit about fish with being on the committee on fisheries. i just want to ask you: do you now recognise that we are leaving – and scotland is leaving – the european union and that fishing will be managed by britain and not by the european union, and that, because of all that we have been telling you forever, that we need to get out of the european union to protect scottish fish and protect scottish fishermen and their fleets, that now in the north-east of scotland, people are building boats, training young lads to go fishing and there is now a boom in this thing. will you now agree that you were wrong in the snp, and that ukip was right, sir?
blue-card answer. – many times in this place i have said on the record that the cfp has been a disaster for scotland, and many times i have said in this place on the record that one of the principal reasons for that has been the failure of the uk government – successive uk governments – to do anything useful for scotland’s fishing communities in eu negotiations. i do not trust the uk government in eu negotiations. i do not trust a uk government to sensibly and effectively manage scotland’s fisheries itself either. that’s why i said earlier that scotland should have the power: scotland, a fishing nation, should have the power to manage its fisheries along with its neighbours around the north sea and in the other areas where we have an active interest.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, earlier this month world university rankings placed oxford and cambridge as the top two universities in the world. that league table made clear that britain is europe’s higher education superpower. imperial college was also in the global top 10, but the only other european institution there was based in zurich, outside the eu. indeed, there was no non-british eu university within the top 20. this is an indication that one of the great challenges for the future of erasmus+ will be to continue to secure access to uk universities. without them, the programme will be greatly denuded. i implore the eu to be sensible in accepting the british offer of continued friendship and cooperation and not to allow the brexit process to turn into a means of trying to punish the british people for their democratic decision. there is willingness in britain to continue to facilitate the flow of outstanding eu students to our great universities. it would be the height of folly to put that in jeopardy through the adoption of a hostile posture on brexit.
mr president, the erasmus+ programme allows students, teachers and young people to study, work, volunteer, teach and train throughout europe. their experiences and the skills they learn help them develop personally, and will ultimately bring added value to the local economy. i am thinking of the many successful projects in my own constituency, including those led by ballybeen and kilcooley women’s centres. these include developing and delivering mentoring training programmes, supporting older people, developing innovative ict training, developing training to raise awareness of domestic abuse among older victims and the dream programme, which aims to reinforce integration of migrants into local communities. in brussels, in london and in belfast, we should be working to forge a new and positive relationship with the european union. these negotiations should not preclude programmes such as this, where it is cost—effective to do so. instead, brexit should be reviewed as an opportunity to revive and renew ties; to allow those in the education, youth or sports sectors to benefit from cross—border exchange projects as part of a new and special relationship. whether this be in the form of participation in joint programmes or through new initiatives will ultimately be a matter for talks between the uk government and brussels. but the key is a willingness on all sides to negotiate constructively.
mr president, erasmus is one of the union’s greatest success stories, not just in terms of employability and academic development, but also because it has helped to create a generation of proud, open-minded and resilient europeans, including young british people. we must build on this success to widen access and ensure that more young people can benefit from this opportunity, in particular those in vocational training, vulnerable young people, people outside of formal education, migrants and people with disabilities. in fact, the very kind of marginalised young people that i was working with before i came into politics. for this to be successful, we need political will and money. i therefore support the erasmusx10 campaign to increase the programme budget 10 times in the next financial period. i also want to reiterate that the uk must maintain its access to the programme, and i call for this to be a priority in the brexit negotiations. british youth voted overwhelmingly to remain in the eu, and it is their future that is hugely at risk with the current negotiations.
mr president, thank you very much for giving me the time. no speaker seems to have touched on the fact that switzerland has been suspended from the erasmus programme. it is an interesting question – has this really made any difference to switzerland, the swiss people, or even to swiss universities? it would seem not, because the top university in switzerland rates higher than any university in the eu, outside of the uk. my colleague, patrick o’flynn, made a very important point which the colleagues were supremely disinterested in, which is that eu universities outside the uk simply do not rate very highly in world terms. uk universities, oddly enough, do. but i am not making a patriotic point. the point i am making for the colleagues to consider, particularly for the commissioner, is that, as we have heard, the erasmus programme primarily has a political motivation. it would be better for the young people of europe if you drop some of this political motivation and concentrated on an educational function.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, first of all, i want to say to ms forenza that of course we cannot wait for her report on gender and trade. i am really looking forward to it. i am going to focus on just one aspect of the eu-chile trade arrangements. here i have just part of the existing eu-chile trade agreement. this runs over 1 400 pages of densely written text. in all that text there is no clause – none – that requires the so-called free movement of people. it is also highly unlikely that the modernised chile trade agreement which we are discussing now will have a free movement of people clause. further, the european union has over 100 trade agreements. i make it 141, actually. only two of those agreements – the efta and the eea agreements – have a requirement for free movement of people. nevertheless, in the context of brexit, so much of the media tells us that free movement is a precondition for any country having a free trade agreement with the eu, and this is simply untrue. fake news is something that the eu crusades against. free movement: the manipulation and denial of the facts concerning free movement of people in eu trade agreements, against the clear evidence, is fake news personified. perhaps the commissioner will join me in correcting this fundamental misunderstanding.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs. there are some excellent points in this report, such as the key role of non—formal and informal learning, quality frameworks for apprenticeships and internships, and the inclusion of social partners and civil society. upgrading education and training is a crucial issue in my constituency in wales, as it is across the eu. and given the recognition that the labour market is dynamic and future skills needs have to be considered, we believe the report could be strengthened by clear reference to the huge innovation and employment potential of renewable energy sources and green technologies and the skills required for those. there’s also a need for a reference to upskilling in relation to migrants, consistent with the action plan on the integration of third—country nationals. so i would ask colleagues to support the amendments that we have put forward.
madam president, we need to prepare learners of all ages and from all backgrounds, including migrants and refugees, for a fast—changing, complex and hyper—connected world, and for jobs and competences that do not even exist yet. that’s why it is key to ensure that learners are equipped with transferable skills such as media literacy, critical and creative thinking and entrepreneurship. we also want to equip learners with the necessary skills for a more open, sustainable and inclusive society. we therefore need to invest in their social skills, in particular intercultural skills. on top of guaranteeing a minimum level of literacy, numeracy and digital skills for all, there are skills we must invest in for learners to become not only fit for the labour market, but true problem—solvers and responsible and active citizens. in this context, it is key that proper recognition is given to the role of adult learning, informal and non—formal learning.
author. – madam president, sadly in recent months we have seen a serious deterioration in human rights in the south—east asia region, reflected by the fact that we have three urgencies on these countries in this session. cambodia sadly is no exception. given cambodia’s tragic recent past, it is particularly concerning to see fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression all under attack in that country. i urge the cambodians to release political prisoners, to ensure that political parties – and the opposition in particular – have space to campaign and operate in advance of the 2018 elections in that country, in the hope that we can have fair and free elections in cambodia. we should remind cambodia that we are a significant partner of theirs. we are giving them eur 400 million between 2014 and 2020. we give them trade preferences. we do that because we are a community of values who wish to promote values in that country, and i hope they will respect that.
author. – mr president, as edmund burke said, all tyranny needs to get a foothold is for people of good conscience to remain silent. on myanmar, some of us had wished for a still stronger resolution. others felt that we should wait another month. the same procrastination allowed the genocide in rwanda and srebrenica. they also said that we should not jeopardise our on-going trade talks with myanmar. how can we have trade, when the un calls this a textbook example of ethnic cleansing? trade cannot and should never thrive alongside tyranny. cruelty is no culture for commerce. this resolution – not the first on myanmar – represents a unified and determined response from parliament. however, my fear is that, unless we all seriously consider sanctions and suspension of trade talks, there will no longer be any rohingyas left.
mr president, we all share the sense of horror at what is happening to the largely muslim rohingyas in myanmar. i want to thank all those constituents and citizens who have contacted us to raise their concern. the international community cannot sit by while a nobel peace prize laureate oversees what the un has called ‘textbook ethnic cleansing’. these crimes must stop. we also know that words are not enough, and mass atrocities like this go on despite diplomatic statements and resolutions. the eu needs a robust, joined-up strategy for dealing with situations like this around the world, to apply real pressure to stop the violence and to work together with international partners and grassroots anti-racist organisations to bring perpetrators to justice.
mr president, i also speak in my capacity as chair of the delegation for south asia, which covers bangladesh as one of our countries and where in the past we visited the rohingya camps down at cox’s bazar. so we know this is something which has been going on for a very long time and where the european union has been a key funder in terms of supporting the rohingya people in bangladesh – the refugees there. we gather that the eu has currently put in eu 3 million from echo funding in light of the current situation. we would ask how that is actually being spent, given that it is also, apparently, covering myanmar. and we know, as we have just heard, that there is no access for the un and ingos in north rakhine state, which is something we need to push to reinstate. we need a unhcr—led body down in bangladesh, but we also need a strong response from the european union and all its governments and active diplomacy in the region, not least with the two big powers, because this is something that is ongoing. people need to be able to return home in dignity with their rights restored. this is something which is not just about aung san suu kyi; it is about the generals and their military power too. don’t let them off the hook.
mr president, these atrocities against the rohingya community have to stop. i welcome the resolution today. aung san suu kyi’s disgraceful reaction is prompted by the fear that speaking out in support of the rohingyas will trigger an angry reaction from the military. and yet looking away while a genocide is taking place is shameful. avoiding confrontation at the un general assembly is not the reaction of a sakharov prize laureate or any democratic leader. we must push the myanmar government to allow international aid to those that need it. we also need to ratchet up pressure on china, which holds influence over the military in myanmar. in the words of archbishop desmond tutu: ‘a country that is not at peace with itself, that fails to acknowledge and protect the dignity and worth of all its people, is not a free country’. we look to the high representative madam federica mogherini to end the suffering for the rohingyas; please, madam, for the rohingyas and please, for humanity.
mr president, as all the votes seem to be close and as you seem to be checking every single one, why don’t we just do them all electronically directly? it would be quicker.
mr president, i would just simply point to what you were saying, that there was no efdd member present. there is an efdd member present: it is myself. may i presume just to point that out to you before you make a ruling?
mr president, i am present. there is a distinction between present and speaking. so i wasn’t given the speaking time but i was actually present; there was somebody present. i would just simply draw attention to this before a final ruling is made. i think that it is perfectly correct to do so and it is designed to be helpful to the chair.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, fires happen in particular places. countries do not catch fire, nor even do regions. it is houses that catch fire, trees catch fire, woods catch fire, villages, even whole communities can get caught in fires, but it is all essentially local. the best approach to help put fires out and help cope with the consequences of fires is to do it locally. victims of fires need people on the spot, and they and we need resources applied in exactly the right way at the right time and in the right place, that is to say locally. therefore, it follows that fires are the ultimate example in which to apply subsidiarity. of course, neighbours must help out, and of course, all donations are welcome and all decent people will indeed help. but this is yet another and regrettable example of the eu commission thinking that big is best. this is incorrect. it is local that is best – and more than that, micro is magic. we can help people best – individuals, communities and people caught in the middle – locally. what we do not need is the slow-moving, kafkaesque eu bureaucracy which has proven itself over and over again to be dysfunctional and unhelpful. to depart for my prepared text: there was a fire earlier today in the hemicycle – a fire of democracy. it is not often that i agree with a member of gue/ngl, but the gentleman was right. it was profoundly undemocratic for a member of the commission – the executive – to intervene directly in a parliamentary debate. this was fire of democracy, and colleagues should consider that a parliament should not accept intervention in this way, from a member of the executive. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – as donald tusk, the president of the council, pointed out in a prepared statement the day after the brexit referendum, all uk citizens and all the citizens of other countries represented by members of the efdd group are fully bound by all the laws, rules, regulations and directives of the european union. we therefore have a moral obligation to represent our constituents and to defend our constituents from all too many examples of bad decisions and bad decision-making by a number of commissioners, many of whom are frankly just not up to the job.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i propose that the vote on the motion for a resolution on the state of play of negotiations with the uk be taken off the agenda. during negotiations the european parliament does not – and should not – play any formal role. this is just grandstanding obstruction offering headlines for guy verhofstadt. the real conservatives in here understand free market principles. the groups opposite do not. instead, i suggest that you go back to your countries and request that your heads of state request that michel barnier negotiate a free trade deal with the uk. that is in your interests because, if not, your economies will suffer. that is a more constructive use of time. otherwise we are just going to walk away, because we have 40 free trade agreements that we can sign up to the day we walk out of here. so, colleagues, do the right thing.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it seems you have jumped the gun before i spoke. the eyes of the world are on the european union here. to delay this until wednesday would send a clear message and embarrass a certain member state. if we go ahead and have this debate, certainly tomorrow at the very earliest, that is a reasonable request. the eyes of the world are looking to the european union and the european parliament to speak on this issue. i feel that the debate should take place on tuesday.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, to see those police actions, to see 761 injuries, to see ballot boxes being seized – that is alien to everything that we cherish if we claim to uphold democracy. these matters are questions of rule of law, they are questions of self-determination and they are also questions of the actions of the police. that is why our proposal is to include all of those elements that have been mentioned on both sides. the important point here is not just the title of the debate, but that this does not end up being something that is brushed under the carpet. what is happening in catalonia is something which could become an incredibly serious and major diplomatic issue in months and years to come and this is something which needs to be got right. we cannot brush this under the carpet. one thing that i would say is that we must not forget that is important, within our motion, that we add a resolution as part of the debate. it is not just about having the debate, it is about winding it up with a resolution so that we are actually saying something.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, you can’t save your money and spend it, you can’t have you cake and eat it, and you can’t pretend to be a nation when you are not. the eu tries to do all three all the time. this report illustrates that perfectly. this is an international convention. the word ‘international’ means between nations. the european union, despite what it likes to think, is not a nation. it follows that it cannot be – and should not be – a party to such international agreements, this one and many others. if david davis has even half a brain, this is an important negotiating card, an ace in the pack, but any card is only as good as how you play it. happily, we have the perfect opportunity to play it and play it repeatedly. we, the united kingdom, are permanent members of the united nations security council. we must not give this up. on the contrary, we must start to make better use of it. this means using it to oppose, block and even veto behaviour on international treaties, conventions and agreements which are against our interest. there is a clear uk message here for the european union: do you think you hold all the cards? you don’t. our hand is potentially a lot better than you understand. what the uk has to do, however, is to understand itself how good our hand is and then be prepared to use it. if the british government is worth anything at all, those who play hardball with us should – and, i hope, will – find that we can play hardball with them.
mr president, this is about the eu approving an international convention. the object is scarcely the point. do we want to conserve tuna? of course we do! we want the largest possible breeding stock to deliver the greatest numbers. that is common sense. whether this agreement will achieve that is debatable at the very best. what is clear is that international conventions are for nations – i repeat – nations to sign. the clue is in the name: nations! over the weekend we witnessed bloody scenes as spanish police terrorised the people of catalonia to stop them expressing their views – the very negation of everything my group stands for. it is also in our name: freedom and direct democracy! that is our group. madrid justifies its behaviour on the grounds that spanish law is being broken. putting aside the question as to whether a government should beat up its people in that way, even if they are breaking the law, we are entitled to expect the government that does this to be a stickler for the letter of the law. an international convention is a convention between nations. that means the parties to it should be nations. the eu is not a nation or a state and should therefore not be a party to international agreements – international, may i say. if the spanish government are sticklers for the legal protocol, they should share our view. they do not, of course, because their view of the law is entirely contentious and self-interested. if they were consistent and decent, they would not try to deny the long-standing international agreement of the treaty of utrecht, some hundreds of years old. they would not constantly try to bully gibraltar. to clarify, we – the uk – put our money on democracy where our mouths are. we staged a referendum on scottish independence, at taxpayers’ expense may i add, and the vote was won for the union. the spanish might have done much better to behave as the british did. we oppose this convention, as ultra vires.
blue-card question. – i would assure the honourable gentleman it is not, but i would like to point out that what we did in the united kingdom – and it was a brave and sensible thing to do, and the right thing to do – was that we had a debate on scottish independence. i led one side of it – or part of one side of it – and other people led the other. that seemed to be a better way of solving these matters than the way the spanish government is doing it now. i am also very pleased to see that the european union has kept out of this. i talked to jean-claude juncker and he did not want to become involved. i think that is good. but do you not think that my method of doing this or our method ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i believe in equality of opportunity, i oppose any gender-based discrimination. the best candidate should be chosen at the same pay – irrespective of gender, religion, sexuality, ethnicity or pretty much anything else. in fact where the private sector is concerned, whenever they choose the wrong person for a job by discriminating, they effectively discriminate against themselves because it hits their own effectiveness, and consequently hits their profits. but where i diverge from this report is i do not consider equality of outcome to be an appropriate measure in and of itself of non-discrimination, because outcomes are based on a host of other factors. not least that more men or more women might be more interested in a particular job or have different life and career goals, and in my view society should not measure that – it is none of the state’s business how we choose to approach work – but what we should do is stand against illegal and unfair discrimination.
madam president, i have listened with great interest to what the lady said, i have looked at the report and i am looking forward to reading it more. i myself am a rampant feminist: my grandmother was a suffragette. i do not agree with everything the report says, may i say, but i hope she has looked into the bbc – the british broadcasting corporation – an organisation which consistently trumpets its left-wing credentials and, dare i say, progressive, whatever that might mean, and in spite of that, the salary differentials in the bbc between ladies and gentlemen are absolutely blatant. i encourage you to look into them. they are letting down the cause of meritocracy and, dare i say it (it is not a word i generally use), egalitarianism. so i do hope you will look into the bbc. what is going on there is something worth looking at – a lot of hypocrisy. i hope you will do that.
madam president, i congratulate my colleagues, and particularly anna hedh, on this report on women’s economic empowerment. it is a great example of the progressive consensus-based policy-making that happens in this house, which makes it such an important institution in the world today. the report highlights many important actions that are required in order to empower women: significantly, education, overcoming discrimination in the workplace and fighting against violence against women. i would specifically like to highlight the enormous potential of social enterprises and cooperatives to provide opportunities to those women who are most vulnerable and marginalised in our society, and those who suffer intersectional discrimination and social exclusion, such as refugees, asylum seekers, disabled women, lgbti women, roma women and women in rural areas.
madam president, in my community of lancashire there are women earning up to 27% less than men for the same work. in fact, the national centre for social research named two communities in my constituency in the 10 worst local economies in the uk to be women. the eu and member states acknowledge the problem, but we are crippled by slow progress. one analysis this year estimates that, at the current pace, the uk pay gap will not be eradicated until 2069 – that will be 99 years after the introduction of the equal pay act. this is a holistic problem that touches education, affordable childcare, support for carers and boardroom gender equality. at its heart, it is a problem of basic dignity at work for women everywhere. please let’s not let progress stall. my constituents cannot afford to wait until 2069.
madam president, i do not of course disagree with the importance of civil society. i quote from the report and i support the principle of ‘a genuinely independent pluralistic and vibrant civil society’. where civil society is shrinking in developing countries, then of course we need that to be reversed. where i think i perhaps differ from the rapporteur is in two senses. firstly, i think there is a hint of top—down action here: a supranational institution working together with national governments, to my mind, is something that is less valuable than organisations developing organically from the ground up within communities with the support of ngos. secondly, the overall tone of this report seems to be pushing in a direction of more and more harmonisation. again, i think that is perhaps to an extent contrary to the aims that it is setting out to achieve.
madam president, i am very glad to see this report come before parliament at this time because when we look around the world we see civil societies face ever-increasing attacks from governments around the world in every region, including here in europe. the european union is a union of values and peoples, and it needs to rise to this challenge by investing seriously in the promotion of democracy, human rights and the rule of law around the world. we talk a lot about tackling the root causes of the crises we face – the root causes of migration, radicalisation and instability – but supporting democratic civil society groups, ngos and human rights defenders around the world is a key foreign policy priority for the eu, and it is really important that we invest in these vital grassroots groups. it is vital for all our futures.
madam president, this 89-paragraph report has got some wonderful aims. we all want to fight against cybercrime, as it becomes proportionately more and more important every single year, and we all want to make sure that the internet is safe for us all to use and enjoy. there are a number of positives that i do see such as – and a colleague has already mentioned this – in terms of open-source software. we are concerned about hacking and about fighting against that. those borders are not just national; nor are they just european, but they are global. global cooperation is needed. but one thing does worry me, which is that we must always balance security with freedom of expression and the right to privacy. i see in the report itself precious little that would really remind us of the existence of that balance or that would indeed fully take it into account. as is often said, if a citizen desires privacy, they may have something to hide. only in the same context, i suppose, as people who have curtains in their houses.
madam president, this is an important and timely report on how our society deals with new emerging issues of safety and security online. these issues impact our private and public lives, as well as the way we conduct our democratic politics. we must balance the need for safety online with privacy, and we must guarantee freedom of expression and association, while combating incitement to violence and radicalisation. it is also crucial that we protect our democratic institutions and elections from being hijacked, such as during the uk referendum or, recently, in the us elections. we must legislate to prevent data mining companies like cambridge analytica using secret money to harvest private data and use it to disseminate disinformation, as reported by the investigative journalist carole cadwalladr. these are new challenges, and only a large global actor like the eu can take action to tackle them.
madam president, my congratulations to the rapporteur for his report on eu-asean relations. i had the honour to represent this house at the asean interparliamentary assembly in manila, a fortnight back. i very much concur with what mr bütikofer has said in relation to having dialogue with young people and with the asean parliamentarians. it is so important that we actually have dialogue with the asean parliamentarians, as opposed to just having individual bilateral relationships with member states of asean. i raised the issues that this parliament has raised, condemning the atrocities committed in myanmar against the rohingya minority. i was the only one, apart from the indonesian head of delegation, to do so. afterwards, delegates from many other countries came up and said they really did support this and that we had to do more to work together to stop these atrocities. through you, madam president, i would like to extend an invitation to the asean parliamentarians if we can.
madam president, thank you for allowing me to address this house on the protection of consumers within the digital single market. the commission is currently consulting on this area, and i very much hope that one of the outcomes will be the strengthening of those aspects of the consumer rights directive on complete price information. this directive seems to have been broadly effective in ensuring that consumers can make purchasing decisions with full information and without hidden charges. there are still, however, many areas where digital trading pushes the boundaries of good practice. for example, in sports and music ticketing – where demand is especially price-inelastic – leading aftermarket sites frequently add outrageous service and delivery charges well after the point where the buyer is emotionally committed to the purchase. meanwhile, the technology applies pressure to buyers who are prepared to pay whatever it takes to see their favourite performer, band or football match. i hope we will see the commission addressing this issue in the near future.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – (inaudible) that includes the part where the consent of the people of ireland – both north and south – would be required to alter the constitutional position of the north. it includes the agreed areas of cooperation – environment, agriculture, tourism, health, transport and education – plus it allows for more. it includes a bill of rights – rights resisted by the dup – and also, importantly, it includes conformity with eu law. the good friday agreement in all its parts includes, as this resolution recognises, being in the single market and the customs union. britain should remain in the single market and the customs union, but if it does not, then the north of ireland must. there are different ways that this could be done: ‘in some form’ could mean the north of ireland staying in the eu, or it could mean irish unity. and the good friday agreement has provisions for a unity poll – a right to decide. otherwise, we are not upholding the good friday agreement in all of its parts. this resolution is balanced with regard to citizens’ rights and the financial settlement, and it is an important step forward in recognising that the requirements of the north of ireland are different from those of britain. hence the need for special status or the need for the special circumstances to be taken into account. finally, i would like to welcome the comments from guy verhofstadt that we will explore how to give legal protection to the good friday agreement in the withdrawal agreement. if you support the good friday agreement, if you support the peace process, then please support this resolution.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, whilst we debate the really important issue of brexit, i think european citizens – those that do take any interest in what happens here – will be stunned that mr juncker comes here for his one appearance in the strasbourg session this week, and there is absolutely no mention made of the dramatic events that have taken place inside a european union member state that is, allegedly, a modern democracy. one of the reasons why i always wanted brexit was because i thought the system of law-making whereby the commission has the sole right to initiate legislation was something that would in fact damage, and in the end destroy, any concept of national democracy. and yes, i’ve called the european union undemocratic; i’ve called it anti-democratic, but never in my fiercest criticisms here did i think that we would see the police of a member state of the union injuring 900 people in an attempt to stop them going out to vote. whether or not it was legal nationally for people in catalonia to have a vote, surely, people are allowed to express an opinion. we saw women being dragged out of polling stations by their hair, old ladies with gashes in their foreheads. it was the most extraordinary display – and what do we get from mr juncker today? not a dickey bird. in fact, previously we heard that the rule of law must be maintained, and it is quite extraordinary to realise that this union is prepared to turn a blind eye. can you imagine if the british police roughed up a couple of scottish national party protesters, or if something happened against a pro-brexit rally? you would all be screaming blue murder. indeed, the calls would be that the united kingdom must go before the european court of human rights, and yet you don’t even want to talk about this. knowing, as i do, your advanced plans, with seven of the member states here having their military police – your european gendarmerie force – all i can say once again is ‘thank god we’re leaving’. brexit was an act of liberation. it was a voice of national self-determination that cannot, and will not, be stopped. but throughout this negotiating process, you have treated us as if we’re some kind of a hostage from the start, and unless we pay a ransom, unless we meet all of your demands, then you won’t even have an intelligent conversation with us about trade heading on from here. there are no guarantees that – whatever ms may says or does – you will ever come to us, even when we have met your demands, and want to have a sensible trade agreement. it was sad, in fact it was pitiful, to see the british prime minister in florence. i have heard you saying that she is being conciliatory, that she is being grown up, that people are happy with what she said. actually ms may, i am sad to say, is not worldly enough to recognise that when you face up to a bully, the one thing that you do not do is try to appease them. she is begging you to give her a transition period and there is no guarantee that you will do it, so i do actually agree with the criticisms that i have heard around the room about the mixed messages coming out from the uk government. i just hope that in manchester the conservative party starts to say in public what they are all saying to me in private: that she is a waste of space, that she needs to go, and that we need a proper prime minister who says to monsieur barnier ‘okay, here’s a deadline, here’s a date, we work towards that date. if we can’t reach a sensible deal on trade and everything else, then we are simply leaving and reverting to wto rules’. this charade cannot go on year after year. after all, we voted brexit. (applause from certain quarters)
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, what can i say? i agree with everything that nigel has said. the british people listen to you, and they hear that you want us shackled to the ecj, and they say ‘no’. the british people see that you are getting an eu army and, given what happened in catalonia on sunday, most of you so-called leaders were silent on this matter. you saw what happened, with the violence against its people, its women (and some of them are children), and they wonder what it will be like under mrs merkel, and also mr macron, when they get their hands on the guns and the tanks. the british people say ‘no’. they vote to take back control of our borders, and you say ‘no’. the uk said ‘yes’ to leaving the single market and the customs union, so you should just cut a deal on a free trade agreement. but you can’t. has mrs may met mrs malmström, our resident former sociology lecturer who is in charge of trade? she is incapable of saying ‘yes’ or ‘no’, because she has never worked in business. last night at the conservative party conference, a former brexit minister, with the brexit secretary david davis in the audience, said that the brexit department are drawing up plans for a no-deal. listening to mr barnier today, they had better get on with it, because that is what is going to happen. mr weber, you ask who you should you call in london. i agree with you. mrs may will be gone soon. i suggest you get boris or jacob on speed dial. mr verhofstadt, do not lecture us and try and rewrite history on northern ireland. i think it is you that is inciting violence, sitting in this chamber. last june we voted to take back control of our laws, our courts, our borders and our money. anything else is a betrayal. 17.4 million people. watch and learn from catalonia. (applause from certain quarters)
i will focus on only one aspect of the resolution today, and that is my constituency, northern ireland. i am encouraged by agreements in brussels, london and belfast that there should be no hardening of the border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. i’m encouraged by reports of fruitful progress on the issue of the common travel area. however, it is not flexible or imaginative to claim that a trade solution can only be found if northern ireland remains inside the single market or the customs union. let’s be absolutely clear: northern ireland’s brexit solution will be part of the united kingdom’s brexit solution. there can be no question of a deal that cuts us adrift from our most important market and erects barriers within the united kingdom single market. the interlinked nature of the brexit negotiations means that we need to move swiftly to phase two of the negotiations for a full resolution on this issue. northern ireland is not a bargaining chip in these negotiations. genuine concerns in my constituency should not be exploited in pursuit of every british pound. and finally, a word to mr verhofstadt, who claimed that europe had brought peace to northern ireland: peace in northern ireland was hard-fought and hard-won by its people and by the bravery of its security forces in the face of an awful terrorist campaign, that killed thousands of our people. europe has helped, but it has not been the sole arbiter of peace in northern ireland.
mr president, for decades, during some very dark times, europe was a good friend to northern ireland without taking any side. i will always remember, at the time of the ceasefires in 1994, when i went with my other two mep colleagues from northern ireland to the meeting with jacques delors which brought about the peace programme. at that time, over gbp 2 billion in extra funding was given to northern ireland and to the border counties in the republic. however, in this resolution, it is clear to me that you are now taking sides in northern ireland, mr verhofstadt. let me make it clear to you, mr verhofstadt, that peace in northern ireland was won by the leader of my party, now lord trimble, and the leader of the sdlp, mr john hume. they bore the brunt at a time when the other party leaders, represented on both sides in this house, who are now that the lead parties in northern ireland, stood on the sidelines and did nothing to help to bring peace in northern ireland. in fact, they have messed it up big time, which does not make the situation we have today any easier. shortly after those ceasefires, by calling for northern ireland to remain in the single market and the customs union with the rest of the united kingdom, mr verhofstadt is essentially calling for an international border to be placed between northern ireland and the rest of great britain. let me make it very clear: i will not accept any attempt by anyone in this parliament to use brexit as an excuse to break up my country. at its heart, this proposal goes against the belfast agreement the parliament is mandated to protect and defend. the belfast agreement is clear: northern ireland is a full part of the united kingdom, and we entered into the then eec as one united kingdom and we will leave the european union as one united kingdom. this is a sad day for me. if the parliament supports this text, it will be turning its back on decades of good relations with all communities in northern ireland. mr verhofstadt, you can no longer be deemed to be neutral after this resolution. that is your mistake. it is a huge mistake, and today i have heard nothing new. unless we have a change in the direction this is heading, we are heading for a crash. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, i am struck as ever by the unity of purpose across the council and the member states, and indeed across this house, amongst the eu 27. i commend our coordinator, mr barnier, for keeping that unity in check. but where the eu is united against the uk, i assure you the uk is anything but united. i represent scotland within this house. we desire to remain within our family of nations; 48% of the uk population want to remain. the idea that theresa may leads a united government is a risible proposition, as we see on a daily basis from our own colleagues who are treating her as a viking longship that they are going to float out into the north sea, having piled as much nonsense onto it as possible, and then they’ll set fire to it. they’re fighting amongst themselves like ferrets in a sack, while the uk’s national interest, however we define it, is ignored by them utterly. shame on them. it is not good enough for europe, it is not good enough for the uk either. and from scotland, we agree with the tone and content of this resolution. we have seen nowhere near enough progress on citizens’ rights, on ireland or in the financial settlement. on citizens’ rights, i am receiving emails on a daily basis that would break your heart – people who have made choices about their lives, about their residence – on the basis of rights which they face having taken away. our first duty in this house is to them. on ireland, north and south, scotland’s close neighbours and friends, solutions are possible; solutions could be found, but we need to see a lot more seriousness from the uk government than we have seen to date. the good friday agreement is fragile; it must be respected. we need to see seriousness from the uk administration. and on the financial settlement, it says just how far the uk’s reputation has been trashed, that the idea that the uk will meet its financial obligations is news. if global britain’s first act is to walk away from international financial contributions, it is just not a serious prospect. i fear for the future unless we see some real seriousness in these discussions. scotland wants to find solutions, colleagues. we must see more seriousness from the uk in that endeavour. (applause)
it is not about spain, sir. i must say it is disgraceful that european politicians should exploit the tragedy of northern ireland for their own purposes. that is a disgrace! i think it is a point of order, that we are not discussing ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we’re here to discuss the state of play of the negotiations and what progress has been made. well, very little. and there are two main reasons for that. one, of course, is that you don’t want us to leave. you’re going to do everything you possibly can to make it as difficult as possible, to delay it as long as possible, so that either we end up with a very, very bad deal or we reverse the decision of the referendum. the second reason, of course, is mrs may, who simply doesn’t have a clue. she has neither the courage, the will nor the resolve to actually see these so-called negotiations through. but mrs may has made some very serious and dangerous concessions already. what has she actually said? 15 months already after the referendum, nothing much has changed. she intends that we should leave the european union on march 2019. we will leave the commission, we will leave the council, we will no longer have members of the european parliament. we’ve left. but nothing much very changes, nothing much at all changes. she’s said that we are going to incorporate all eu law into uk law. and then she wants another two years transition period, which will take us up to five years from the referendum, during which case nothing much changes on immigration, the laws don’t change, and she has made one very, very, very dangerous concession, which is talking about an eu treaty on security and defence. we will continue to be bound to your military ambitions. we will continue to be bound to your security policy and foreign policy and to all the police and criminal justice measures like the hated european arrest warrant. she has not got a clue. and what she’ll end up with is a withdrawal agreement whereby we leave in name but we do not leave in reality. now, mr barnier, mr juncker: i don’t understand why you don’t actually make it easy for us to leave. why don’t you kick us out as quickly as possible? because then you can get on with your ambitions for full economic, financial, political and military integration. you can create your united states of europe. make it easy for us to go, so that we can get on with pursuing our freedom and independence, prosperity and our future in the world, not in the eu. do yourself and us a favour, please!
mr president, abraham lincoln famously once said: ‘you can fool some of the people all of the time; you can fool all of the people some of the time; but you can never fool all of the people all of the time’. well, the british people are no longer fooled that the eu wants to negotiate a fair brexit agreement, or even negotiate at all. from verhofstadt to juncker, to barnier and to tusk, the message is clear: the eu will delay, damage and deny brexit. when president tusk says the uk can’t have its cake and eat it, what he actually means is the eu wants its cake – our cake, the morning croissant, afternoon tea and, finishing it, we’re taking a pound of britain’s economic flesh, washed down with a glass of subsidised eu chianti. as shakespeare said: ‘this england never did, nor never shall, lie at the feet of a proud conqueror’. it is clear that the eu will not change its tune, so it is time for the uk to walk away and end this charade.
mr president, it is increasingly obvious to all that the negotiations are not proceeding as fast as they should and have no chance, or little chance, of reaching the stage of being able to move on to the second phase. it is also growing increasingly obvious to everyone where the blame lies for this: the chaos, the confusion and the divisions within the british government, a government which is now a minority government, having lost an election on a platform of going for a particular form of brexit that the public did not support. mr barnier, you will recall the very first meeting of the negotiations, one year after the referendum. the british government did not put a single position paper on the table at that meeting. here we are, six months after triggering article 50, and we have no agreement on the issues in the first phase of those negotiations, despite david davis, rightly or wrongly, accepting the sequencing that was proposed for those negotiations. this is just not good enough. the motion for resolution before parliament hopes that progress can still be achieved by the next meeting of the european council – only two weeks away. there is indeed another negotiating round. i suppose this hope is based on the fact that maybe, after the conservative party conference has finished this week, there may be some movement in the conservative government. i would say, ‘don’t count on it’. mrs may’s florence speech was not so much to improve and clarify her positioning for the negotiations with the 27, it was to improve her negotiating position within the british conservative party, and it has clearly failed even to do that. they are still at loggerheads, they are still divided, and sometimes i wonder whether they don’t even want to move on to the second phase of the negotiations because they do not yet know what kind of relationship they want to secure for the future. they are still too split, they are still at loggerheads, and there is still no clarity on that from the british government.
mr president, so mrs may has never felt at home in the eu. well, she’s not talking for me, nor the millions who voted to stay in and still want to stay in. we have millions of eu citizens who need clarity now with a stand-alone agreement, whatever the negotiations deal. but what mrs may really meant is that the brexiteers in her own party haven’t bothered to find out the benefits of the eu. they stay at home and think that the british empire still owes them a living. mrs may is surrounded by brexiteers. they are in control, and she is too weak to deal with them. brexiteers constantly blame brussels for their own failings. they said: ‘in the eu we can’t control our borders!’ that’s nonsense. we can manage eu migration; we just haven’t adopted the laws to do it. they say they have a plan for ireland, but so far, nothing. they said that the eu stops us making trade deals, but we have over 50 international trade deals now. so where is the vision for brexit? may’s florence speech has left more waffle, fudge and half-eaten cake on the table than is good for anyone’s cholesterol. prime minister, get a grip, or pack your bags and leave now. we can exit from brexit, so allow those of us who do feel european to sort this mess out democratically.
mr president, as we debate the brexit negotiations here in strasbourg, back in manchester foreign secretary boris johnson is preparing to deliver his speech to his party conference. he encapsulates the disaster that brexit is for my country. he was complicit in the biggest lie in the history of british politics and, with his tory cronies, he has used brexit as a power grab for himself. in her florence speech, theresa may said that the united kingdom has never felt totally at home in the european union. personally, i have never felt less at home in the uk since the vote to leave the eu. such a sentiment is echoed by many people: by the majority of young people who still consider themselves european, by people living in our diverse and multicultural cities and, of course, by those european citizens who have chosen – for reasons of love, work or study – to make the uk their home. if brexit is a divorce, then we are the children of the divorce and the process is a painful and troubling one. (applause)
mr president, the commission’s attitude to the wishes of the british people to leave the eu has been a disgrace. you would apparently rather harm other european nations by placing trade in peril than meet your own obligations to be constructive. if you were truly confident about what the eu has to offer, you would be content to let go an unwilling participant in the process of ever-closer union, but instead you wish to punish us to discourage the others: poles and hungarians dismayed by migration bullying; greeks and italians disgusted by the consequences of monetary union. britain is holding out the hand of friendship, confident of its place in the world, connected to a commonwealth and to an anglosphere, as well as to european neighbours. you, by contrast, are the hollow men, afraid that our success will show up your failings. we will not be intimidated. we will not be deterred. once again, we will set an example to europe. we are going to show that being free, democratic and truly global can see a great future for our country.
mr president, well it is certainly ‘bash-up the brits day’, isn’t it? i would like to give the parliament here a gold medal for political bullying, because that is quite frankly what we have heard so far. a number of people have referred to the lack of clarity of documents coming from the united kingdom. can i remind everybody that there was an agreement between both parties to keep those details confidential, and it has taken individuals in this parliament to divulge them and to criticise the united kingdom for not being forthcoming. well i have got more faith in my politicians that abide by confidentiality agreements than i have in a number of the individuals in the parliament this morning. one of my political colleagues back in the united kingdom during the referendum campaign made a very, very strong statement, which is: ‘the united kingdom should not be a star on somebody else’s flag’. it quite clearly appears to be that this parliament wants to erase the united kingdom from the flag but it wants to keep everything that the united kingdom contributes, be it money, be it defence forces, be it knowledge – whatever it might be. well, if you want that, go back to the negotiating rules. go back and understand what negotiation actually means. it means giving a bit to get something back in return. you have not given one iota. it is all very well holding 27 member states together in terms of unity but, quite frankly, what we are seeing now is a facade and theatre from parliament in terms of the negotiations. they are not serious and the sooner this country, the united kingdom, leaves, the better. (applause from the right)
mr president, i have to say that at some points this morning this debate has taken me back to my teaching days, where you used to get the occasional pupil who would behave so badly, as if they wanted to be thrown out of your lesson because they felt that way they were going to have an easy time and not have to do any work. i see some have bunked off early today. so let’s say here that this is a serious setup. it is a serious negotiation, and we do want an ongoing relationship. some of us would like the same one, but that is not on the table. so we have to ask whether walking away actually makes this a serious relationship. and no, it does not. aiming and continuing to say that no deal is better than a bad deal, or no deal is okay, is not a serious outcome. and does all of that show to other countries that you want to be a trusted partner in future negotiations? no, it does not. let’s also be clear that paying what you promised to pay is not a punishment: it is also about keeping your word. (applause from the centre)
madam president, we have heard the usual ranting from ukip and far-right colleagues fuelled by their diminishing testosterone levels. they state the obvious. they say they want a cliff edge, no deal and a complete withdrawal – what kenneth clarke called a calamitous act of national self-harm. well, there is no surprise there: that’s what they want. be clear about that, colleagues. that’s what they want. but i don't want that, and let me assure you that that’s not what a lot of british conservatives want. we want to make progress. ms may has signalled in florence that she wants to move. let’s speed this process up. this parliament can play an important role in moving the deal forward. we are experienced in negotiating; we are experienced in reaching consensus and compromise. i would like to make one point about this resolution, which is the one point i do not agree with. it is really important that this parliament urges mr barnier, the commission and the council to move forward with a parallel negotiation on some of the issues that the uk is signalling are important, on the principle that no deal is agreed until everything is agreed. that would open up channels of communication that would show goodwill and the willingness to go forward without digging our heels in and being just as stubborn and just as awkward as those gentlemen that i mentioned earlier. i’m not with them; i’m with this parliament, and i think that we could play a useful role here. let’s get on and do so.
madam president, some in the uk government want to blame the eu for the lack of progress in negotiations, but of course it was the uk government who, knowing the consequences, triggered article 50 – and now, six months after triggering article 50, the uk government still doesn’t know what it wants. it is spending all its time negotiating, or rather fighting, with itself; it is an embarrassment to watch. it can’t agree amongst itself what it wants from the divorce settlement, from transitional arrangements or from a future relationship with the european union. and as they squabble, companies in the uk go bust or look to relocate elsewhere, and people are losing their jobs. day after day now, we hear bad economic news, and as they squabble things get worse and worse. it really is about time the uk government pulled itself together: they should be clarifying their position and negotiating properly. they should be accepting the view of the scottish and welsh governments that the uk needs to be in the single market and the customs union for the transitional period, and indeed permanently. for once, the british government should put the country first, before the party.
madam president, i apologise to my colleagues, but my voting system seems to be breaking down. it is not often, as my colleagues can appreciate, that i vote in favour of something in this place, but it would be quite nice to be able to do so on occasion when i wish to. could one of the technicians look at it in the break? it is very sticky and static, and it needs sorting out.
madam president, ‘we do not know’ i said in answer after answer at an event i spoke at about brexit recently. it didn’t make for a very interesting or illuminating evening, but the crippling uncertainty is playing havoc with the british economy. every sector that i speak to has their own brexit problem: ground-breaking research that relies on cross-border data flows, imports and exports at our ports, or the freedom of movement of newmarket’s race horses. today’s debate shows what everyone knows. the talks are not going well, and that is hardly surprising when we have a cornered prime minister more worried about negotiating with her own cabinet than engaging constructively in the brexit process. as a remainer, i have no doubt that britain will emerge from all of this weaker, poorer and more isolated. today, this parliament has sent another warning siren. so i say to the british government: with a bumpy landing ahead why, oh why, do you choose to deliberately fly through turbulence? (applause)
madam president, i echo the sentiments of colleagues wishing you the best in your future endeavours: you have always tried to chair with impartiality, and for that i thank you. article 8 of the lisbon treaty is all about neighbourliness and cooperation. that is the spirit in which the brexit negotiations should be conducted, and a bit of give-and-take would be great, but it seems it is all give from theresa may and all take from michel barnier. this resolution is a shopping list: the eu’s goals on the northern ireland border but nothing on gibraltar’s. no one wants a hard border, but effectively this place are the ones raising the possibility. do we want reciprocal rights for eu citizens in the uk and vice versa? of course we do, but please do not gold-plate it to your children and children’s children. this sufficient progress test is nothing more than an unnecessary hurdle designed to throw a spanner in the works. this intransigence will not help britain, it is true – but it will not help the eu either. theresa may should fight fire with fire and act with boldness, not cowardice.
madam president, michael gove has promised that, as a result of brexit, the uk will be able to export more pig’s ears to china. the tory government has certainly made a pig’s ear of these negotiations and what is quite clear is that they have run out of ideas completely. the tories continue, distracted by a power tug-of-war, to steer us towards a cliff edge, promising three decades of damage to the uk economy. yet many persist in the deluded belief that we can cherry-pick. parliament’s resolution is a much needed reality check. that is why i supported it. what is clear in my region, the west midlands, is that no-deal means costs going up by 30% to 40% in dairy and meat and 10% in cars. that is why labour is saying ‘no deal is no way’ – whereas we will deliver one that retains jobs and protects rights. david davis, as you know, having not even delivered on his own job at the moment, is talking about his retirement whilst millions of people living in the eu and the uk have no idea what their future may be.
madam president, i would like to add my appreciation to those who have already thanked you for your service in the chair. this resolution and, even more, the speeches that we have heard today bear very little relation to the progress in the talks. britain has already said that it will not put up any physical border in ireland. we have already said that we will look at the financial settlement in the spirit of wanting advantageous outcomes for our european allies, as well as for us. we have already said that all of the social, working, residence and healthcare rights of eu nationals in the uk will be guaranteed. these things have been formally stated. i understand that there are some colleagues here who love to have a go at us – this is not new, it is not a post—brexit thing; it is an occasional occurrence in this house. what i think is strange – and will strike people in the uk as strange – is to have british meps, particularly in the s&d group, lining up to say that everything is going to be catastrophic and that the economy is tanking when that bears no relation to people’s actual experience. i hope that after we have left we will remove the main cause of contention and will be able to enjoy a better relation than we have now.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the international community should support this country on a basis of maintaining strict neutrality on their democratic process. the eur 100 million euros in grants and loans to moldova recently approved by the european union have, of course, the usual strings attached, not least when you consider parliament’s recent reports underlining your support, given their forthcoming parliamentary elections. with respect to your comments, commissioner, this naked ambition to attempt to influence eastern european nations is just another part of the eu’s neo-colonialism or, as you prefer to call it, foreign policy. surely the time has come, colleagues, for a different approach. why not recognise the geographic and cultural dilemmas affecting such countries and, instead of the usual tug-of-war with russia, use moldova’s position as a conduit to attempt to build bridges.
mr president, the luring and forcing of a child into a marriage is a disgusting crime, and one that ukip deplores. helpless and vulnerable children are often exploited in this way during school holidays. such criminal activity is a threat to our society and its values and is a hindrance to integration, wherever it is perpetrated. it is an absolute violation of the human rights of many of our young girls and boys. today, more than 250 million women worldwide are believed to have entered into a marriage before the age of 15. we strongly believe that those involved in such a dreadful crime must be prosecuted. in addition, there should be a refusal of permanent leave to remain, or the withdrawal of british citizenship, for any adult who has procured such a marriage for themselves or for children. it is shocking, in the 21st century, to recognise that forced marriage became a criminal act in the united kingdom as recently as 2014. this monstrous crime needs to be tackled immediately and by all parties, and the law should apply equally irrespective of race, faith or ethnic origin.
mr president, child marriages are a violation of the human rights of children, of young girls, and are a form of gender-based violence. this debate provides an opportunity for elected representatives to hear from the commission about the effectiveness of eu measures, whether it is in europe or in developing countries. for example, the right-wing ruling party in turkey recently considered a proposal to free convicted rapists provided that they marry their victims. to truly confront the reality, we must take a holistic view, empowering women and girls through education, ensuring that systems that subject girls to child marriages are eroded through women’s leadership from the grassroots community upwards and that girls themselves are enabled and empowered to speak up in every way they can. i am proud to be part of a european union that takes action to advance the rights of women and girls around the world and i look forward to hearing from the commission about their work on this.
mr president, i am glad that we are having this debate because it gives us the opportunity to reiterate, loud and clear, that child marriage is a violation of human rights and should be criminalised as such. girls are the most targeted group in this vile practice. this scourge only furthers gender discrimination and, in practical terms, it means legalising domestic sexual violence. the eu stands with women and girls and is committed to eradicating child marriage, with initiatives such as the daphne programme, but we can do more. we need to push all countries to introduce a minimum age for marriage and to ensure better access to sexual and reproductive health services. ending child marriage would be a major milestone on the path towards the empowerment of women, and thus it should remain a priority of the european union.
mr president, this house has shown extraordinary patience with egypt, which is considered a key partner by many in the house. but i believe it is time we made up our mind. can we stand by a partner where nearly 400 activists and dissidents have disappeared off the radar since august 2016? where students like giulio regeni are murdered in cold blood? where 22 people are arrested for waving rainbow flags, and where rockets are bought from north korea? i share the concerns outlined by the high representative over the economy and the ticking time bomb of youth unemployment, but we cannot let egypt be the sole decider in our partnership, excluding any cooperation on the rule of law and fundamental rights. i have two questions to the commissioner. firstly, our total ongoing assistance to egypt is worth eur 11 billion. what are we doing to leverage this? secondly, what measures have been taken to follow up on the resolution adopted last year following regeni’s murder to stop companies from exploiting technology that contributes to human rights violations in egypt?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the climate and energy package was imposed by the eu with the objective of achieving by 2020 a 20% reduction in co2 emissions compared to 1990 levels. since then, climate-obsessive politicians have set various objectives towards establishing targets that would involve the final deindustrialisation of europe. we in ukip disagree with the climate change alarmism which is the cause of the eu's current damaging and counterproductive energy policy. however, the commission continues to impose never-ending objectives for emissions reductions which invest vast amounts of money into activities that will have little or no effect on climate. realistically, we can expect global co2 emissions to keep rising for several decades. the massive exit of eu industry and investment is not only damaging our economies, but by its relocation to countries with lower environmental standards it actually increases co2 emissions. after brexit the eu will be in charge of its own destiny and we in britain will be able to formulate our own energy policy. the british people are looking forward to cheaper, reliable and affordable energy.
mr president, having listened to the last speaker i can say i disagree with every single word he says. this ludicrous myth of man-made global warming is going to impact on agriculture. farmers apparently are going to have to improve the world weather by emitting fewer greenhouse gases. there are two of them that we it emit where we find ourselves in total contradiction to eu dogma. the first is co2. we emit co2 by tractor use, exhausts and engines running. if we are seriously going to reduce that on farms, we’re going to have to reduce our tractor usage and that means we must go to no-till agriculture, which means using glyphosate and adopting gm crops. you hate those two things more than you actually hate co2. then of course we've got the other juxtaposition on nitrous oxide. we produce nitrous oxide by growing leguminous crops. yet we are told by the eu ‘you must grow more leguminous crops’ because they will substitute for all the gm soya beans coming in from south america. i could go on, mr president, but i'm out of time. (applause)
mr president, it’s impossible to talk about climate change without drawing attention to the grave situation in amazonia, brazil, where violence, land grabbing and serious human rights violations are now endemic under michel temer’s corrupt presidency. the current administration is propped up by agri-business, extractive industries and the hydro-electric dam lobby. multinationals given carte blanche to tear down the forest, rip open the earth, pollute the water supply and flood historic settlements such as san juan de araguaia, a 400-year-old town doomed to inundation by plans for mega electric hydroelectric dam on the nearby tocantins river. the guardians of the environment are the indigenous people and it is them we should be listening to. i listened and i saw. i went to amazonia in august – into the heart of the forest – and i bore witness to the unfolding environmental disaster, not just for the indigenous people or for brazil, but for the whole world. there is a direct link between the extratropical storm desmond that devastated my constituency in december 2015 and the destruction of the amazon. climate change knows no borders. the amazon is the lungs of the world, and its breath is life on earth.
mr president, i apologise that i was delayed getting to this debate, but it is about ryanair so i suppose that being late is quite fitting. are we really surprised that we are here debating ryanair, the airline that charges you fifty quid to check in at the airport? i mean, seriously, can you imagine if any other business made its customers’ lives a misery on purpose? imagine if it was somewhere like mcdonalds and they charged you extra to have a cup for your drink or to carry your food on a tray? and now we’ve got planes with no pilots because they treat their pilots in the same way that they treat their customers and there is not the slightest hint that they give a stuff about their customers. on a serious note, the irish government needs to pull its finger out and do something about it. the worst part of it all is that ryanair loves it: they love the rumours about standing-room on planes, or charging to go to the toilet, because they see criticism as free advertising. ryanair literally wants to charge you for absolutely everything. frankly they’ll probably want to charge us for brexit as well! no, hang on, that’s the european union.
in writing. – this crisis of cancellations, inconveniencing thousands of passengers has been on the cards for some time, and it is right that we debate how passengers’ rights should be enforced but what people really want is a convenient and reliable service. the truth is there is an inherent vulnerability in the ryanair model, relying on unsustainable employment practices: zero-hour contracts, bogus self-employment, degrading treatment and even paying for one’s own training. you cannot pummel pilots for decades and then expect a smooth ride. this crisis may pass but the problems will roll on unless there is a change of mind-set. as mep for the east of england, covering stansted airport, my message is clear. this does not take blue-sky thinking just an end to employment practices that are unsustainable and wrong.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, a constituent of mine, sally lloyd, contacted me in relation to a family tragedy four years ago when her brother, richard fearnside, disappeared while travelling on a ferry. the lack of cctv cameras on the ferry passenger decks left his family with many unanswered questions, not knowing whether richard suffered an accident, took his own life, or was possibly even pushed overboard. his name is added to an increasing list of missing ferry and cruise ship passengers and i am humbled to be able to support his family’s campaign for mandatory cctv and thermal imaging cameras on all ferries operating from british and eu ports. nearly 100 000 people have now signed their ‘change.org’ petition and tonight i formally urge all international institutions to act accordingly on this important matter. all the bereaved ask for is a degree of closure. surely that is not unreasonable?
mr president, the forthcoming eu council risks being a complete non-event if ambitions are not raised. the eu needs to look seriously at reforms and at the implications of a no-deal brexit: capital markets union (cmu) for example, and the digital agenda could be another, given the strong presence of tech startups in the uk. the eu and the uk also need to maintain close cooperation on foreign and defence issues. this is vital in files where the uk has been leading, such as syria, where, over the past two weeks we have witnessed the highest death toll in 2017. heavy retaliatory strikes by the assad regime and russia in the north, even targeting hospitals, have taken away all credibility from the astana process. a real political transition has to be a priority in geneva. the eu has to take political leadership to balance russian and iran, but also the usa. i urge the tory government to be earnest about continued collaboration with the eu on defence, and not to use security as a bargaining chip. on migration, subsequent commission plans have failed due to the lack of political will of member states. i urge the council to ditch the dithering and engage in substantial reform of the common european asylum system.
madam president, some years ago i wrote a book about the wreck of rms titanic. that terrible night showed all too clearly the consequences of not enforcing safety rules at sea. these rules that we have passed today bring the european union into line with the international maritime organisation, a branch of the united nations which is based in london, a great maritime city with a seagoing heritage reaching back more than 2 000 years. that is a reminder that in many areas of international relations it is not the european union that calls the shots, but other international organisations, and that britain is already a member of many of those organisations. this is just another reason why i believe brexit is going to be a great success.
madam president, my colleague, rupert matthews, just propagated an enduring myth, namely that the titanic did not meet the safety standards of its time. it is an idea sedulously propagated ever since, not least in the film in which leonardo dicaprio and kate winslet show such impressive post-coital vigour and energy for the rest of the duration of the sinking. in fact, the titanic was well in advance of the safety rules of its time on lifeboats and everything else, but i think there is a lesson to be drawn there about modesty, and about not thinking that you can declare some invincible or irresistible policy. look at the things we are voting on today: all these plans to eliminate unemployment and become the greatest knowledge economy, and so on. we are like the architects of that doomed vessel, with the lack of self-awareness to see that we cannot decree these things and make them happen. let us rather act in the spirit of the poor bandleader, wallace hartley, who, in his final minutes, played himself out with his threnody, remembering the hymn he had learned as a boy. if we stick to what we know, rather than presuming to tell the rest of the world what to do, we might be a little bit more respected.
madam president, in contrast to some of the bizarre views just expressed on the other side of the chamber, this is a very important update to passenger ship safety laws. it is quite a technical measure but it is very important. the main purpose of these laws must be to ensure that passengers and crew can travel safely on board passenger ships and boats in the eu. this simplification should help to ensure improved implementation, monitoring and enforcement of the rules, and it should therefore be supported. however, it is important that passenger confidence is maintained and that penalties for breaches of the national provisions adopted will be adequate and enforced. some of my amendments and the amendments of colleagues have ensured that. the final text moves in the right direction in these respects. it is absolutely worth voting for, and i am glad that i did so.
mr president, under rule 162, on monday in this house i proposed, as did other representatives of political groups, that we should have a debate on the situation in catalonia. this is a complex situation. it requires a proper debate, and i believe that the suspension of blue cards and catch-the-eye for this debate means that this matter cannot truly be debated. i would just like to put on record my protest that this debate is now containing the bare minimum in the way of debate. if these events had happened anywhere else in the world, if this had been something that had happened in the usa or russia, we would be holding a major debate on this now. yet with something that is actually happening in a member state of the european union, it seems that we are doing the absolute bare minimum. i just want to put that comment on record. (applause)
mr president, with respect to the previous interjection, this is not a spanish—catalonian problem. this is a problem of human rights, decency, democratic process and democratic rights. it is a matter not just for the european union, but an international matter.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i note the breaking news saying that the spanish government has now sent the army into catalonia. this is not a good sign. we have all seen the media images regarding the attempted suppression of the independence referendum called by the catalan government over the weekend. my first question would be: why? why did the madrid government feel it necessary to stop this in such a heavy-handed, brutal and, in the final analysis, counter-productive manner? it is blatantly obvious that by doing so, they have handed the initiative to the catalan nationalists. is the madrid government so afraid of its own people and so removed from political reality that it thought these actions would calm the situation? given that the madrid government has repeatedly stated, and we have heard it today, that a majority of catalans do not want independence, and furthermore that the referendum had no validity under spanish law, why did the government not simply state that whatever the result, the vote was null and void, and the catalan government was merely wasting everybody’s time and money? instead of which we now have a template which every independence movement on our continent can use to provoke unrest. mark my words: by their actions, mr rajoy and his advisers have lit a bonfire under your europe. the fact that the eu’s institutions and its leaders have failed to recognise the human rights abuses which have taken place and have instead focused merely on legalistic verbiage shows how shallow the foundations of this project really are. any ruling order that can condone acts of state violence has no popular legitimacy. those catalans who have looked to the eu for succour will be sorely disappointed. i feel that the only way the spanish government can restore trust is to accept that its behaviour was ill-conceived, launch an immediate independent committee of inquiry into the violence and state, that when the inquiry has concluded, a new and binding referendum under the auspices of the office for democratic institutions and human rights will take place. otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, this fire will burn and it will spread.
mr president, sunday, 1 october, will forever be remembered in spain and across the globe as the day that a forgotten history of spanish state brutality on its people returned to its country. i watched with horror as a grandmother’s blood washed down her tear-strewn face after a beating by the spanish police. i watched as young people, hands held aloft in peace, were smashed by black-suited armed storm troopers and their wild batons. the shame on spain rests mainly on rajoy, and now also the king of spain, for not only permitting the brutality of their police, but also – shamefully – for blaming the violence on those violated and seeking to dismiss the abused as the originators of the abuse. and what of the european union’s response? their first response should have been to completely condemn the violence. but no, whilst every right-minded person was outraged, they were critically silent on the violence. they sought to deflect the issue as a matter of breaking the rule of law by catalans. this is from the eu, which recognised the independence of kosovo without a referendum and which recognised palestine as a nation state, even though the eu treaties did not permit it. twenty five years ago, barcelona held the olympics. the closing song was ‘amigos para siempre’. it was written by a brit, andrew lloyd webber, and sung by a catalan, josé carreras. it means ‘friends forever’. well, i will tell the catalan people: there are those who oppose violence by your police against you, and they are your friends forever, but if the eu continues to ignore the violence against your people, you will know that they are not your friends ever.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and, in particular, the president of the court of auditors and i wanted to welcome his new approach which i think has been a breath of fresh air. also, of course, i wanted to welcome this year’s positive report. it is welcome to see that not only do we have a positive report, overall the error rate is reducing and i am also pleased to say that the error rate for economic, social and territorial cohesion is also reducing, down from 5.2% to 4.8%. of course we would all like to see further reductions in the error rate in the future. it would be useful to know what actions have been taken which have led to the biggest fall in errors. i think that this information could be shared between member states and then used to reduce errors in the future. i believe this is something we should be looking at and focusing on. it is also important to note, as the president said, that member states have the information to detect and reduce the error rate, maybe even below the 2% threshold. so again it would be useful to know why member states are not using the information they have, which would allow them to reduce error rates even further. on the important question of measuring performance – and i think this is something we all welcome, we talk about it all the time and we need to find better ways of measuring performance in the future – of course a number of measures have already been introduced to measure performance. previously in its report the court does suggest the commission continues to look at other ways of linking payments to performance. i would be interested to know from the commission and from the court what those measures might be.
mr president, i thank klaus-heiner lehne and his team for their report and i am delighted to note that this is the first audit to receive a qualified positive opinion since the system began in 1994. this is welcome, but there is always room for improvement, and i note the continuing weakness in the areas of joint management. in public finance it is important to strike the right balance between rigorous checks and controls and, on the other hand, ensuring public funding is readily available. so for that reason, controls need to be proportionate rather than a barrier to entry. this is taxpayers’ money, and it is our duty to ensure that it is spent in a manner that is both beneficial and fully compliant. this is a most encouraging report and i urge the commission to ensure that they continue the steady improvement that we have seen over recent years.
mr president, the qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the eu accounts is still a very, very serious thing indeed. if any business were receiving a qualified opinion on its accounts, it would rightly be worried. even more worrying, i suppose, is the way that we have arrived at this situation and why it was not the even worse adverse opinion as previous years. firstly, it is argued that errors are not pervasive, claiming that the errors are only high for reimbursement-based expenditure, but it needs to be pointed out that the errors exist across every single area of spending within the eu budget. the error rate of 3.1% is still over eur 4 billion of taxpayers’ money every year. if it were just that, it would still be bad enough, but it is not just that; there is an awful lot more to it than that. first, the error rate does mask a far, far higher rate of projects where there are errors. for example, 23% of eaggf payments had errors, but the error rate reported is 1.7%. for rural development and environment, 39% of projects have some errors within them but the error rate then is 4.9%, so it masks something that is somewhat bigger. second, about a third of all errors are not quantifiable and those therefore do not show up in the statistics. third, foreign aid sent via third-country governments is just assumed to have zero error, which for accountancy purposes is understandable, but in practice is palpable, self—evident nonsense. fourth, we are only talking about money spent outside of the rules and waste of the money within the rules is not counted. fifth, the errors in special instruments are not included, which would have led to a 5.1% error rate, rather than 3.1%. sixth, the burden of proof is unequivocal errors, so these are only the errors that we are absolutely certain about. there are clearly more in practice. then we see that, in effect, there are blind eyes being turned left, right and centre. on page 47 of this report, we are reminded that pension contributions are not ringfenced but used to fund the general eu budget. now that is something which, in any context and in any organisation, is not good practice. this is also the reason why we have the whole pension liability question in the brexit debate in the first place, since this has not been done properly at eu level for many decades. i now have deep concerns with regard to the court of auditors because auditors should always be completely independent of the organisation that they audit. that is the whole point of auditing. but now we are in a situation where nearly 40% of the court are ex—politicians, and most of those are ex—meps. when all but six of the auditors are former civil servants, it starts to undermine a level of public confidence in those same auditors. throughout this report the perspective seems to me to be one of excusing problems so when 31% of projects contained errors on page 260, the report instead described them as 69% error free. it is not the job of the auditors to excuse failings. it is the job of auditors to expose them.
madam president, the stated purpose of the european public prosecutor’s office is to pursue financial and economic crimes committed against the european union. now, the intention is to pursue criminals for crimes against the eu’s budget, but also the eu’s wider financial interests, for example cross-border crime such as counterfeiting and vat fraud. this new office usurps the authority of nation states and control of their own legal systems. for that reason, eight of the 28 member states have opted out of the european public prosecutor’s office. britain has an opt-out, but we are leaving the european union. i have always maintained that these opt-outs are essentially worthless, because the prosecutor would be able to utilise the eu’s existing legal instruments and legal institutions in order to circumvent the opt-outs. on monday, 25 september, i asked this very question at a meeting in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). the representative of the commission present confirmed that what i have said all along is correct, and leaving the eu will not make any difference for britain. ms may has said that she wants a new security relationship treaty with the european union. the treaty would include our subservience to all the existing eu legal instruments and institutions. we are being lied to, as usual. if ms may has her way, britain will be subject to the european public prosecutor after we leave the european union.
madam president, thank you very much for being able to address this subject this evening, which, regretfully, i will not be supporting tomorrow in terms of the vote. now, my colleagues have described how it is going to be portrayed, but can i just issue a big reminder? the european union has an absolutely abysmal record in terms of finance, budget and accountancy. it has had numerous scandals, that have been mentioned, and therefore to even begin to establish an organisation like this makes one wonder whether it actually has the competence to investigate what is happening within its own body? mention has also been made of the fact that a number of states have opted out. i think that is a very good move. the signal they are sending is that this ought to be stopped for a moment, a review ought to be conducted, and the financial systems and investigations that the eu currently has ought to be addressed, before embarking on something new which is going to cost, which requires resources and which ultimately takes away sovereign power from member states.
madam president, for many vat is that loathed tax that adds to the cost of our weekly shop. the reality is that consumption tax is meant to fund our schools and hospitals and the other vital public services. however, it is being avoided on a massive scale and the proceeds of vat fraud are being diverted to fund global terrorist organisations. a staggering eur 50 billion is being lost each year in vat fraud. a nice round figure to publicise on the side of a bus! indeed, it is extremely disappointing that the uk is one of a number of eu countries that have fought tax cooperation, the tax cooperation we so desperately need. by opting not to take part in the establishment of the european public prosecutor’s office, the uk is contradicting and undermining its own insistence on maintaining defence and security cooperation with the eu after brexit. i call on the uk government to stop its anti-terrorism posturing and go to the heart of the problem by joining the eu in its battle to fight vat fraud and starve the terrorists of the funds they need to function.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me start by underlining that the possible abuse of interpol red notices for political purposes is a matter of great concern to the council. following a letter from the german and the swedish foreign ministers to the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, regarding the arrest of two eu citizens with dual nationality on the basis of interpol red notices, the presidency decided to address this topic at the joint meeting of the political and security committee and the standing committee on operational cooperation on internal security, on 26 september. this was just the first step and the presidency plans to raise the topic again at the half-yearly meeting of the eu justice and home affairs senior officials with interpol on 20 november. we aim to discuss then possible improvements to the existing interpol systems, and we will listen carefully to interpol’s plans. the number of red notices has increased over recent years, and they are an extremely useful tool in obtaining the provisional arrest of persons sought for extradition for serious crimes. this was shown by the result of a commission questionnaire in 2016 regarding members states’ use of interpol red notices. over the years, these notices have indeed resulted in the arrests of numerous criminals. nonetheless, it is important that the proper review should take place before red notices are issued, which is a demanding task. it is essential that the rights of our citizens are protected and that an effective redress mechanism exists. the presidency is aware that the interpol general assembly last week, 26-29 september, discussed red notices. interpol has an internal, systematic and proactive review process for vetting the legality of new red notices entered into the interpol database. the presidency will discuss with interpol how this process could be speeded up and improved. the use of interpol red notices for the purpose of obtaining the arrest of persons sought with a view to extradition is not new. the 1957 extradition convention of the council of europe, to which all member states are parties, as well as turkey, allows interpol to be used for transmitting requests for provisional arrest. whether a member state accepts an interpol red notice, pending a decision on an extradition request, falls solely within the competence of the member state. i would like to emphasise that an interpol red notice will never be the basis for a decision to extradite, as that decision will be the subject of judicial review in a separate judicial procedure. therefore, there is always a judicial review before a person is extradited. it does not appear feasible to have such a judicial review a priori but, as i have indicated, we will discuss with interpol on 20 november how to improve the review of red notices by interpol itself.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am aware that interpol’s red notice system has been used for political purposes in some cases. obviously this is of great concern and it can have a significant impact on the persons involved. the overwhelming majority of red notices are genuinely used to seek the arrest of suspects and serious offenders. exchanging information with interpol is important in preventing and fighting serious crime. the arrest in brazil of one of the most wanted italian mafia criminals is an example of the added value of interpol red notices. eu member states are members of interpol and make use of its red notice system. they are, however, not obliged to act upon them. it is for the eu member states to assess what action they can take when they encounter a red notice and to consider such notices carefully in the light of their originating country. if there are abuses of interpol’s system, it is for interpol to put in place the necessary measures to prevent such abuse. as the eu is not a member of interpol, the commission cannot directly influence how interpol puts in place procedures to avoid such misuse. however, the commission has already, in the past, raised concerns with interpol about misuse of its instruments. the commission conducted a number of fact-finding missions and meetings in order to understand the procedures that interpol has put in place to process personal data. since february 2015 interpol has presented a new framework for processing personal data. the processing of notices and ‘diffusions’ against refugees will not be allowed if the status of refugee or asylum seeker has been confirmed. it will also not be allowed if a person fears persecution by the country establishing the notice. i understand that interpol has completed the process of reviewing its procedures and tabled a draft resolution to its general assembly last week. the commission will raise this issue with interpol as part of its november eu-interpol senior official meeting. the commission is ready to provide, as it has done in the past, any support that may be deemed necessary. as regards the procedures put in place by eu member states, the commission gathered information in october 2015 in order to understand how member states are using red notices from interpol. a large majority of member states indicated that the upload of interpol red notices into national databases is done only after further examinations and checks. the commission will continue to follow this important question closely in cooperation with our member states. i want to thank the house for your attention and i look forward to fruitful discussion with you.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we have heard very clearly from the council and from the commissioner a very clear recognition of a potential abuse of interpol red notices, and it is refreshing to hear that very clearly. the issue really for us today is to understand what we do about it, and the council went some way to explaining that mechanism – 20 november, and i want to say more about that in a second. the commission also explained some of the limitations to what can be done, and again we must address that today. but let us be very clear what is happening – and again we have support from both the commission and council in recognising that these notices and the systems have been abused to – let us be very clear – harass and detain political opponents and dissidents. the countries involved include russia, china and iran, let us be very clear. a process to prevent this abuse is needed to resolve the issue, which will become ever more important as databases are increasingly, directly and automatically consulted. this is not an issue that will go away on its own and i respect the honesty of the council in recognising this. there have been a number of recent examples of abuses of the system in turkey. after the failed coup in the country last year, we have seen worrying signs that the situation of human rights is deteriorating, and we see this additional problem with the interpol red notices as exacerbating the situation. we have received reports from journalists who are watching this debate carefully that they are now being harassed, and many others – including the nobel peace prize nominee can dündar who is living in exile in germany and who is currently on trial – are also being affected by this situation. we have heard from fair trials international, the organisation for security and co—operation in europe (osce) and others of what we need to do. as members of the european parliament, we need not only to speak out whenever there are incidents of political repression, but also to ensure there are safeguards in place to prevent the abuse of interpol arrest warrants, which are an important tool in ensuring the security of the eu. my questions then come back to the commission and council: can we provide more detail on what has been done to ensure the rights of eu and third—country citizens, and whether there is a better mechanism to ensure that necessity and proportionality checks are carried out on interpol alerts from certain countries. could the commission also provide guidelines on a common response on how best to handle extradition requests from third countries. i understand the limitations and the legal limitations, but i am happy that, in the initial responses from the council and commission, there is a clear recognition that we cannot see these potential abuses of interpol red notices happening on our territory; we cannot see these obvious abuses of human rights. we respect our freedom, we are a european union of values, so let us not see these abuses continue.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, it is very noble to criticise the governments in moscow and ankara for using arrest warrants to round up political opponents. this would have been very laudable had the events of last weekend in spain not happened. but one cannot lecture on other governments’ human rights records when this institution and the european union turn a complete blind eye to what happened in catalonia last sunday. the responses that we had from the commission about dialogue and the rule of law were, frankly, toothless. these were people who were going to put a cross on a bit of paper in a box. they were not calling for armed revolution, they were not trying to impose force on other people. they were expressing an opinion. and here we say to the governments in moscow and ankara that expressing an opinion is a human right. do not lecture other governments until you get your own house in order. get tough on spain because had it been any other government you would use all the powers you have to hold it to account. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i think we all agree that interpol and police co—operation across borders are extremely important for our security. however, when the interpol system is abused by undemocratic regimes to silence and persecute legitimate voices and human rights defenders, we must all be deeply concerned. the exiled turkish journalist, can dündar, is now facing a red notice request in germany after the turkish government submitted a request, accusing him of propaganda. he is one of an increasing number of individuals facing this type of persecution from afar. the kazakh government is another serial abuser of the red notice system, with more and more dissidents and opposition leaders being targeted or simply being unfortunate innocent bystanders. although interpol does respond to requests to review its decisions, we need much more robust guarantees and serious safeguards and we need accountability for decisions that put human rights at risk.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i want to pick up on the part of the question as it was written and to say that, if we are looking at calais, it is a very longstanding issue. my first visit to the safe parking area there was some 15 years ago. it was an area which had been set up by the calais chamber of commerce, and we have seen considerable growth of the infrastructure up there since, with steel fences, more police activity, and yet the problems persist. all of us would agree that drivers should be able to operate safely, and we do need to tackle the criminal gangs who profit from desperate people here. we need to look at how we are doing in terms of cross-border police cooperation. but i also do not want to see any more dead unaccompanied minors falling from a truck when they should have been safe in the uk, had the dublin system worked properly. so we do need a range of solutions to the problems we are looking at this evening, from asylum policy through to high technology.
mr president, as someone who has spent thirteen-and-a-half years in prison, i declare an interest in ensuring that prison systems and conditions are upheld to appropriate standards. irish republicans were interned without trial and endured awful prison conditions, those who went on hunger strike were vilified by the establishment, some prisoners lost their lives while being force-fed and, in 1981, bobby sands and nine other irish republican prisoners died on hunger strike. those days will never be forgotten. the good friday agreement ensured the release of politically motivated prisoners to advance the peace process, but even in this era of the peace process derry man tony taylor is detained without trial and should be released immediately. palestinian prisoners are subjected to regular violations of human rights and basque prisoners are held hundreds of miles from their families, who are unfairly punished by an inhuman dispersal policy. prison systems must show that human rights are upheld and applied consistently. they should never be used as a weapon by any state. i want to thank the rapporteur for this report.
mr president, without doubt existing european union policies, specifically human rights legislation and freedom of movement, are now actively contributing to the problems in prisons, and particularly those in the united kingdom. no one ever dreamed when devising these so-called european union pillars that they would be used to support mobile phone usage or drugs delivered by drones, or indeed facilitate the development of radicalisation and extremism, all adding to the enormous pressures on and dangers to prison staff. it is important, though, to acknowledge that prisoners have broken a social contract and so their incarceration acts as protection for society, as well as punishment of the perpetrator. overcrowding is a major issue: 5 000 of the 13 000 prisoners in united kingdom jails are eu citizens. as soon as we can actually achieve a proper programme of deporting those, and not see them protected by european union human rights legislation, that will go a long way to dealing with overcrowding.
author. – mr president, the plight of albino people in malawi is a true tragedy. i still remember debating this same issue in relation to tanzania almost a decade ago. the apparent killing of innocent albinos – or persons with albinism – and, tragically, mainly of children, for their body parts is still happening in many african states as well as malawi, where there has been a recent spate and rise in the number of killings to more than 20. other states reportedly affected include burundi, mozambique, kenya, nigeria and zambia. already, this vulnerable community is at risk of the medical consequences of albinism in the tropics, including a high risk of fatal skin cancer, but they are also now being murdered – almost unbelievably – to satisfy demand for traditional medicine that is more akin to medieval sorcery. the eu should not hesitate to campaign on the issue. i welcome the reforms of the penal code in malawi. i also welcome the recent adoption of the regional action plan for 2017-2021 jointly by the african union and the united nations. this is a positive and concrete signal of commitment by african leaders to ending all discrimination against persons with albinism and to prosecuting all crimes and atrocities against this vulnerable group of people.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, russia’s illegal occupation and annexation of crimea continues, and so must the eu’s resolve to protest about its action. sadly, the situation is not getting any better. there are now new allegations of human rights violations in crimea detailed in the un human rights agency’s report. it is also the case that the crimean minority group, the tatars, continue to be persecuted, which echoes the treatment of their grandparents under stalin. the imprisonment of prominent tatar dissidents, akhtem chiygoz, ilmi umerov and the journalist mykola semena, as well as the fact that the tatars’ parliament, the majlis, has been closed, is deeply alarming. my group, the ecr, will continue to oppose russia’s actions via eu sanctions and international pressure. the indigenous turkic-speaking population must be allowed to live peacefully in their homeland of crimea, and any efforts by the russian government to force them to leave the peninsula through policies of persecution or withdrawal of their democratic rights is totally unacceptable.
mr president, it is important that we keep on speaking out on the human rights violations that are happening on our doorstep in ukraine and occupied crimea. this resolution makes a clear call for the release of imprisoned tatar leaders and activists. but we should not forget ukrainian political prisoners in russia, who have been languishing in prisons for years now. in particular, i have followed the case of the talented filmmaker oleg sentsov, who is in prison in siberia, convicted on trumped-up charges. we must send a message out from this house that we will not be quiet and we will not forget these people who have been locked away. the eu must continue to put more and more pressure on the russian government to end its human rights violations and let these people go.
author. – mr president, i am deeply concerned about the worsening situation in the maldives. president abdulla yameen and his government seem focused on increasing their authoritarian rule. opposition leaders have been imprisoned, parliamentarians and journalists have been intimidated and threatened, and news organisations has been forced to close. all of this is deeply alarming. added to this are the plethora of new laws that limit the freedoms of speech and of assembly, and there is now an end to a 60-year moratorium on the use of the death penalty. this all exhibits a deeply worrying trend towards a politicised judiciary and police, and it cannot be ignored that the maldives now tops the table in terms of the number of isis recruits per capita of population. it is also deeply regrettable that the maldives took the decision to leave the commonwealth in 2016, demonstrating yameen’s unwillingness to cooperate with international partners. we must now urge yameen to uphold his country’s constitution, to protect democratic rights and to restore fundamental freedoms in line with international law and conventions. all political prisoners held on fabricated charges should be released, and the presidential elections in 2018 should be free, fair and inclusive. it is vital for the future of the maldives and its people that freedoms of assembly and expression are upheld for all.
author. – mr president, i speak in my capacity as chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with south asia, which includes the maldives. in fact, we have a visit planned there at the end of this month, but this resolution is separate in its motivation from that visit. however, we will welcome an opportunity to discuss our findings with everyone who is so concerned today on our return. i think it is clear to say that we recognise the positive role that the maldives is playing in terms of their international commitment on climate change and their cooperation with the european union on issues of security, for example. however, as has been made very clear this morning, there are very deep concerns about issues of governance since the major constitutional changes of 2008. on our last visit, and since then, we have picked up on growing concern about the independence and impartiality of the judiciary at all levels, the recent suspension of one third of lawyers, the narrowing of the freedom of expression and the pressure on independent media. the recent murder of the blogger that people have referred to actually sent shockwaves throughout the maldives, as well as the rest of the world, because murder is so rare in that society. i think all of us, as mps, would be worried if we saw most of our party leaders in jail, facing criminal charges. so we need productive political dialogue, and we need a strengthening of independent bodies, such as the human rights commission, so that we can see democracy move forward in the maldives, as we all hope.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, just a few days ago at the un general assembly, the maldives foreign minister said the following words: ‘looking to cultivate a culture of respect for human rights at home and abroad is our goal. we believe we have been successful’. the maldives government wants us to believe that the country is a young democracy and a tourist paradise, but this just isn’t the case. recently one third of all practising lawyers were suspended for calling for the independence and impartiality of the judiciary. numerous prisoners are currently under death sentence with serious concerns about the fairness of their trials, and at least five of those convicted are under 18 years old. the blogger and prominent human rights defender yameen rasheed was killed in april. sadly, he is another victim of the wider crackdown on the freedom of expression in the maldives. my group is alarmed at the deteriorating situation, as well as the continued harassment of the media, political opponents and civil society. we ask the external action service and member states to make full use of all instruments at their disposal in order to promote human rights and democratic principles. we call on the maldives authorities to stop ruling with an iron fist and enter into a genuine dialogue with opposition parties and civil society, ensuring free and fair elections. we also urge them to reinstate the moratorium on the death penalty. it is time to back up words with action and to embrace human rights and justice. it is in the interest of all maldivians.
mr president, i come to similar conclusions to this report in many ways, but for different reasons. i note that paragraph 15, the text on female genital mutilation, is calling only for laws to be enforced. it is a barbaric practice and, quite frankly, it is something which also happens in the european union and gets brushed under the carpet. it even happens in my own country, and yet there are no successful prosecutions for it. so i would make exactly the same call to ourselves. when it comes to the death penalty, i have to say that my opposition to the death penalty is one which is practical. simply to say that: if there were the rule of law, if there were fair trials, if we knew that it was being done in a manner that actually represented justice for a lethal crime, then i would be saying that it is the sovereign democratic right of that country to take its own decision on that issue. my concern is that what is happening here is that we are speaking of the death penalty for children, of a politicised judiciary, and of a country where there is arbitrary detention, serious concerns over extrajudicial actions and the murder of anti—government bloggers, for example the case of yameen rasheed. so that is not really what is happening, and therefore i take a much dimmer view. we have a country which has left the commonwealth and where there is a huge amount of recruitment going on for isis. finally, i will finish by just noting the bill on the protection of reputation and good name and freedom of expression, which seeks to clamp down on freedom of expression in that country. it is just so orwellian to say that they have a law for freedom of expression, which is actually being used for completely the opposite purpose.
mr president, my group calls for an oral amendment for the deletion of paragraph 15. we have been advised by the external action service that it is factually incorrect. oral amendment to delete paragraph 15, please.
mr president, as a result of advice from the external action service, my group has been asked to add the word ‘former’ before ‘leader’, as he is no longer technically the leader of his party. this is just a factual error which needs correcting.
mr president, i did not endorse this report, i abstained. i've been dealing with the european prosecutor issue for over a decade. i was in charge of this subject when i was a member of the government in the czech republic, and i have to say that even after ten years there are still a number of important professional objections against this institute. again, experts argue that the establishment of a new office may, on the contrary, lead to the prolongation of some criminal cases by sending them to brussels, preparing files, etc. it should be borne in mind that ultimately the decision on those criminal cases will still be in the hands of the domestic national justice of each member state. in short, this remains here, and if the reason for establishing the european public prosecutor is a lack of confidence in national judicial systems, in national legal systems, then it must be remembered that this institution will not solve this as such. that's why i've been holding off, and i'd be happy to see the practice disprove my objections.
mr president, normally i abstain on matters that do not affect the united kingdom. the european public prosecutor’s office is being introduced through enhanced cooperation, but, in this case, it will affect the united kingdom because that office will have the power to issue european arrest warrants and, consequently, the power to detain british citizens living in the uk. i therefore voted against this resolution, and i note that it is yet another situation where those who support european union membership in the united kingdom have been less than forthcoming about the true nature of the eu project.
mr president, supporters of this proposal tell us that crime does not recognise national borders. they say this as though it were an original insight. of course crime crosses borders, and for many years democratic nation states have collaborated without supranational institutions. we have the hague convention; we have interpol; we have extradition treaties; we recognise time spent in another country’s prison. this is not about cooperation; this is about the creation of a federal legal system and a federal prosecution service, giving the european union the ultimate attribute of statehood, namely the ability to use coercive force against its own citizens. yes, sure, starting with questions like fraud against the eu budget and racketeering is just the way the fbi and the federal prosecutors started in the united states. however, the eventual aim is of course for it to become the basis of a legal system for a country called europe. we absolutely believe in cooperation in the field of crime and policing. after the united kingdom has left, you will be able to rely on our continued collaboration, but this is exactly why we are leaving.
mr president, this is the first time i have spoken here since taking my seat in july. i wanted to wait until i actually had something worth saying and something i could speak knowledgeably about – not as a prisoner, as has been the experience of some here, but as a long-serving british magistrate. i have visited many types of prisons, and have seen for myself the good, the bad and the downright frightening. these experiences have led me to vote against this report, not because of its good intentions, but because it does not adequately address the most urgent issue facing prisons across europe, as well as in norwich, bedford, chelmsford and in the other prisons across my region: that is the rise of radical and violent ideologies and terrorist radicalisation. secondly, in its utopian call for fewer prisons, it goes far beyond the competences of this parliament. these are matters that should, and indeed must, be left to individual nation states. for these reasons, and several others, i voted against.
mr president, first of all, if you want to have fewer prisons, you have to start by having fewer criminals. you need to cut the rate of offending. that means we need to be in a position where we can cut the rate of reoffending by people who come out of prison. i believe fundamentally in rehabilitation. i believe that it is good for society if you can take people and put them back on the straight and narrow. if you want to do that, however, you have to do it with teeth. you have to make sure that people who get early release from prison have got three things: that they behave in prison; that they develop their education whilst in prison; and, fundamentally, that they get a job to go to, so they can break the cycle of reoffending when they come out. if we do all of those things, then, yes, of course society should invest in helping prisoners to rehabilitate. we hear much about the carrot but we don’t hear very much about the stick when it comes to anything related to our judicial system. i really do believe we need to make sure that those people who do not engage in the process have got tough prison conditions, and that prison then becomes for them a place of punishment. lastly, what we are completely missing in all of this is that this is not a matter for the european union. it is for member states to decide on their own prison systems.
mr president, you quite rightly called the house to order with regard to taking a minute’s silence. could i ask the parliament to put my remarks on record. perhaps you would like to join me in sending condolences to the 300 victims of an al—shabaab terrorist bomb in mogadishu in somalia and to many, many hundreds of victims. perhaps that could be added to the record of the parliament. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the onus of proof must always lie with those who impose the restriction. regulation must not been made for regulation’s sake, and the rule is made for people and not the other way around. restrictions and prohibitions must be justified. this means a real risk to human health – not just a hazard. all actions are hazardous, and if that were the criterion we would all do nothing. we would still be living in caves with much shorter lifespans. it also means looking at the real—world impact of this legislation. are substitutes available? can the damage of the restriction be mitigated? have we used a sledgehammer to crack a nut? there is no clear evidence that we need to crack down hard on cadmium, and lots of economic consequences which are real and damaging. fertilisers are a cost, but they allow modern agricultural productivity essential for the size of the world’s growing population. i am a farmer, and i can tell you that no sensible farmer applies any fertiliser he does not regard as essential, and he selects the most cost-effective option. we believe that the case for a 20 mg cadmium restriction has simply not been made. it will further burden eu agriculture with no identifiable benefit. limits in the united states, canada and australia are over 120 mg, but their people are not suffering. so how can it possibly make sense to add to the cost, enrich the russians, handicap eu production and reduce our competitiveness? also, what are we going to do with all this cadmium that we do pull out of the phosphate, if indeed we do that? that is when it will become a real hazard.
mr president, we welcome much of this report and the modernisation of the current regulation, but the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has simply gone too far on cadmium levels, which they had competence on. their proposal to lower the amount of cadmium fertilisers to just 40 mg in three years and then just 20 mg in nine years goes against scientific evidence and would have a dramatic effect on our ability to produce food. our farmers need affordable and high—quality fertilisers. they directly increase the productivity of many crops. the commission proposed 60 mg, even though they had evidence that 80 mg would do the job and lead to a reduction in the accumulation of cadmium in the soil. fertilisers, we should also remember, are only one reason that cadmium can end up in the soil and in diet: alone, they don’t solve the problem. the eu imports 85% of fertilisers, and most of those inputs will not meet the 60 mg proposal, let alone the 40 mg target or the 20 mg target down the line. so, if this report goes through, our farmers will face massive cost increases, which will make our food even more expensive. i therefore urge colleagues to support the amendments tabled by the ecr group, which sets a maximum level at 80 mg.
mr president, i welcome the efforts of parliament and the commission to shift the balance to organic fertilisers while improving the single market for fertilisers. in line with the circular economy principle, we need to find an affordable way for our farmers to switch to more organic alternatives. however, since 80% of the eu market is inorganic fertilisers, we have a responsibility to our citizens and the environment to address maximum levels of contaminants in inorganic fertilisers. cadmium is a class one carcinogen according to the world health organisation, and exposure can lead to pulmonary disorders, kidney disease, cancer, fertility problems and osteoporosis. we have been talking since 2003 of reducing cadmium in fertilisers and it has taken us 14 years to get us to the stage we are at today. i hope in the coming years we will see significantly lower cadmium levels than we see now across the eu and across the world and i welcome these proposals.
mr president, fertilisers are a necessity for producers. in some cases, fertiliser can account for over half of the farmers’ input costs – a price the farmer cannot control. placing heavy limits on cadmium, despite the lack of scientific evidence to show this is necessary, will reduce supply and hike prices for farmers across the european union. 80 mg per kilo with provisions to review would still allow risks to public health and the environment to be managed safely. studies suggest that 80 mg per kilo on average is enough to stop cadmium accumulating in soil. stronger limits are simply not supported by any available scientific evidence. i would therefore urge members to support amendments calling for a maximum cadmium level in phosphate fertiliser of 80 mg per kilo.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, combating the distribution of illegal drugs is a global issue that requires all countries to cooperate in order to effectively fight. how best to tackle this issue is, however, up for debate. some countries have chosen to take a softer approach, whereas others – most notably the philippines – enact a zero—tolerance policy on drugs. the eu, however, decides that the best way to tackle illegal drugs is via legislation. and whilst this may appear to show the eu taking the issue of drugs seriously, it fails to tackle the fundamental problems that facilitate the drug issues in the eu – that, of course, being the borderless schengen area. a europe without borders not only facilitates the free movement of drugs, but also the free movement of weapons, terrorists, and illegal migrants. if the eu wishes to take the protection of its citizens seriously, it must dismantle schengen, and it must dismantle it straight away. (applause)
mr president, for the past 50 years, governments have thrown billions, even trillions, of dollars, pounds and even euros at the so-called war on drugs, and all it has resulted in is more ways for the drug traffickers and drug cartels to put different substances on the streets. and now we get these psychoactive substances. in my constituency, you go down some streets and you find these little gas canisters on the street. legislation like this – legislation like any in the war on drugs – is always reactive. you’re trying to put the toothpaste back in the tube: you’re trying to stop something that is already happening, and by the time you have stopped it another substance is on the street, another legal high. unless you recognise and look at the social problems behind it, unless you realise that throwing more money, more money and more money at the war on drugs is not working, unless new ways are found, then you are just going to be wasting taxpayers’ money that could be spent on healthcare, education or defence, or on combating the problems and the criminality associated with drugs, but not necessarily addressing the drug problem itself.
mr president, whistle—blowers are essential for protecting the public interest, saving public money and ensuring transparency and integrity in public life. in the light of recent scandals, and particularly following last week’s assassination of maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia, it is crucial that we adopt an eu-wide protection plan. when protecting whistle—blowers, we also protect journalists and their sources, we protect ngos and freedom of speech, and we protect the truth. i am proud that my group has played such an important role in promoting eu action for the protection of whistle—blowers, and i want to thank my colleague, virginie rozière, for her work on the report. transparency, democracy, free press and high ethical standards – both in public and private organisations – are the values that we protect when we protect whistle—blowers. we need to stand strong on these, especially when faced with attempts to dilute the substance of the report by some other groups in this house, namely the epp. we in the european parliament should lead the way on greater transparency, not pull the curtains shut or close the door.
mr president, as commissioner moscovici told our committee last week, the european parliament is leading the eu institutions in fighting tax avoidance and money laundering, but we would never have been able to do this without the work of antoine deltour: the luxleaks whistle-blower whose courage led to the setting up of a series of special tax committees. daphne caruana galizia, the maltese journalist who was killed by a car bomb last week, gave evidence to our committee about the tax affairs of the rich and powerful in malta. these two brave people gave us the information we needed to challenge the corrupt and self-serving behaviour of the global plutocracy, behaviour that is shaking the very foundations of our democracy as people lose faith that the system works for them. one was found guilty and barely avoided jail. the other was viciously murdered. this is the sort of courage it takes to be a whistle-blower in a world without protective legislation. how much corruption remains hidden because those who know about it are too afraid to come forward? the legislation that parliament proposes today would offer whistle-blowers the protection they need.
mr president, we have a minimum wage in the united kingdom. it is called a minimum wage, but it is less than the minimum amount a person can live on. its spending value is lower now than it was nine years ago. in the uk, more than seven million people in working families protected by the so—called minimum wage live in poverty. the latest figures show that 1.1 million people in the uk are using food banks, over a quarter of whom are in work. only a real living wage will truly tackle in—work poverty. a living wage is a fundamental issue of social justice. it is the most basic economic protection there is. it is a guarantee by each state to its citizens that their work will earn them enough to live off. the introduction of the minimum wage across all eu states is welcome, but it is my sincere hope that we will set our sights on making a minimum wage a living wage.
rapporteur. – mr president, youth unemployment has been one of the scandals of our time. some of the youth unemployment rates in some member states have been an absolute disgrace. therefore, i am pleased that the eu has done its part to tackle this scandal through the youth guarantee scheme and the youth employment initiative. between 2013 and 2017 youth unemployment has come down from 23.8% to 16.6%. i am pleased that the eu has put his money where its mouth is. i am pleased we have put more money into the programmes to allow us to tackle this issue. i am also pleased that the programme was front-loaded and pre-financing was increased in order to tackle the problem when it was at its worst. i am also pleased that the eu has now agreed to extend the youth employment initiative up until at least 2020. so all that is good. however, more needs to be done. the programmes got off to a slow start. they were introduced quickly. many member states did not have the capacity or the structures to put in place the programmes, and it therefore got off to a slow start and youth unemployment still remains high. it is currently around 18%. therefore, i would urge member states not to use eu funds to replace their own funds and programmes, but i would urge member states to use their own funds to tackle youth unemployment, and not just rely on funds coming from the european union. i would also urge member states, companies and trainers to ensure they are offering a good-quality opportunity to young people and not just use them as cheap labour, as we have seen so often in the past. on implementation and monitoring, because after all this is a committee on budgetary control report, i want to say i am concerned that there is sparse data on the output and results of the programmes. better systems need to be put in place so that the results can be properly measured. we need to know how effective and efficient these programmes are. i would also like to see better market analysis so relevant opportunities can be offered to young people. we want opportunities which would benefit young people, but also benefit the economy. finally, hopefully we will see an evaluation coming from the commission soon on these important programmes. this will allow us to make adjustments to improve implementation of these programmes even further. as i said at the start, these programmes have been worthwhile. they have made a huge difference but there is still much to do.
mr president, my constituents are alarmed at the threat to coleman’s mustard factory after the announcement that britvic, who share the same site, are closing their operations. coleman’s mustard is norfolk through and through, and norwich is where the jobs must stay. the 200-year-old larder staple is quintessentially east anglian, made in norwich with english mustard seeds from norfolk, cambridgeshire and lincolnshire, and it is enjoyed across the world. the decline of manufacturing jobs is not written in stone, and 10 000 people have already signed the edp petition to say that we do not want to see much-needed jobs that are vital for the norwich economy lost, and we do not want to see the 200-year norwich and coleman’s link severed. so my message is clear: norwich does not just have a fiery condiment: we have fiery campaigners too. so, unilever, please come up with plans and reassurances that really cut the mustard.
mr president, it is an honour to speak for the first time in this parliament as its newest member, and in doing so let me first pay tribute to my predecessor, glenis willmott, who made a distinguished contribution to this parliament, my group and indeed my party. i speak today on an issue that should unite this parliament: the issue of mental health. this is our first plenary since world mental health day and, as we see the impact of austerity bite, we see mental health services such as those in the uk stretched to breaking point. it is time for our member states and their governments, and indeed this european union, to redouble our efforts to improve that situation, to secure parity of esteem between mental health and physical health and to eradicate mental health stigma and discrimination. our job as parliamentarians is to be a voice for those who cannot be heard. on this issue, that task is more important than ever. together, we can address this challenge and make sure those people who need a voice on this issue have many voices in this parliament.
mr president, as we live in an ever more deeply interconnected world, we rely more on online services. and it is not just our laptops or gadgets which are connected, it is public institutions, governments and our very own homes. however we make sure we stay safe in this online realm, and that our personal or government data is not hacked into and our democratic processes are not tampered with, i believe the cybersecurity package presented by the commission last month takes the right approach to ensure we have a concrete european response to potential cybersecurity threats. international and operational cooperation amongst member states is key, and can only be achieved by bridging the divides between the internal and external, the public and private and the civil and military that exist within our member states and the eu. the creation of eu cybersecurity standards and certification frameworks will help businesses and citizens to understand when products are cybersecure and improve trust in digital services. the interconnected world we live in is exhilarating, but it also poses potential challenges to every single one of us. i hope that this proposal will be debated thoroughly in this house.
mr president, over the past months the level of violence across the oromo and ogaden regions of ethiopia has hugely increased. human rights groups continue to raise concerns over the use of excessive and unnecessary force by the state in response to peaceful protests. these developments take place after years of human rights violations by the state against ogadeni, somali and oromo groups, including arrests and systemic violence against women, documented by the unrepresented nations and peoples organisation (unpo). the recent outbreaks of cholera in the country have increased the uncertainty of the situation. i am ashamed that the european union has not yet made a statement on this worrying situation. as ethiopia’s long-standing partner, the european union should express its concern over the growing unrest and address the human rights abuses being perpetrated against minorities. ethiopia is a crucial actor for security in east africa. there must be a democratic and inclusive dialogue among groups in ethiopia in order to de-escalate the tensions and bring about lasting peace and stability.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, gianni, i admire your idealism when you speak, and it is important that we all tackle poverty but i prefer community-led solutions rather than top-down. let me just correct you on one of the myths that you highlighted, which is about robin hood’s motivations. let us remember that robin hood stole money from the tax collector to give the money back to taxpayers. let us remember that when we are looking at the robin hood story. last week’s council meeting highlighted one simple fact: that the eu is sometimes in danger of allowing idealism to get the better of pragmatism. this is certainly true when looking at the european council’s and parliament’s positions on the migration package and negotiations with the uk. the european conservatives and reformists group (ecr) welcomes much of the council’s current strategy in tackling the migration crisis, closing trafficking routes across the mediterranean, strengthening cooperation with international partners, returning unsuccessful applicants and strengthening the role of frontex. two years ago the ecr published these papers that called for exactly these kinds of sensible measures. maybe if they had been introduced at the time, then maybe there would be more confidence in our migration and asylum system today. instead, this parliament appears to have a position on adopting a regulation that throws out the rulebook and long-established asylum laws to pursue a relocation system which has not exactly been a success, with proposals which mean that an asylum seeker would no longer have their application processed or even have a first admissibility check in the country that they arrive in and continuing to force quotas on countries which have already said that they do not support relocation.this approach gives asylum seekers false hope and eu citizens false solutions. these proposals will not increase solidarity but they may increase voters’ frustrations with politicians. please let us rethink the unintended consequences of parliament’s proposals in a pragmatic way. on the brexit negotiations, let us be more pragmatic. as a british mep, who leads one of the largest political groups in this house, who enjoys good relations with people on both sides of the negotiating table and who, like jean-claude, wants a mutually beneficial deal, i hope that we avoid becoming trapped by the sequencing of negotiations. for there to be real progress, we must take a step back and look at the process as a whole. just as there needs to be an understanding from the uk as to where the eu 27 are coming from, there also needs to be an understanding from the eu 27 as to where the british people are coming from. the uk joined the eec 40 years ago because more than anything it believed in open trade. that remains the uk’s main motivation for its current relationship with the eu, and it will be a major motivation in creating the uk’s future relationship with the eu and vice versa. so perhaps the more the eu talks about the issues that resonate with the uk, it may find that the uk is more willing to give concessions on the issues that the eu 27 care most about and prioritise. on both migration and uk negotiations, we may all find that while idealism may be a wonderful way to view the world and sequencing may appear to be perfectly logical, it will be pragmatism that delivers the solutions that we all want to see.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i say to president tusk that we see that yourself, mr barnier and president juncker have all stated that there is some progress being made in negotiations with prime minister may, and that the eu will evaluate progress on each of these issues in december. however, the underlying meaning of this progress is plain for all to see. the meaning is that the british prime minister is conceding ever more ground to the eu, rather than standing up for that which the people of the uk voted. the people of my nation voted not just to leave the eu 28, but to regain our sovereignty. what mrs may is doing is quietly surrendering, so that we will end up neither leaving nor sovereign. we will remain subservient to the eu, both financially and legally, a nation condemned to serfdom by its own leaders. for this i do not blame the eu or its negotiators. you are only pursuing your perception of the interests of your project. for this, i condemn the uk government. by its supine behaviour it has forfeited the trust of the british people, whether they originally voted either to leave or to remain. more than that, it has betrayed those who voted her into power at the last election, this conservative party that won the election with the slogan ‘brexit means brexit’. the fact this government is slowly backtracking on its commitment to the british people must stick in the craw of those who voted for it. although the eu is, in the way it is conducting these negotiations, breaking the united nations declaration on principles of international law, which clearly states that no state may use or encourage the use of economic, political or any other type of measures to coerce another state in order to obtain from it the subordination of the exercise of its sovereign rights and to secure from it advantages of any kind. and indeed its own treaty commitments to sincere cooperation and the progressive abolition of restrictions on international trade. the fault lies with her majesty’s government for not having the courage of our convictions, and saying ‘enough is enough’. the other side is not seeking negotiation but capitulation, and walking away. whatever the financial settlement mrs may finally agrees to pay, whether it is gbp 100 or gbp 100 billion, it will simultaneously be too much and too little: too little for those in the eu who seek to punish us for having the temerity to seek our own path. for those ideologues no punishment is too great for those who seek self-determination. and too much for those of us who wish nothing more than to be good friends, neighbours, allies and partners of those we leave behind. because this extortion will poison uk-eu relations for years to come. for the good of us all we should now shake hands and walk away.
blue-card question. – surely, mr brok, it is not a matter of right that the european union demands this money, it is a matter of necessity. would you not agree with me? because you are broke.
madam president, most of us watching from the united kingdom were pleased to see that the council meeting ended up in a better mood, and a better spirit, of cooperation than what we have previously seen. i welcome the progress that seems to have been made in moving towards trade negotiations, hopefully in december. the united kingdom seeks a deal that is mutually beneficial. it seeks a deal that recognises a strong, independent united kingdom, cooperating and working beside a european union. that cooperation can be in areas of defence, areas of the economy and things that are important to all of us. can i say, in respect of northern ireland, that i fear that these institutions are in danger of overreach? the guarantors of the belfast agreement are the british and irish governments, not the european institutions. while europe has been enormously helpful in building peace, we need to remember who are the primary operators and the primary legislators in this particular area. it is most important.
madam president, halloween is nearly here and, on cue, the european union rises to the occasion with two positions and two leaders. truly, european union jekyll and hyde politics is alive and kicking. what have we learned in the last couple of weeks? we have learned that insufficient progress should be translated as ‘give us more money’. with ms merkel looking to finance budget matters, trying to handle a eur 100 billion deficit in her own country and knowing that no member state will cover the deficit created by the brexit negotiations, it is no wonder that is happening. then we get this document and all those arch-federalists here, i am sure you are delighted with the fact that mr juncker and president macron have authored this. for anybody proud of their country and proud of sovereignty, this is not the document that brexit supports and, thankfully, brexit will happen.
madam president, it was decided as expected that insufficient progress had been made in the negotiations. this was a statement of the blatantly obvious. yet when this parliament said the same thing just two weeks prior to that, with most british meps voting in favour of parliament’s resolution, two conservative meps were suspended by their party for daring to tell the truth. this gives us a clue as to why progress is so minimal in the negotiations: the divisions within the governing conservative party. theresa may spends more time negotiating with her party than negotiating with the european union. and some of her party actually want brexit without a deal. they present this as a negotiating tactic. if britain threatens to leave without a deal the eu will give us what we want. yet, as everybody knows, this will be hugely economically damaging to britain. that tactic amounts to holding a gun to your own head and saying, give me what i want or i will shoot myself. it will not work. but they do not actually want it to work. those people want a brexit without a deal because they want to create maximum distance between britain and its neighbouring countries. no matter how damaging that is, no matter how costly that is, that is what they want. nobody should have any illusions as to where the responsibility lies and i think that president tusk was quite right when he said it is up to britain. in his words: ‘it’s up to britain to choose a deal, no deal or no brexit’. you were right, president tusk.
mr president, unsurprisingly, as a brit and as a united kingdom brexit supporter i voted against this. i was able to do so because, if you look at the european court of auditors’ report of 2016, it highlights all sorts of issues which are best summarised as: ‘bloated’, ‘running out of control’, ‘high levels of financial mismanagement and criminality’, and ‘eye-watering levels of bureaucratic costs’. and the detail is there for you to look at yourselves: 3.1% of total payments made in error, meaning that eur 4.2 billion went missing. a huge increase in the amount of money allocated to administering the eu – up to eur 9.4 billion. and then it talks about the future of eu obligations and it talks about a figure of eur 238.8 billion, but admits it could actually be as high as eur 262 billion. when you look at a paper that merely says for the eu that ‘we’re going to pat ourselves on the back for a job well done’, stresses the minimal impact of eu contributions and overlooks all of the financial mismanagement, it is not a paper you can support or vote in support of.
mr president, i welcome this timely debate and vote on minimum income schemes, not least when the british government is making such a hash of universal credit, a policy meant to help but which, in reality, is forcing people further into poverty, debt and even homelessness, a policy that is disincentivising work. it needs to pause and think again. in contrast, a couple of weeks ago i was delighted to visit rapid drop in peterborough in my constituency. from wembley stadium to zagreb airport to tivoli gardens you can find the products of this thriving fire sprinkler business, which does not, however, only improve safety in buildings. it cares about the security of its employees too and is proud to be a living wage company, paying people enough so that they can really get by. its subcontractors, cleaners and maintenance workers get the same treatment too. according to the living wage foundation, more than half of living wage employers report that the scheme has improved both recruitment and retention. it is good for business, good for employees and good for society. a win-win-win situation.
mr president, this report started life as a perfectly reasonable study into the levels of poverty across the european union and ways in which they might be alleviated. due to amendments, the report now demands that a centralised european union fund be set up to run an eu-wide minimum income scheme which would be laid down centrally. it is yet another power-grab by brussels at the expense of the member states, this time set up as a policy against poverty. the report fails to recognise that each member state needs to have different measures in order to meet its own unique challenges and different causes of poverty, which is why i voted against the motion. once britain is outside the european union we will be free to take such measures for ourselves. just one more reason why i believe that brexit will be a success.
mr president, clearly, such a big proportion of the commission work programme lies in the field of migration, fundamental rights and security because that is where our clear challenges lie, and it is appropriate that vice—president timmermans is here today. on migration, after all the difficulties of relocation and after all the work we have done with the commission here in parliament, we now need to seize the challenge of dublin. let’s get the mandate from the council and let’s get the mandate from the member states. so much hard work was done here. this will also release the asylum package qualifications, the asylum support office, and all of the files that come behind this and create a package in the run—up to the european elections in 2019. that is a prize that is worth seizing. on fundamental rights and the rule of law, we want to see a proposal for a democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights pact, and that is something that i know the commissioner will also want to see. on security, which is also close to the hearts of our citizens, etias, ecris and sis ii must also have impact assessments to make better implementation key. we want quality legislation. we do not want legislation just in name, but in quality that will last and that will have privacy at its heart, but which will also be effective for the security of our citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to put on record my thanks to my co-rapporteur siegfried mureşan, and i want to compliment him on his very sensible approach and the excellent work that he has done. i also want to record my thanks to the shadow rapporteurs for their continued support throughout the process. members will recall that, in april this year, this house agreed to increase the european parliament budget for next year by 2.3%. bearing in mind the effect of inflation and the cyclical cost of preparations for the 2019 elections, i thought 2.3% was reasonable and responsible. it has therefore been my intention that an increase of 2.3% be taken as the benchmark against which all other institutions would be measured, and the level be the target for the overall budget increase. i was particularly pleased to note that the council followed our lead when they too set their budget at an increase of just below 2.3%. however, it has not been possible or indeed desirable to peg all individual institution budgets at that level. i have had to take into account a number of exceptional cost demands for 2018. first, the court of justice and the court of auditors. both have significantly increased workloads, as well as a number of significant security issues which will have to be addressed. second, the data protection supervisor. he has been tasked with a new role for which we will have to make provision. thirdly, the question of strategic communications. i am aware that many in this house consider this to be a key priority, and i know that this view is shared by a number of the member states. so, to meet that expectation, we shall have to oppose the cuts which are currently proposed by council when it comes to the coming negotiations. finally, the eu special representative. both parliament and the eeas have been pressing for some time to transfer the cost of special representatives over to the eeas budget. clearly, this would be budget-neutral, and so in our proposals parliament has indicated that it is willing to make provision to cover this transfer in the 2018 budget. i recommend to parliament that these cost increases are both reasonable and justifiable, but i would, however, wish to remind members of the importance of exercising fiscal discipline in order to keep public expenditure under control. to that end, i have identified a number of areas where cost savings could be made. specifically, i would give the example that i propose a freeze on the budgets of the committee of regions and the economic and social committee, and while i am grateful to those groups who have supported this initiative, i am disappointed that the larger groups were not prepared to do so. colleagues, in voting on this budget and resolution, this house will set the mandate for the forthcoming negotiation with the council. i look forward to that negotiation and i look forward to reporting a favourable outcome in november.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, a bit like a merry—go—round at a fairground, everything comes back around – regular as clockwork –once a year. in fact, i could probably save myself a couple of minutes and simply play a recording of last year’s speech, because the issues are pretty much the same this year as they are every year. we know the drill: i could very easily say that these are our taxes, that we voted for brexit, or that the eu is not spending its money efficiently or effectively, but i will not repeat and rehearse all the old arguments. i would note, though, that when politicians focus on the eu budget as a share of gross national income (gni), that does not tell the whole story to the general public because the percentage of government spending is, of course, much higher than the percentage of gni, and of course other government spending may well entail compliance costs with eu legislation. when i spoke on this subject in committee, and indeed it has been the same in this debate today, i pointed out that the language that we use in these debates seems to be always the language of ‘cuts’ – it is all about how much a proposed cut here or a cut there is supposed to be. but, actually, what we are talking about here is still an increase, and the discussion is whether it is an above—inflation increase or a below—inflation increase. what i want to see are genuine cuts, and for two reasons. one is that, with brexit coming, there will, at one time or another – depending on how negotiations go – eventually be a shortfall. two, i believe that on many projects it is just better and more efficient to cut out the middleman and for nation states to do things directly themselves. for saying that in committee, i was accused of populism, so i thought i would take a look at the word ‘populism’. i looked it up in the dictionary, and it tells me that populism is support for the concerns of ordinary people and the quality of appealing to – or being aimed at – ordinary people. it just strikes me that only in this place could caring about ordinary people possibly be construed as being some kind of insult.
mr president, i acknowledge that this is a budget about normal budgetary procedures and is in a pre-brexit scenario. for my part, i believe it should be directed at growth, jobs and prosperity, and not the usual list of unnecessary items. however, in voting to leave the european union, the british electorate declared that brussels could no longer demand their taxes or dictate the spend. our legal obligations to the eu budget should end in march 2019. that is not to say that we will cut and run: we should honour existing commitments under a fair and reasonable settlement. however, this cannot be done in isolation. the block on trade talks is about coercion and not cooperation. it is detrimental to mutual progress, and we should find ways of moving forward.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate both rapporteurs. i think we are all well aware that the months and few years ahead could be quite rough, and we will have quite a rocky road to travel. not only is the overall budget going to be under pressure, but with the uk leaving, the remaining 27 will probably also have problems, as the uk may have. as it stands, with the uk’s departure the cap budget is going to be hit particularly hard. that is something i would certainly want to see put right, because this is just one of the many areas that the 27 member states will have to face up to. however, i have always put on record that europe, through the budget, has been extremely positive for my region of northern ireland, and i hope that will continue. but i fail to see how that can continue if the uk is not here to represent its regions. i hope that this message will get back to mrs may, that when she makes her proposals for continuing aid it is taken into account. because if you do not have representation it is very difficult to make sure matters are managed properly.
blue-card question. – in the annual budget report, the council proposes to cut eur 240 million in payments, and you call another eur 750 million proposed by the council unjustified. normally economic liberals want to cut taxes. in the european parliament, they want to do the opposite. guy verhofstadt in the 1980s and 1990s was called the ‘baby thatcher of belgium’, and he believes now that we need special european supranational taxes. surely you would agree with me that taxpayers in europe are fed up having their pockets picked just to pay for more grandiose and mad projects? surely you agree with me, sir?
rapporteur. – mr president, the annual budget is always a complex process and this 2018 budget, being the last year before brexit and the last before the set of european elections in 2019, will bring its own unique challenges. i want to thank colleagues for their comments this afternoon and i have taken on board the views that they have expressed. it serves to remind us what a wide range of spending priorities there are in this parliament and it serves to remind us of the strength of expectations there are within the committees. tomorrow we vote on a mandate. it is a mandate which will take us into the budget negotiations with the council. i hope that we have a clear mandate because then we, the rapporteurs, will go into negotiations united, we go into the negotiations with a clear set of priorities and we go into the negotiations with the determination to ensure that we deliver value for money, and added value, not just to the member states but to european citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am in the unusual position for a ukip mep to be in favour of this proposal; the proposal being to refuse to grant a discharge to the eu council. every year, the parliament looks through the books of each of the eu institutions and agencies to approve them, and every year, these bodies comply with the process, with the exception of the council. why does the council not comply? the eu treaties may say that the parliament only grants discharge to the commission, but i think there is a moral obligation to comply with what is essentially a transparency process. when you look at why the council may not want to go along with this, you see that just last week, on the day that brexit negotiations continued, the council put out a public tender for 4000 bottles of champagne. well, mr president, perhaps we in britain could have our share of that; i think it works out at about 500 bottles by our budget contribution to celebrate brexit. we would even settle for 148 bottles, if we divided equally between the countries. that would be enough to celebrate brexit! but seriously, when half of europe is in some form of crisis and with austerity biting, you are ordering four thousand bottles of champagne. this needs to be stopped; this needs to be audited, this needs to be looked at by the parliament, and we must have this transparency over the budget and use of taxpayers’ money in this council.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it is very important that workers can be confident that they are working in a safe environment and that their exposure to carcinogens is very carefully controlled. so the first thing we must ensure is that exposure limits are actually measurable in the workplace. now the limits originally set out in the commission proposal were the result of many years of detailed work including evaluations and fitness checks, and frankly it was easy for me, coming from the uk, to agree to the majority of the proposed limits, as we already have these lower limits in britain. but as well as enforcing the exposure limits, member states should be encouraging businesses to strive for the lowest levels possible, lower, in fact, than the levels set in legislation. i am really concerned by claims that a consequence of brexit will be a race to the bottom for workers’ rights and health and safety standards in the uk. but in fact the uk has the highest health and safety standards. we have one of the lowest fatality rates among member states, second only to malta, and our rates of work related ill-health, and of workers reporting that their jobs risk their health, are lower than most other member states’. so, to conclude, there is an established and rigorous process for setting limits to ensure that they are evidence-based, proportionate, measurable and achievable, and as policymakers we must respect this.
mr president, i want workplaces to be safe, irrespective of their setting. i want to maintain the eu’s reputation as a setter of very high standards, but i guess that on the day when this parliament voted to disregard the overwhelming majority of scientific evidence and restrict the authorisation of glyphosate, perhaps it should come as no surprise that we are being asked to vote to lower acceptable limits on chromium 6, which similarly have no scientific basis. in order to ensure ongoing protection and confidence in the system, and that is what this legislation is all about, we should ensure that decisions on substances and levels are robust and not political. they should be based on the scientific evidence. i therefore regret the inclusion of this item in an otherwise largely sensible and commendable trilogue conclusion and i can only come to the conclusion that, sadly, i will not be able to vote in favour. i will have to abstain on that basis.
mr president, i welcome this measure as far as it goes and congratulate parliament’s rapporteur on a good piece of work which extends the scope to reprotoxics, which was a good thing to do, and which i understand meant that she felt it could not be extended further. but i have to say that we have to do something – if not in this measure, then in other measures – but we have to do something to address the exposure of healthcare workers to the dangers of the carcinogenic drugs that they administer. there are hundreds and thousands of healthcare workers in the united kingdom alone dying from leukaemia, suffering miscarriages and having appalling healthcare outcomes that are entirely preventable. the technology to prevent this exists quite easily, and is only not happening because of cost. that has to change. it is indefensible.
mr president, 100 000 people die each year in europe because of work—related cancer diseases. whilst the commission proposal is a good first step, we must broaden the scope of the directive, as suggested by the rapporteur, to allow for the inclusion reprotoxic substances, a growing problem in workplaces – especially for women. the french agency for food, environment, safety and health indicated that 180 000 french workers have been exposed to such substances, which can cause all manner of reproductive issues for both female and male workers. improving workers’ health protection by reducing occupational exposure to chemical agents that may cause cancer or mutations should take into account specific issues and real situations, including adopting a gender perspective. i particularly want to highlight the role of trade unions and workers’ federations, who have been fighting for years on this issue and have provided excellent evidence for the drafting of this report and the preparation of this debate.
mr president, protecting people in the workplace is of the utmost importance, and while much has improved, 53% of work-related deaths are still caused by occupational cancer. in the days before the eu, it was the trade unions who stood up to protect workers from carcinogenic substances like asbestos, and now – thankfully – there is a directive with specific exposure limits. as a proud union man myself, i want to thank them for the role they have played and continue to play. so about this report, which places limit values and 13 further carcinogens: given that around 50 carcinogens account for 80% of total exposure in the workplace, it is very welcome that the commission plans to introduce limits for additional substances. regular healthcare checks after exposure must continue for as long as it is necessary. finally, it is my hope that workers in manufacturing, construction and many other sectors will continue to be protected after brexit because, after all, they are the lifeblood of our economy.
madam president, roma, across europe, including in my country, face countless problems such as unemployment, poor access to public services, notably education, health and housing, multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion. this situation has worsened in the uk since the referendum with roma children in manchester, for example, too afraid to play outdoors because of racist attacks. i fully support soraya post’s position and agree that the problems related to roma discrimination must be addressed through a rights-based approach. we are talking about the respect of the human rights of roma people who have been living in europe for centuries. the eu has a responsibility to go beyond the social inclusion aspect. we need a global strategy and a transversal approach if we really want to make a difference. i want to focus particularly on rome women who find themselves at the intersection between anti-gypsyism and sexism. as a founder of the elie wiesel parliamentary network to raise awareness of genocide, i particularly welcome soraya’s call for a truth commission on the roma holocaust.
blue-card question. – it seems from your speech that you seem incredibly uncomfortable with monitoring and understanding who it is who is entering europe. if this is the case, i wonder: in your own home, would you open the doors to anybody without knowing who they were? surely you need to know who is coming, why, how long they are going to stay and what their purpose is? is this not just a natural thing, that people all over europe would legitimately ask for their politicians to be pushing for them? (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the proposals for an entry/exit system using biometric data is not an unreasonable one on the face of it. the us has got a system and britain has got a system already, and it is not unreasonable for european countries to want to have their own, similar systems. this proposal is for the schengen area, of which britain is not a member, so technically it will not affect us – but in reality it will. when britain leaves the european union – when that happy day arrives – then we will actually be a third country. biometric data on our citizens will be gathered and will be shared with the eu’s member states and its crime agencies. this biometric data can be accessed by all eu countries, as well as by those crime agencies. some of those countries are deeply and institutionally corrupt and untrustworthy. the eu has been building its legal institutions and crime agencies for some years, and a few years ago i published a short study which explained how that could easily develop into an eu police state. ukip is not opposed to countries having biometric data systems, but they should be under the control of national governments, and they should only be shared with foreign states where we can be reasonably assured that that information will not be misused. we certainly cannot say that about this system.
madam president, it seems the european union has developed an alarming set of contradictions. it was only a few years ago that angela merkel and other european leaders said ‘come ye, come ye’, and the great waves of migration began, and we have seen the consequences as the infrastructure in italy, greece and hungary is crumbling before our eyes. and now it says ‘oh no, there is a problem, so we need this entry/exist system’, and mr juncker gave the game away at his state of the union speech that he wants a ‘united states of europe’, he wants a country called europe, and this is just the first part of the plan. but there is the other contradiction when you say you want borders at the european level but then you have the schengen zone, which means that there is an internal free—for—all. it seems the european union is riddled with panic. it is seeing parties that love country, nation and sovereignty rise across the european union, and it hasn’t got a clue how to stop them. i am just glad that we are walking away from this, and i encourage many others to follow our lead.
madam president, given recent events it is right to consider measures that allow for the smooth passage of legal, short-term travellers while continuing to enhance the security of european borders. i am confident that in negotiating brexit, the united kingdom government will be keen to work with its european partners to ensure continued cooperation to keep our borders safe and secure. my constituents in northern ireland know well the scourge of terrorism. close cooperation between partners, both within the eu and beyond, whether through interpol, europol or on a bilateral basis, is vital in building our security. when we consider the last century or even more recent times, there have been few more reliable and willing contributors to the defence of europe than the united kingdom. i trust that colleagues here in brussels recognise this and will work closely with the british government to keep that mutually beneficial relationship beyond brexit.
blue-card question. – you spoke a great deal, madam, about cases not being brought to court and cases being blocked. you are well aware that the press are now talking about cases of sexual harassment in this parliament. the press have picked that up. i was made aware several months ago on the grapevine, by a very reliable source, that this was going to hit the newspapers very soon, so much so that i actually mentioned it on the daily politics programme some months ago. and then it did not hit the press and nothing happened. my equally reliable source told me that the proceedings had been in some way impeded and blocked by mr schultz, who had been instrumental in intervening and stopping that happening. are you aware of that and will this house take that into account in this discussion?
madam president, from media attention this week we finally know that there is a problem with sexual harassment in this chamber. but the focus, seemingly, is on sexual harassment of women by male meps only. that totally ignores – and i mean ignores – what could be going on. i am only suggesting, but i understand it does go on. therefore, sexual harassment should not be gender-specific. we have got to address this. ms malmström, the rapporteur, spoke very eloquently about what needs to happen, but what is clear is that we do not currently have a process with which individuals and alleged perpetrators can engage, and ask for a suitable investigation. i believe that the vote we are going to have tomorrow morning is bringing this forward too quickly. we have not addressed sufficiently the scale of what is going on and the nature of what is going on. i would suggest we go forward on this with responsibility given to the quaestors.
madam chairman, the culture in the entertainment world seems to be that those – particularly women – who want to work in the industry, are preyed upon by powerful individuals, mostly men, who can make or break their careers. the term ‘casting couch’ is so well known that it has entered the english language. so this is not a new concept, and i’d like to thank all those brave women who have come out in the ‘me too’ campaign. i would particularly like to thank the brave employees of this parliament who have spoken out in recent days. it is really important, i believe, to seize the momentum, and do something in our own workplace and i’d like to see the resolution concentrate on that aspect. the structure is in place and i’d like to thank our quaestor, ms bearder, for sending round a note yesterday that showed us that the structure is there. but people still don’t feel confident to use that structure, and that’s the real problem: that we don’t take it seriously enough. so if there’s fear of losing a job we can actually individually as meps do something, certainly for our accredited parliamentary assistants. i’d like to pledge here and now, i, as a member of this parliament: if there is an assistant out there who feels they are going to lose their job, come and work in my office then temporarily, i will offer you a safe haven. and i’d like other members to join me in that pledge.
madam president, sexual harassment is, shockingly, all too common in today’s society and in this european parliament. whilst statistically women are over five times as likely as men to experience sexual assault, it is important to note that sexual harassment and abuse affects both men and women. we have all heard the stories and rumours that have been going on for many years. the very place that claims to legislate against this sort of disgusting behaviour is turning a blind eye to its practice. the idea that meps or staff are using their positions of power to perpetrate abuse is shameful and unacceptable. i want some clarification. can the members of the bureau tell us all they know about their in camera meeting at the end of last year regarding 15 meps who are accused of sexual harassment? these files should be opened up to public scrutiny. please action this immediately.
madam president, all forms of harassment are wrong and must be stopped, but sexual harassment is particularly pernicious. this parliament has a committee that deals with harassment cases when meps are involved, and i sit on that committee. we have a constant stream of cases, but coming forward is very distressing for the victims. disclosure is a professional and financial risk for them, so victims don’t come forward and their cases go unreported. so we don’t see the full extent of the case. the situation is not acceptable. we cannot be complacent. we must get better – better at preventing harassment in the first place by introducing mandatory mep training, better at encouraging the victims to come forward by giving guarantees that they will not lose their jobs, and better at acting swiftly once the investigation has been completed, with sanctions imposed against the meps. we have a long way to go, as do many large institutions. this parliament must demonstrate that we are a fair, safe and respectful place for all to come and work at.
blue-card question. – sexual harassment should never be tolerated, and i am sure you agree with me. whether in the streets of cologne or in the corridors of power in brussels it is absolutely intolerable, regardless of sexual orientation. however, some liberals here are in favour of stereotyping. ms vautmans, did you not say something that was, i believe, reported in ‘politico’ – that sexual harassment is commonplace in southern and eastern europe? is that not stereotyping people? i do not think that is quite right. if a right-wing eurosceptic had said such a thing, everyone would go crazy here. would you take that back? [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, like many, i was shocked by the harvey weinstein scandal. i was shocked by the violence of the stories told by the victims, but i was not surprised. some people have said they were surprised by the number of victims who subsequently spoke out online, using the ‘me too’ hashtag, but i was not surprised. most women and girls have been victims of sexual harassment or assault at some point in their lives. the fact that this recent crop of appalling revelations comes from within my own sector, the creative industries, is doubly distressing. the myth of the casting couch was never a myth, but rather an institutional practice which has its parallels in the boardrooms and staff rooms of all workplaces, including both the public and private sector and in the community and voluntary sector too. trade unions have a particularly important role to play in establishing systems and support for reporting and dealing with abuse, but the education of boys and men should play an important role in the fight against sexual harassment and abuse. instead of telling girls how to dress or behave, we should educate boys about consent.
madam president, a recent eu survey on harassment and abuse gave some shocking findings, not least that 55% of women have experienced sexual harassment. it must be called out for what it is: a brutal form of discrimination, a basic assault on human dignity, and both a cause and a consequence of persistent inequalities between men and women. i welcome this debate today, but it must form part of a long-term, serious effort to tackle this scourge because there is a long road ahead. sexual harassment knows no class or culture and is not confined to the home or the workplace. as such, it is the job of every employer, family member, colleague and friend to stand up for all people who are affected. for our part, here in this chamber, we must ensure that the information, the support and a zero-tolerance approach in dealing with this are in place. be it in hollywood or in our own communities across the european union, including my constituency in the uk, sexual harassment is a cancer that must be stopped.
mr president, today i have voted for those elements of the budget that provide strong support to the programmes, from which the united kingdom benefits most and which contribute to a strong, sustainable and stable europe. the parliament’s budget sets the framework for further negotiations between the european union institutions. i have voted to restore cuts proposed by the council, which fell disproportionately on areas from which world-leading uk institutions gain substantial benefit. i voted to support labour party priorities, such as tackling youth unemployment, strengthening research and boosting programmes such as horizon 2020, from which uk organisations are leading beneficiaries. the budget proposals, for which i have voted, continue to strengthen the eu’s negotiating response to the challenges of migration and security. i have voted against increasing the administrative budgets of the parliament and commission. i believe there is considerable scope for savings, not least through the creation of a single-seat parliament. i have also voted for greater transparency for meps, the labour mps, implement ourselves, if we can, you can.
mr president, i voted against this proposal. attempts to shore up the external borders of the european union are a classic case of trying to close the stable well after the horse has bolted. the inability of the european union to shore up its borders during the migrant crisis has ensured that there are already millions of migrants in the european union, broadly unchecked and unverified, able to float around the continent causing potentially great societal damage. this attempt by the european union to introduce chip technology at the borders will cost billions, be a nightmare to manage and leave the security of the european union wide open to cyberattack. and what’s the point, anyway? the migrants are already here.
mr president, the issue of people smuggling and illegal immigration in the mediterranean is, in essence, a simple one. the first step that we must undertake is to ask why this happens. firstly, we must acknowledge the phenomenon of economic migration. european nations are wealthier and generally more stable and enjoy greater social benefits. by contrast, many african nations are poor, some politically unstable, many with lower health-care standards, and little chance of social benefits. secondly, there are vast amounts of money to be made by people smuggling. indeed, the last europol report estimated that turnover in this area was between eur three and six billion per annum. this has led to an increase in modern slavery. something has to be done. with no effective control over our borders we remain vulnerable to terrorism. also, we must address the increasing detrimental health issues, such as the fact that in 2014, 80% of tuberculosis sufferers in london were born abroad and a third of london boroughs were in that year’s world health organisation high incidence threshold. this necessarily contributes to the greater pressure on our own health services. secondly, we must ensure that people smuggling is halted, the perpetrators’ vehicles confiscated and destroyed, and any ngos found to have assisted in this despicable trade must lose all public funding and, like the people caught people smuggling, also face prosecution. illegal immigrants are something very different to refugees. they should be turned away at the borders as a measure to send a message back to their homeland that such a journey will not be rewarded. only by taking such a stance will we then be able to address the issue of support for genuine refugees.
mr president, irregular or illegal immigration is a political disaster. it undermines the positive case for controlled immigration, it is corrosive of public trust and it rewards law-breakers, as opposed to honest applicants who have stuck to the rules. it follows that facilitating or encouraging, even indirectly, the flow of irregular migration is the height of political irresponsibility. yet this is what many senior european politicians have done: from mrs merkel inviting everyone to germany and then seeking to strong-arm her neighbours into bailing her out, to those campaigning against the dublin rules that quite reasonably expect asylum applicants to lodge their claims in the first safe country they reach. the answer to the mediterranean migration crisis is not to force other eu countries to take in those being sheltered by italy or greece. that will merely add to the pull factors which already lure so many young men from africa and the middle east to europe. no, the solution is to intercept the boats coming from libya and elsewhere, and to escort them back to their points of embarkation. irregular migrants need to be seen to be losers – not losers of their lives, like so many have been in recent years – but losers in their battle to circumvent the rule of law. only that way will public confidence be restored.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs mr tang and mr karas on their reports. securitised products can be incredibly complicated financial products, yet in the past they had an overly simplified reputation and consequently enjoyed widespread use. post-financial crisis, the use of securitisation has severely diminished across europe, however. i therefore commend the effort shown by this parliament to encourage understanding and rebuild trust and confidence in these instruments. i am pleased that we have managed to bring this report closer to international standards and ensure that the eu is not placed at a competitive disadvantage globally. however, i personally believe that we could have been even more ambitious in this proposal and, indeed, with the capital markets union project as a whole, as this is an area in which our level of achievement does not so far seem to match up to our rhetoric. for cmu to work, it needs decisive action, not purely discussion and then compromise. we need an overhaul of national tax laws that favour debt over equity-financing, a reaffirmation of a commitment to global, supervisory cooperation and standards globally. furthermore, a cultural shift here in europe from savings to investment is critical. the aims of cmu need to guide our hand in all ongoing legislation. we need consistency across all legislative files. the emir review, for example, needs to be very specifically about finding solutions to the unintended consequences and burdens that we have placed upon non-financial companies. therefore, the classification of securitisation special purpose entities as financial counterparties, for example, as recently released in the commission draft report, seems to contradict and threaten what we have achieved in the securitisation legislation. we need to be careful going forwards.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is now nearly a decade since the financial crisis devastated european economies. at the heart of that crisis was the process of repackaging debt to turn it into new assets, a highly lucrative business, but one that created risks to our financial system when unscrupulous traders bundled bad debts with good, kept the profits and socialised the risks. today we are debating an attempt by the european institutions to restart this process of securitisation and to give it a seal of approval as sts: simple, transparent securitisation. sadly, most in the parliament and council of ministers who have agreed on this new legislation seem not to have learned the lessons of the crisis. greens attempted to limit the damage securitisation might do by proposing that banks share much more of the risk of the loans that they sell off to ensure that they keep adequate skin in the game. they should be discouraged from investing in each other securitisations and should ensure that the products are as simple as possible. this would mean that investors can access the highest-quality information about what is actually in the box, including to what extent the securitisation contributes to sustainability goals. rather than strengthening standards against a repetition of past problems, the already unsatisfactory proposal from the commission was watered down in favour of banks and other lenders of specific kinds of loans, specifically car loans, which many have warned may represent a subprime—style bubble. negotiations with the council, where member states demonstrated even less concern for the safety of the financial system, delivered a result that represents a bad deal for ordinary citizens. this legislation is the latest example of political amnesia and regulatory rollback with the eu’s political leadership favouring the narrow interests of an oversized financial system over the need to promote financial stability, funding to entrepreneurs and small businesses and quality jobs in the real economy. we regret that it will be passed tomorrow and we will certainly vote against it as a group.
mr president, we have heard that 10 years ago a major us bank announced losses of usd 8.4 billion in a quarter due to subprime mortgages. the following months were the start of the subprime crisis due to the meltdown of securitisation products affecting european banks. the rest, we all know, is history. but here we are today debating a new securitisation proposal that should ensure the impact of any future crisis is limited. so my congratulations to the rapporteurs, paul tang and othmar karas, for getting this complex regulation agreed. i do welcome the fact that it makes financial instruments safer and more transparent, and that there will be greater standardisation. this is a real step forward, and it ensures that an important source of capital can support smes in the european economy. it will also bring more substance to the cmu initiative. so there are three points that stand out for me: a new macroprudential framework to ensure efficient oversight of the securitisation market to detect new bubbles; the creation of a data repository to increase transparency for investors and making it mandatory for insurance to make the information public; and a more sustainable financial system. nonetheless, commissioner, i believe there are issues that you still need to be addressing. how do you see the impact of this new regulation in the context of brexit, given the high level of activity that takes place in the uk and how confident are you that history will not repeat itself, given the trends in the us towards deregulation?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, it has been clear for some time that europe has been keen to open trade talks with australia and new zealand. i am firmly of the belief that ambitious, balanced and comprehensive free trade arrangements with australia and new zealand can be of mutual benefit to both sides. however, any deal must respect the sensitivities of european agriculture, and i welcome the fact that the committee on agriculture and rural development has the opportunity to come forward with this opinion. producers across europe are not anti-free trade. all they ask is a level playing field, treating as sensitive products that would be exposed by eu producers to excessive unsustainable pressure. for instance, by introducing transitional periods, appropriate quotas and factoring in respect for seasonal cycles, which we expect to see particularly for the lamb sector. can i also say that agriculture cannot be made the bargaining chip of these negotiations. the commission needs to keep the european agri-foods sector and meps informed of all aspects of negotiations, and i thank my shadow rapporteurs for australia and new zealand and mr andrieu for putting forward these opinions. may i say to ms quisthoudt-rowohl – whom i have known for a long time in this chamber as she entered the same time as i did, that, although she’s not listening at the moment – that she doesn’t have to fear agriculture as much as she thinks.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr. president, it seems odd that only the ecr group seems to recognise that australia and new zealand are different countries with separate trade deals, and not one nation as this debate suggests. i would not advise calling an australian a new zealander, nor a new zealander an australian, especially not if they play rugby for the all blacks, but i do welcome doing free trade agreements with both these great, independent and democratic trading nations. it is well overdue. now existing bilateral arrangements and regulatory cooperation make the case for a deeper agreement to be negotiated relatively easily. i note that the new zealand deal may be based on around 80% of the recent canada or ceta trade deal, which is considered to be a gold standard. my group does take issue with two key points in the report though. firstly, the inclusion of a sanctions-based mechanism on the trade and sustainable development – or tsd – chapter. this is an ineffective approach which discourages goodwill and damages engagement in negotiations. secondly, the exclusion of the so-called ‘sensitive’ agricultural sectors from the report. australia and new zealand have the right to promote their agricultural exports, and it is a sorry state of affairs when the eu embraces protectionism. our partners have made it clear that they would enter negotiations with an open mind and it is a shame the european commission is not doing the same. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, yes trade talks with australia and new zealand will be a litmus test for the eu and the uk to see how each fares after the so-called divorce. it is no surprise that the eu has chosen these countries to kick off post-brexit talks and wants to complete a trade deal as soon as possible. i suspect it may be a case of one-upmanship. as it is said, if you cannot do trade with new zealand, you cannot do it with anyone, as new zealand is one of the most liberal trading nations in the world. in fact, no other country has so many mutual regulatory agreements with the eu already in place than new zealand, preparing the ground for a swift and a smooth fta. no other country that is but the uk. like our self-determining commonwealth cousins we are also champions of free trade. yet the uk starts from a position of even greater commonality with the eu, following decades of harmonised legislation. so do a good deal with new zealand and australia. prove to the world that the eu is serious about free trade. but be warned, you must also do a good deal with britain. the eyes of the world are watching, and if another nation sees petty, preferential or protectionist treatment to spite a britain that simply wants to govern itself, as indeed they do in wellington and canberra, it will be brussels that is judged, not brexit.
mr president, this for me is a bittersweet moment. i have argued in this parliament for over 20 years for free trade agreements with australia and with new zealand, and they have finally arrived. negotiations are about to begin, and by the time these negotiations are complete, i am afraid that my country will no longer be part of the european union and thus unable to take advantage of the free trade agreement. it is also a bittersweet moment though because the committee on international trade – of all committees – has, in my opinion, produced quite a protectionist resolution, and i hope we can amend some of that tomorrow. it is quite right, as colleagues have said, that we should want to defend certain sensitive products, make sure we have quotas on certain products, and make sure we negotiate safeguards for certain products, but to ask for a whole sector to be excluded from negotiations is a crazy way to begin negotiations, especially if that sector is the key sector for our negotiating partners. why would the australians or the new zealanders make concessions to us on gis, on non-agricultural market access or on sustainable development, which is so important to my group, if we are not even prepared to start talking about agriculture? it is a cloud—cuckooland position to have. (applause.)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, all member states have very distinct legal cultures. the legal system of the uk is very different to the rest of continental europe. a blanket policy cannot work in this union. it saddens me to see that this report is calling on the commission to urge member states to ensure the strict enforcement of eu rules on the free movement of persons. the eu cannot force an eu migration policy on countries which are already dealing with very difficult internal problems, such as housing and financial commitments. i also note with concern that the emphasis of this report is on bringing sovereign nation states ‘back into line’. the report’s references to ensuring the eu institutions themselves comply with eu law could almost be obligatory. this is not a periphery matter. this report, like the eu institutions themselves, has failed to consider who guards the guards.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, any operator that is responsible for damage to the environment must be held accountable for their actions. however, the determination of the accountability should be down to the member state. i am pleased to see that the eld does not prevent member states from adopting stricter rules – but who are you to grant that permission? you mention the establishment of a secondary liability regime based upon the systems already adopted by several member states; one of those being the uk. but why a secondary regime? this is typical of the eu implementing more and more unnecessary legislation. the report calls for the consideration of a european fund for the remedying of environmental damage. may i remind you the eu does not have its own money? the money that you waste comes from the member states. so if you propose this fund who is going to pay for it? because remember, one of your largest contributors will soon be leaving.
mr president, i think we need to remind ourselves that this is an implementation report and that the principles behind it are not at question. this is not an opportunity for members to out—green each other here in the chamber; it is actually a consideration of how well this is working. i understand the temptation to try to extend the scope to air, water and many other areas; these are issues that we all work on day in and day out, but this would not be necessary if these core legislative acts – those for example on the ambient air quality directive – contained clear access to justice provisions based on the aarhus convention that member states currently pay only the slightest lip service to. you cannot identify shortcomings with implementation and then make it more wide—ranging, less specific, more complex and harder to implement. it simply does not make sense. i would simply like to remind members that the impact study attached to this report says: ‘stakeholders’ comments during this study indicate that they are not likely to accept the creation of a fund or scheme for a wide range of reasons.....’, and so it goes on. so why deliberately put that in there when, actually, there are other routes we could take that would be much more effective. giving citizens access to justice to me is the simplest and easiest way of doing that.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, last week the enf group put forward the situation in south africa as one of the topics for urgent debate on cases of breaches of human rights. unfortunately, this proposal was rejected, but the situation remains extremely serious. i was in south africa on monday 30 october, when thousands of south africans were standing up to crime. they were mourning together, wearing black, in memory of those who have died in violent crimes, including farmers. at least 72 people have died in farm attacks in south africa since the start of this year. being a farmer in south africa is one of the most dangerous professions in the world and it is not just farmers who are at risk. every day, an average of 52 people are murdered in south africa, and there are huge concerns about the functioning of the police. strangely enough, this does not seem to be an issue for the international community. my proposal is to have a debate on this issue, on a statement from the commission and the council, as the first item on the agenda this evening. however, i do not actually hold out much hope because members are just going to vote against it because it is us. think about the human rights atrocities that are happening across the globe – and that includes south africa – and i challenge you to turn down this proposal!
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, whilst many in this place wish that the democratic tragedy which has befallen catalonia would just go away, this is not the time to act like the proverbial ostrich by burying our heads in the sand. we have witnessed the blatant misuse of the european arrest warrant for political purposes, something that my party, ukip, has warned about for many years. if this parliament really does have any teeth, then colleagues will vote in support of my motion to add a debate on the situation of democracy and the rule of law in spain to this week’s agenda. if we do not do so, then never again will members have the moral right to preach about self-determination and democratic rights, not least when the situation in malta and poland will be debated this week. so the argument for refusing on the grounds of avoiding interference in the home affairs of a member state does not stand. what is good for the goose must be good for the gander, as we say my country. as i have said before, the eyes of the world are on us and it is high time to put the concerns of the catalonian people before the internal politics of some of the political groups in this chamber. i also call for this vote to be roll-called.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, there is a human rights abuse occurring within the borders of the european union itself. eu citizens who work for the european patents office are in dispute with the epo but are being denied legal redress. this is a contravention of their most basic human right. courts in germany and the netherlands have found substance in their claim, but the epo hides behind its sovereign immunity to avoid coming to terms. now this is bad enough, but the eu is about to hand over judicial functions to the epo under the unified patent convention. we have to establish that no organisation within the eu has the right to abrogate observance of citizens’ basic human rights. so i urge the house to support this motion for a debate, and i believe that you are going to grant a roll-call vote, mr president, to decide whether this is added to the agenda or not.
mr president, we are having this debate today because progress on road safety in europe has been much too slow – we all know this. the commission has been expected for some time to put forward revisions to vehicle safety, pedestrian protection and infrastructure safety rules, as well as new targets and measures to reduce serious road injuries. all of these have, quite frankly, been unacceptably delayed. as the commissioner said, in the meantime we have 70 road deaths every day on roads in the eu. in the uk, the latest annual figures show a 4% increase in road deaths from the previous year. as a representative from london, i do want to focus on urban areas. the commissioner is right: what we actually need is a comprehensive approach. technical vehicle safety measures are important but are only part of the answer. pedestrians and cyclists are particularly at risk, as the statistics show all too clearly. yes, we need our passengers and goods to be able to move around our cities, but prioritising pedestrians and cyclists and segregating them from other traffic wherever possible must be our ultimate goal.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, throughout the uk and in many other countries throughout the west, many christians have been denied the right to wear a simple expression of their faith, such as a crucifix, in public life. the right to hold and express faith is a fundamental human right which must be protected and defended equally. the uk was founded on a judaeo-christian culture and whilst we respect and appreciate the contribution of all, this must be respected. but the trials and tribulations of christians in many countries throughout the west pale in comparison to what many must face on a daily basis throughout other parts of the world. the persecution of christians, shia and other religions and ethnic minorities, during the rise of the islamic state was well publicised. however, we must be constantly wary of persecution of christians: it is still [going on] and many will be unable to get appropriate assistance after being displaced by conflict throughout the region. as the terror of islamic state rule is rolled back, we must ensure that the seeds of future conflict and societal discontent are averted and reprisal attacks are not carried out. this may not be an easy task, but the cycle of shifting persecution as power changes hands must be broken. as these countries are rebuilt, the place of christians and their rights must be protected. the recent political instability caused by the sudden resignation of hariri as prime minister of lebanon is a sharp warning that the shia-sunni war propagated by saudi arabia and iran could be spreading into the country, and we must ensure that minorities are not marginalised in any political fallout from the future developments in this country. christianity is an ancient religion with firm roots in the middle east. the place of christians throughout the region must be protected. if the countries of the middle east are ever to get past this cycle of religious persecution, they must develop a more inclusive model of national identity that extends beyond religion and is fully inclusive and respectful of all minorities who deserve to practise their faith free from persecution, and in many cases, free from threats to their lives.
mr president, yesterday, in the united kingdom, communities and families paused to remember those across the nation who had laid down their lives in defence of freedom. through their sacrifice we, like past generations, enjoy the benefits of a fair and democratic way of life. we are afforded fundamental freedoms of thought, belief, opinion and expression and, without restriction or recrimination, we are able to attend a religious place of worship. how often do we take these liberties for granted? open doors estimates that every month, across our world, 322 christians are killed because of their faith, and 772 forms of violence are committed against christians. these are shocking statistics but we must ask ourselves, are we doing enough? we have a responsibility to provide a beacon of hope to those who continue to suffer daily – to support those whose sacrifice has not yet been translated into freedom for themselves and their families. and national governments must renew their commitment to these basic liberties in their dealings and discussions with countries across the world. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – ms dodds, the king of morocco, commander of the faithful and a descendant of the prophet muhammad, protects the rights of christians in morocco. would you say, madam, that he is a fine example to muslims throughout the world, and that this is the sort of leadership that we should see in the muslim world: protection of christians by muslims?
blue-card answer. – thank you mr coburn. i think that all of us in this house must be very concerned about the persecution and, indeed, some would say the genocide of christians, throughout the middle east. we have only to look at the sights in syria, in iraq, and see the devastation of christian communities. indeed, i have been pleased to actually meet and talk with some of those christians and hear their stories of persecution, of death and destruction, and i think it is incumbent upon this house and these institutions to make sure that these terrible atrocities are raised on a continuous basis and that we deal with them in our discussions with these countries. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the war and the trouble and terrorism in northern ireland is really about a vicious terrorist campaign to push a people into a united ireland who do not give their consent to such a way forward. thankfully, we are in better times, and since my colleague is from germany, i must say i visited berlin last week. i visited wittenberg, the place of the reformation in germany, and it was a delight to see the memorials there to martin luther and 500 years of the reformation, which has done so much to transform our society and which did so much to transform germany.
mr president, a christian genocide is being waged across the middle east by the followers of islam. every year since 2005, 90 000 christians have been eliminated from this planet. the names of their attackers are well known: al-qaeda, isis, the muslim brotherhood. but whilst christians are being burned across the world, the world’s atheistic elites wring their hands and turn away. they would rather discuss issues of migrants across the globe, or what president trump is doing, rather than concern themselves about the murder, rape, torture of christians across the middle east. just as the islamic terrorists removed jews from 1948 to 1970, with 850 000 removed from the middle east, we have now seen a reduction of 1.5 million to 275 000 christians in iraq. if the elites do not do anything to protect our christian communities then it is time for christians themselves to rise up, come together once more and fight the islamic terrorists who are trying to destroy them.
mr president, we are at a turning point in history, with our european societies facing many challenges and transitions. demographic upheaval must be dealt with in the broader context of sustainability. responding to democratic challenges requires collective debate about how we can achieve social justice and guarantee a fair and inclusive model for everyone – a model which puts at the forefront not only economic development but, more importantly, the collective and individual well-being of citizens. touching upon all the key policy areas – such as employment, poverty reduction, urban and rural development, connectivity and support for smes – cohesion policy is indeed the right tool to address those challenges. i particularly welcome the focus on women and their role in societies, as well as the call to use the fund for refugees’ inclusion. i would add that, in a fast-changing world characterised by increasing digitisation, robotisation and automation, a future-proof sustainable agenda should be included in a broader reflection on occupational literacy.
mr president, nuclear fusion is the holy grail of energy research, with the potential to deliver the energy equivalent of 10 000 tons of coal from the atoms in this small bottle of water, and with no co2 emissions. commercial fusion now has a realistic future but that is a future at risk because of brexit. the uk atomic energy authority operates the world’s largest magnetic fusion experiment – the joint european torus (jet) – with scientists coming from all over europe. this project is far too big for any one nation state alone. it is the classic example of the economies of scale we achieve through our european union. this world-leading research facility is in my constituency and you cannot simply put it on a truck. i hope that mr barnier and ms may are both listening. jet needs europe, europe needs jet and the uk’s place is in euratom.
mr president, two months ago the headlines screamed of the crisis of cancellations at ryanair. yet i fear the calculation that ryanair bosses made has paid off. their profits are up, the negative publicity has subsided, the news agenda has moved on, and yet the misery for pilots continues. i recently met ryanair pilots at stansted airport and they told me of a climate of fear, scared that if they speak out ryanair will move them to a far-flung base – ryanair pilots who are self-employed and do not get sick pay, so they turn up to work ill. what price safety? it is literally only the time in the air that is paid, not taxiing on the tarmac, not weather or security delays. i heard of a pilot who was at work for 14 hours, but paid for under one hour. we cannot allow ryanair to fly out of the news agenda so quickly. they need a turbulent ride until they end these employment practices which are unfair and wrong.
mr president, tonight it will be 6º c in calais, next week even colder, and the week after that even colder again. imagine your children sleeping under a bit of plastic in those temperatures through a long, harsh winter, if indeed they can sleep at all. we are 42 days from christmas, a time of compassion, goodwill and celebration, but for those kids it will be none of those things. we know this is a challenge that is shared across europe, but tonight i ask the uk government to re-open the dubs amendment, to fill the places made available for some of those kids in desperate and dangerous circumstances and, in order to give those kids some hope for their future, to do so now before the long, harsh winter sets in.
mr president, the conservative mp chris heaton-harris, a former member of this house and a eurosceptic, recently wrote to uk university vice-chancellors asking for the names of professors who teach european affairs, with particular reference to brexit. ignoring the long tradition of academic freedom that universities consider crucial to their success, his letter asks for a copy of each university syllabus and any online lectures on brexit. labour members of the european parliament wish to express our concern at what appears to be a deliberate attempt to intimidate academic institutions. while the government may have disowned mr heaton-harris’s actions, its failure to speak out more firmly about the behaviour of one of its own parliamentary whips displays a lack of commitment to ensuring space for free, open and informed debate in respect of politically contentious issues. beyond reaffirming strongly that academic freedom is non-negotiable, we want to support universities teaching about all levels of our democracy, and reiterate that education is key in the functioning of a healthy society, in particular citizenship education.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, as mr moscovici said at the start of this, the leak of all these papers and lists of people with offshore holdings has come about because of the society of investigative journalists, but what has not been said this morning, and i think is relevant, is that the funding of these investigations came from one george soros. (interjection from mr lamberts: ‘so what?’) now i say this at a time – i am going to come back to ‘so what?’ and it may have some personal interest for you as well – when the use of money and the influence it may have had on the brexit result, or the trump election, has reached a level of virtual hysteria. just last week the electoral commission in the uk launched an investigation to find out whether the leave campaign took offshore money or russian money. this came about as a result of questions asked in the house of commons by one ben bradshaw, somebody linked to an organisation called open society. i just wonder when we are talking about offshore money, when we are talking about political subversion, when we are talking about collusion, i wonder whether we are looking in the wrong place. and i say that because george soros recently gave open society – his organisation, which of course campaigns for free movement of peoples and supports supranational structures like the european union – usd 18 billion. and his influence here and in brussels is truly extraordinary. open society boasts that they had 42 meetings last year with the commission. they have even published a book of reliable friends in the european parliament and there are 226 names on that list, including yours, sir. i thought you would find this interesting. we even had last week mr verhofstadt lobbying on behalf of mr soros at the conference of presidents in a battle that is going on with viktor orbán, the prime minister of hungary. if we are going to have a debate and we are going to talk about full, political and financial transparency, well let’s do it. so i shall be writing today to all 226 of you asking some pretty fair questions: ‘have you ever received funds, directly or indirectly, from open society?’ ‘how many of their events have you attended?’ ‘could you please give us a list of the meetings of all the representatives, including george soros, yourself.’ and i think this parliament should now set up a special committee to look into all of this. i say that because i fear we could be looking at the biggest level of international political collusion in history. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – if you are going to completely ban people from putting money, which in many cases could be utterly legitimate investments, be it in the british virgin islands or the bahamas or anywhere else, if you are going to do that then please be consistent. make sure that you ban the sale of duty-free cigarettes and make sure that you stop anyone using their personal allowances to avoid tax when it comes to investments. by the way, while you are at it, what about the 25 000 people who work for the european commission and the european parliament and pay a maximum tax rate of 16%? it is time, perhaps, to put your own house in order.
blue-card question. – mr giegold, in the uk jurisdiction, company directors have a duty to minimise taxation for the benefit of their shareholders. it is their duty. no one in their right mind wants to pay more tax than is correctly demanded, especially since governments, especially the european union, squander taxpayers’ hard-earned money. the question is: do you agree with me, mr giegold, that governments squander money? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, can i say that european union hypocrisy is alive and kicking? mr moscovici, you made a comment, which is that you can count on the parliament. can i remind you that when this parliament had before it a vote to effectively sanction mr juncker and ask him to stand aside due to his alleged links with luxleaks, that was declined and voted against. so this parliament cannot be counted on and you should not even state that. a far bigger scandal that nobody has yet addressed is the issue of the big german and french corporates who own, for instance, uk water, energy, waste collection companies, and they make full use all of the so-called tax avoidance and tax evasion mechanisms which this chamber and this parliament finds so unacceptable. can i suggest that your investigation widens and includes the big german and french corporates?
madam president, hard-pressed citizens across europe are rightly enraged that a wealthy global elite pays so little tax, when they pay so much. today we are debating the paradise papers, three years ago it was the luxleaks. i am afraid the eu’s record on this issue is shameful. remember, it was an eu directive in the 1980s that let multinational companies pay tax in any european headquarters country rather than where their revenues and profits were really made. remember, tougher action has been taken against the luxleaks whistle-blowers, than against the accountants, corporate executives or politicians involved. remember that the commission’s own president, mr juncker, was prime minister of luxembourg when his country was conniving with big accountancy firms to erode the tax bases of larger eu economies. in the eu, larger member countries will always be vulnerable to smaller ones acting as tax havens. british voters will surely think, yet again: thank goodness we are leaving.
madam president, another day, another leak of embarrassing documents about the role of the city of london as the global centre for tax avoidance. successive british governments have postured about leading on transparency but it is easy to play the good guy when you have so many post-colonial territories to do the dirty work at your bidding. the paradise papers also reveal the link between leading brexiteers, including tory donor lord ashcroft and jacob rees-mogg, and these palm-fringed islands with their thousands of secret trusts and letterbox companies. avoiding civilized rules on tax was always part of the brexit agenda but any attempt to turn britain into the bermuda of the north is likely to flounder since the eu will surely make cleaning up the overseas territories a condition for any future trade deal. so, i am hopeful that uk citizens may continue to benefit from green changes to eu laws on tax, including the abolition of the sort of blind trust that was appleby’s speciality, as well as country-by-country reporting by corporations.
mr president, yesterday sky news vividly showed the entire world what the suffering of the rohingya has been. i saw that first—hand when i visited the survivors of this genocide in bangladesh. in myanmar babies are being born on the beach. the lucky ones will be put on a boat to bangladesh. the rest will be left to die. the uk prime minister has vowed to tackle the inhuman destruction of the rohingya people. i plead only for the president’s authorisation for an extraordinary debate to consider the situation of the rohingya, in accordance with rule 153(4), because, after lengthy discussions with the un, bangladesh, myanmar and the uk, i believe the eu should now convene an intergovernmental summit to put an end to this genocide. for the sake of humanity, let this house lead the way forward. (applause)
mr president, may i have a technician, please, as my voting machine is not working.
mr president, i am pleased to support the saving lives: boosting car safety in the eu report, including its section on newly qualified drivers. despite years of hard-hitting campaigns, one in eight deaths on british roads still involves a driver over the drink—drive limit, and it is newly qualified drivers in their 20s who have the highest rates of drink—driving crashes. not a single drop of alcohol before driving for newly qualified drivers is a simple and easy message. yes, it is a controversial recommendation, but i believe it would save lives. as we have heard, alcohol bans for young and newly qualified drivers are already in place in other european countries, including germany, switzerland and croatia. so i urge the british government to take heed of this report and back the british medical association and the road safety charity, brake, who have also called for the law to be tightened. we can stop needless, tragic deaths – so let us do it.
mr president, this report is not really about car safety. it is about where the proper boundary should be drawn between regional, national and european authorities. i am required, as a matter of eu law, to carry my children around in car seats until they reach a certain age or a minimum height. i had been looking forward to discarding the wretched yogurt-encrusted blobs at a much earlier stage – i speak obviously of the car seats, not of the children. you might think that makes me a terrible father, or you might think that it is a question of freedom, but that isn’t really the point. the point is, how on earth did we reach this point where this cannot be decided by our national democratic mechanisms and procedures? where is the cross-border element? how is this a matter for proper international jurisdiction? if the european union restricted itself to those parts of jurisdiction that are genuinely in their nature international, no one would have had a problem with it. there would not have been a british referendum. the problem is, it doesn’t know when to stop.
i voted against this proposal. via its energy policies the european union has taken control over the industrial base. via its climate policies it has taken control over the power and air transport sector, and via this directive and the amendment it is taking full control over the major rivers and canals in the european union. the directive insists upon training requirements and certification, safety standards, environmental controls, workers’ and women’s rights, and so on. crucially, and i emphasise ‘crucially’, it then demands that all the data related to waterway traffic is passed to and held by the commission. this is yet another of the european union’s salami tactics decided on and driven towards ever closer union. fine if you are an eu arch-federalist, not fine if you are a euro-sceptic like myself.
mr president, this report underlines that the retail financial services market requires innovation in order genuinely to help consumers and businesses. i welcome that fact. it also shows that there needs to be a focus on ensuring prevention of predatory lending and payday loans, which have resulted in the exploitation of small businesses and individual consumers, particularly the vulnerable, across the eu. it is therefore vital that, in order to do so, the relevant european financial supervisors are given the appropriate resources to fulfil their full range of duties. a strong regulatory system will increase consumer confidence and the internal market cannot function properly without strong consumer protection mechanisms. additionally, developing retail financial services should not be to the detriment of more traditional methods of banking and should bear in mind the needs of those who prefer face-to-face interaction. the report acknowledges that branch closures destroy community cohesion and are detrimental to the development of good financial services at a local level. this was reflected in the final text and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, obviously our heartfelt condolences go out to the family of daphne caruana galizia. the murderers and those who instructed them to carry out this awful deed must be found and brought to justice, whoever they may be. this situation, though, must not be used as an oyster knife to open the judicial system of malta and the other nation states to interference by the european union. rather, it is an opportunity for malta itself, as a sovereign nation, to expunge the taints of gangsterism. malta has proven itself in the past to be a proud and brave nation, and this is an opportunity to show that it is still that nation, and to honour the life and the memory of daphne caruana galizia.
member of the commission. – mr president, there is only one month remaining until the wto member states will be in buenos aires for the 11th ministerial conference of the wto. it is a critical moment for wto. a strong, multilateral trading system with the wto at its centre is very much in the interests of the eu and the world. it is the best way to deal with international trade issues and it is now being seriously challenged. both central features of the wto; its negotiating and its dispute settlement, are under severe pressure for the moment. a month from mc 11??, the prospects of a negotiated outcome still remain highly uncertain, although some elements are becoming clearer. we will see a difficult process of negotiations regarding a possible ministerial declaration where the questions of how to prioritise work for the future will be key. preparations for the conference are significantly affected by the situation surrounding the ?? body where the unprecedented decision of the united states to block the appointment of new members put at risk the functioning of one of the most important and well-functioning elements of the wto. we are, of course, ready to discuss possible concerns regarding the ?? body but we cannot and we will not accept measures which weakens it or puts its independence into question. today, it is more important than ever that the eu shows its strong support for the work of the organisation. following the success of the last two conferences in bali and nairobi – notably they accepted the adoption of the trade facilitation agreement – and an agreement on agriculture export competition, it is important that the positive momentum is maintained and that concrete outcomes are agreed. the european union is working very hard in geneva with other countries and we have taken the leadership in preparing such outcomes by tabling texts in several key areas. unfortunately, the divergences among the members are still strong. despite our efforts to build convergence among members, there is a huge uncertainty. the wto members are pursuing the objective of reaching agreement on public stock-holding for food security and fishery subsidies. we support this; this would be good, but we strongly believe that it would not be enough; it has to be part of a broader package, in particular, including e-commerce, domestic regulation in services and new transparency rules benefiting smes. in this context it is necessary to accelerate the work towards a balanced package. let me just give you a few details on where we are. firstly, public stock holdings for food security purposes and fisheries subsidies have garnered support of most of the membership in terms of aspiration for outcomes. if this is not sufficient in terms of the outcome, we will continue to work in these areas, but also it has to be accompanied by progress in other areas. we have tabled together with brazil and other wto members a former current proposal for a comprehensive solution addressing domestic support in agriculture and public stock-holdings, and we really think this is a realistic proposal. however, there are other proposals on the table reflecting unrealistic ideas that are not boding well for a substantial outcome in agriculture. regarding fishery subsidies, the political commitment to implement the united nations’ sustainable development goals on marine resources has contributed to advance work here, but it remains doubtful whether we can be able to achieve an ambitious outcome. secondly, we also believe that other issues that are of relevance to many wto members and relevant to today’s global trade should be addressed. as i mentioned, domestic regulation of these services, e-commerce, transparency of regulatory measures; these issues are right for the mc 11. moreover, it would be important to agree on a strong future-orientated element which would set the stage for the post-buenos aires work avoiding contentious and sterile debates about doha joe and non-doha work. thirdly, there has been call by some members, notably the united states, to reform the wto. we are ready to engage in discussions on this, but we need to see concrete proposals on what precisely such reforms would entail. we are also finally committed to work on trade and gender, and we support the declaration on trade and women’s economic empowerment, and that will be adopted in the margins of the conference. mr president, honourable members, this is an up-coming conference which is of utmost importance. we need to make sure that we can defend a strong, functioning wto with concrete outcomes because it has to be at the centre of the multilateral trading system. i very much appreciate the support of the european parliament and i am looking forward to seeing the big delegation that you will send to buenos aires in four weeks. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, having recently returned from an international trade mission to new zealand, a country that is among the world’s greatest exporters, and now with no subsidies for its farmers, i reminded them of the importance of free trade and open markets through the world trade organization (wto). the ecr group is committed to the multilateral trade agenda and to a positive outcome at this biannual wto ministerial conference this december. i will do my part working together with the world’s trade ministers to champion the central role of the wto as a global rules-based organisation. the wto is quite simply the spring that flows into the rivers of trade agreements around the world, including all eu trade deals and amongst the wto’s 164 members. we support the outstanding items of the doha development agenda, but where progress is not possible, the wto should not stay stuck but advance in areas where it can progress, for example, e-commerce, investment facilitation, and in services by seeking to unlock the trade in services agreement (tisa) on top of gats. trade liberalisation has shown huge benefits for developing countries, but trade facilitation and market opening must be accompanied by appropriate flanking measures covering, say, education, equality, infrastructure development and good governance. the work of the wto and a commitment to multilateralism are absolutely essential to this aim.
mr president, after brexit i am pleased that the united kingdom will have its own functioning trade policy outside of the european union. we should freely look to new global markets where 90% of the world’s growth will be seen in the next 15 years. since december, the government has been in discussions to reclaim our place as an independent member of the world trade organization (wto). the final terms of our membership will depend on the deal struck between the united kingdom and brussels. a comprehensive free trade agreement that retains cooperation with the european union is the most preferable. however, the european union’s block on opening talks on the future relations is preventing progress. a no-deal scenario would see us revert to trade on most-favoured nations tariffs. research by the think-tank civitas suggests that this would cost eu firms twice as much as those in the united kingdom. uk exporters would face 5.2 billion in tariffs on goods being sold to the eu, while eu exporters would face 12.9 billion in the opposite direction. there would be 1.8 billion worth of tariffs on german car-related exports alone. so consider, colleagues, while brussels continues to preside over demands for the divorce bill, it should be aware that actions have consequences on both sides of the channel. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – of course, and i thank my colleague for the question. in terms of the divorce bill we are an honourable people. we have said we will meet reasonable demands and i believe that that is right and proper, and i am happy to put that on the record. but what we should not meet is the exorbitant, ever-ongoing demands that seem to be now made, and we need to progress quite quickly. in terms of northern ireland, i think that you and i would both agree that we do not want to see a hard border, but this will require cooperation from both governments, the republic’s government and the united kingdom’s government, and so far i think that the republic has been lacking. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr president, i simply wanted to ask ms dodds if she would look at the screen, which says: ‘multilateral negotiations in view of the 11th wto ministerial conference’ and tell us in her reply to my 30 seconds, what on earth her contribution had to do with the subject we are debating today?
blue-card answer. – the world trade organization (wto) will be an incredibly important organisation for the united kingdom going forward. we seek individual membership of that organisation and we continue to support it as a rules-based organisation for international trade. however, what we should absolutely be clear about here is the consequences of not negotiating a free-trade agreement between the united kingdom and the rest of the european union, and sometimes this needs to be spelt out for our european partners and for the benefit of their constituents.
mr president, notwithstanding the commission’s and the commissioners’ herculean efforts to keep the show on the road, it is, frankly, quite difficult to imagine a positive outcome to the 11th ministerial council. the agenda that the commission are promoting on fishing subsidies, on food security, on transparency and on e—commerce is the right agenda. but it is disappointing that, as other colleagues have said, historically, our biggest ally on many of these issues, the united states, will not be supporting us in buenos aires. it is sad that they have moved from a nation based on promoting a global rules—based system, to one that now seems to be more interested in protecting its own very narrow interests. the 2017 us trade representative (ustr) trade policy agenda, for example, states that the administration will not be bound by wto rulings that undermine the ability of the united states to respond effectively to unfair trade practices. that does not inspire you as a nation that is committed to seeing the development of the wto as a rules-based organisation. nevertheless, notwithstanding that, we should be prepared to listen to the united states’ proposals for reform, but that has to stop short of undermining in any way the developments that we have seen in terms of two thirds of the wto membership now being from developing nations, and we should not undermine their role and their equality in the organisation. reform, yes, but not back to a rich man’s club.
mr president, there are many misconceptions about the attitude that eu producers have towards free trade. the truth is, all they want to be given is a level playing-field and it is an understanding from the sensitive sectors that they will be defended. all too often, there is a sense that agriculture is simply used as the last bargaining chip in the negotiations, so i do welcome the fact that the committee on agriculture (agri) will have a representative travelling to attend the meeting in buenos aires and this is particularly timely in respect of many of other things, and i have to say that this debate is extremely timely as well. the truth is, i think we should go to buenos aires and the world trade organization (wto) in a positive way because in europe we don’t believe we have much to fear. i think we have got to be positive, we should not be negative. i posed the question on agriculture the other day about multilateral versus bilateral, and i think that when some of us look back to the past we are maybe sorry we didn’t get better deals under the multilateral system, and i am more worried about what the commissioner is up to in the bilateral negotiations she is having in mercosur at the moment than i am with the rest. trade is extremely important, we all know how important it is, so that is why i believe we must go positively forward. but we all know there is no such thing as a quick fix, and there is no such thing, above all else, as a quick trade deal. so from that point of view can i just say that compared to the last speaker i am not as confident that the uk will come out of the negotiations all that well.
mr president, the idealistic days when it was argued that trade could help to ‘make poverty history’ seem long ago now. the data are clear that trade has benefited a tiny elite and massively increased global inequality. the trade system we have now prioritises the interests of capital above those of people. we can change this and we must, if we are to defeat the forces of nationalism and reassure our citizens that globalisation can work for them. forgive me if i doubt the extent to which this concern was considered seriously at the recent wto discussions. while commissioner malmström is developing plans for a multilateral investment court to protect businesses from potential losses, the un is debating an international binding treaty enforcing minimum human-rights standards on multinational corporations, who too often slip through national legal controls. given the clear support by the european parliament for such a charter, it was deeply disappointing that the eu chose to hold hands with the trump administration in an attempt to block this process.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, given the strong political links that i have enjoyed for many years with many of the eastern partnership countries, some of which boast large diaspora communities in my london constituency, i am pleased today to debate the upcoming november summit. this september has finally seen the full implementation of the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) with ukraine and talks continue to progress with armenia, in concluding a comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement – one that does not affect its membership of the eurasian economic union. we also see an existing association agreement in dcfta with moldova and georgia already in force. all of these initiatives are important, improving economic and political links between the european union and each of the respective eastern partnership countries, but we can still do more. if the eastern partnership is to become a meaningful instrument, its incentives must move beyond those on offer to other third countries further afield. this resolution proposes, therefore, the employee assistance programme (eap+) model which would plot a course beyond visa liberalisation and free trade agreements (ftas) to potential membership of the customs union, the energy union and perhaps the schengen area. this would follow the mantra of ‘more for more’ and act as an incentive to encourage further reforms and bring the eastern partners more closely into the european orbit. allowing greater benefits as outlined in the eap+ model would offer a favoured relationship to countries with whom the eu is geographically, culturally and historically linked. this is not a partnership against anyone, but it is a partnership of our common, shared democratic values. maybe post-brexit, this will be the kind of arrangement that the uk ends up with.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, our shared security on the european continent is vital to our mutual safety and prosperity. the uk has always contributed to maintaining this security and will continue to do so in the future. nato and the commonwealth have shown the way for sovereign status to cooperate while retaining independence. state governments have built up over the last 70 years an expertise on russia and the east and this, along with nato, has kept the peace. instead, what the eu offers is political subjugation to brussels. the idea that the eu equates to security for either its current or potential members is false. the eu shooting from the hip can only jeopardise this fragile peace. i firmly believe that the ambitions of your european project run contrary to the security of eastern europe and are a direct threat to the hard-fought independence of the countries in this region. fear of russia should not lead towards serfdom to brussels.
blue-card question. – thank you for taking my blue card. have you not just let the cat out the bag by saying what you said about those countries that want to seek european union membership? is this not actually a ploy and openness about your, the european union’s, neo-colonialist ambitions now to actually increase your empire further? and now that you have this defence force, does that not now give you the military power that you’ve desired for so long?
mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this excellent report. as many colleagues have already said, this is a significant report with substantial recommendations. it highlights the need for clear, political vision for the eastern partnership and it is important to note that this specifically includes gender equality, which i’m afraid neither the council nor the commission representatives mentioned. our european values are part of what makes us attractive in the eu, and in our partner countries. the inclusion of the principle of a ‘more for more and less for less’-based approach and the aligning of financial support to this principle is a practical way of implementing the differentiation that is necessary. i’m also glad to see the inclusion of georgia in a proposed trust fund, and the stress that the fund should focus on social and economic infrastructure. i hope the brussels summit conclusions will respond to and reflect the direction of this report.
mr president, the european union has long sought justification for its defence ambitions by seeking out problems in its near neighbourhood and fabricating a role for itself, despite the existence of more appropriate and effective institutions such as nato. a consequential side effect of the british electorate’s wise decision on brexit has clearly increased its impetus for a common eu defence policy. there are many things that i fear about these developments – some more pressing than others. this report openly discusses the deployment of common security and defence policy (csdp) missions into ukraine and elsewhere. thus, the eu now seems eager to try out its new toy and eastern europe might well prove to be its playground. this clearly contradicts its ridiculous mantra about the eu supposedly keeping the peace in europe. do not become entangled in complex security situations as a means of justification for your political ambitions! have you learned nothing from the lessons of european history? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – what i prefer is a military approach through nato. having had a grandfather who fought at passchendaele and on the somme in 1917 and 1918, and having had an uncle who laid down his life in a lancaster bomber over berlin in 1944, i very much know the expensive price of freedom that has been paid. i’m absolutely delighted that my country has taken the route through nato. and i think history, as has often been said, is littered with wars which everybody knew would never happen. and this, i fear, is what is coming for the european union.
mr president, in my experience, if dialogue between governments is key, people-to-people contact is just as important for cooperation, intercultural dialogue and the breaking down of barriers. i therefore call for more support for grassroots projects and civil participation. i deeply believe that more consideration must be given to the power of civil society to pursue intercultural exchange, people-to-people dialogue and peace—building initiatives. because it is what i did before i came into politics, i know that the arts can be a powerful tool to bring this about. for example, the eu with its cultural diplomacy strategy can be a key player. it is able to share, support and develop best practice, particularly in respect of young people. i particularly welcome, therefore, the call in the report to guarantee access to key programmes such as erasmus plus and creative europe. a young generation in the eastern countries has grown up with a european vision: they must not be let down. their participation in decision—making that will affect their future is absolutely key. the eastern partnership mechanism must also encourage that, along with visa liberalisation.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i’d like to start by giving my sincere birthday greetings to the very distinguished and able chair of the committee on international trade, bernd lange. also may i restate my birthday greetings to you, madam president, and if it’s not presumptuous to congratulate you on your immaculate chairing of this debate. trade takes place, it has to take place, under agreed rules that are set internationally. it should be noted that we are talking about international rules, not eu rules. if a trade partner behaves in a way that is unfair, then the wronged party must be able to take appropriate action. almost always, the unfair practice takes the form of exporting below the cost of production, in one word: ‘dumping’. and, by the way, it’s a huge relief that in the jargon-ridden etymology of trade, ‘dumping’ is a great word – it conveys more or less exactly what it is. so far, so good. but there’s a problem. there’s an eu problem. the eu is a customs union. anti-dumping duties imposed by the eu have to be agreed by every member state. as some of us will remember from two years ago, the european steel association, eurofer, was crystal clear that china was systematically dumping steel. however, by the time the commission finally got an agreement and imposed anti-dumping duties, it was too little, too late: the eu put on only a 40% tariff. by comparison, the united states had previously, and quickly, and almost in time, put on a 300% tariff, i.e. one that really worked. in the debate that took place on steel and china two years ago, our distinguished colleague made an important point that was partly valid. he was right: the cameron-osborne uk government of the time would have been unlikely to impose the necessary tariffs on steel produced in china. however, the point is not what they would or wouldn’t have done, the point is that outside the eu the then-british government could have imposed the necessary tariffs. the fact is that the european union is just too large, too awkward, too clumsy, too divided, too inept, to be able to make proper and timely decisions on trade defence instruments. in this context, as in so many others, the eu is not fit for purpose. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, the question ill becomes somebody of mr fjellner’s intellectual precision and clarity. the fact of the matter is that the 40% was not enough to stop the dumping. the 300% was enough to stop the dumping. that is the point – a point that i feel i made very clear at the time.
madam president, nowhere has the impact of eu-wide trade policy been felt more acutely than in wales. five thousand jobs were lost in the steel industry last year alone. that is more than one in six. yet as the crisis deepened, neither the welsh assembly, to which i am also elected, nor the uk government could do anything substantial enough to save a single job. we were blocked from setting our own tariffs to protect against the dumping of cheap steel. we were met with disinterest when we begged brussels for help, too absorbed with bigger markets in other member states and more interested in satisfying greedy lobbyists. even more disgracefully, the uk government was banned under eu regulation from providing any state aid to welsh steel as a reprieve while a long-term solution could be found. as a result, thousands of welsh people from communities that have been built on steel were thrown into the dust heap of unemployment due to unsympathetic policies in brussels made by unelected and unaccountable commissioners. the uk must not, under any circumstances, enter into any ongoing continental arrangements on dumping after brexit. we fought for our freedom so that we can take care of our own industries and our own people. enforced homogeny does not work. nations have unique economic landscapes and needs. i urge fellow meps to wake up. do not slavishly obey diktats issued by brussels. campaign for a mechanism to exempt your countries from poisonous eu legislation when your people are faced with hardship. this is your duty. you are elected to represent them, not the eu. i wish that i and my fellow welsh politicians could have done more to save thousands of innocent workers whose livelihoods were destroyed. at least i can say that i campaigned for brexit and will keep fighting for british freedom, so that on 29 march 2019 we can say ‘never again’.
madam president, let me add my ‘happy birthday’ to you and to bernd lange. i want to congratulate all colleagues involved in the negotiations in this file, and the progress of parliament made is obvious if you compare the council’s initial approach with the final document we have before us. a good job well done, but it is only halfway there; i could have gone for dinner early, but i agree entirely with my colleague ms maria arena: this file has to be complimented by the completion of the trade defence instruments (tdi) file. the commissioner will recall that in the trilogue negotiations on this file, both the council and the commission – more importantly here the council – made promises that, in advance of the vote that we are going to have this week, they would make a breakthrough in the tdi file. i regret to report that this has not happened, and in fact the tdi file appears to me to be going nowhere at the present time. it is very important that we do make progress in that file, because – as i said – this is only half the job, and without tdi reform we will not have all the tools and armoury we need to defend european industry against unfair competition.
mr president, a year ago, steel workers were marching in the rain in brussels to protest the dumping of cheap steel and calling for china to be denied market economy status, fearing thousands more job losses across europe. labour meps have long pushed for action and the eu has now delivered, and that is very welcome. but what a contrast to the attitude of our tory government. they continue to drag their feet on granting workers and industries the protection that they need against dumping in the eu and through weak proposals on post-brexit trade remedies. here, for the first time ever in trade defence rules, social and environmental criteria will also now be assessed, recognising the effect of unfair trade practices on workers and the environment. we have a much more progressive alternative before us, but this is just one part of the eu’s endeavour to strengthen its trade defences, and we now need a deal to modernise those vital trade defence instruments overall if we are really to save our european steel.
mr president, i think mr ponga’s report is an excellent report and it gives us the opportunity to see the summit in abidjan as one which is framed by the sustainable development goals. that is extremely important, because by doing that we move away from the traditional view of africa – about donor—recipient aid – and we move towards a partnership fit for the 21st century. commissioner, you talked about the need for practical outcomes to the summit; i think that that is the most important thing that has been said tonight. we don’t want to come away with more general statements of intent; we need to come away with jobs and investment in africa. it’s estimated that we need 15 to 20 million jobs created per year in africa if we are to meet demand from the growing population. between 2010 and 2015, only 21 million jobs were created. the focus has to be on investment and bringing growth and sharing the benefits of that growth with the wider population. i hear you say that there will be a very strong gender dimension, and i hope you will deliver on that as well: without the interests of young women being looked after, we will not get a just growth in africa.
as an active member of the eu—acp joint parliamentary assembly, i view our relationship with africa as one of our foreign affairs priorities. my colleague’s useful report has highlighted some of the most important elements that our relationship with africa should be based on, such as the inclusion of women and young people and the importance of the cultural and artistic sector. most importantly, it is crucial that eu development funds should not be tied to cooperation with europe in the field of migration: this report is very clear on that. the report also grants significant importance to the fight against terrorism. although this should be on the agenda, both africans and europeans must be extremely careful, as the use of terrorism laws to fight against human rights defenders and political opponents is more and more widespread on both our continents. in all sectors, our priority should be to always hold ourselves and our partners to achieving the highest human rights standards.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, nature is in trouble. it is becoming clearer and clearer we are living beyond the sustainable carrying capacity of the planet. over the last 40 years a quarter of wildlife species have become threatened with extinction. internationally important peat bogs have been lost, wetlands drained for economic generation, and forests and their wildlife cut down, farmed or burned as humans encroach. yet this is where the life-sustaining forces are located. life-sustaining means that without them food, water and air will not and cannot be guaranteed to sustain us all. the 1992 rio summit saw the convention on biological diversity, the first time the world came together and demanded action; and we’ve tried. we really have. in the eu we have had planned targets and funding for years, but the news is not good. a 75% decline in insect pollinator populations; just under 10% of our freshwater fishes are now threatened; one in ten of our bee species is facing extinction; a 72% decrease in butterflies. animals and plants are disappearing across europe. it is a silent crisis. the birds and habitats directives are conservation’s gold standards. yet even they still miss their targets. why? is it the fact that the funding is going astray, or the political will to deliver is missing? or because the public can’t see what is happening? and they really do care about nature. well-financed natura 2000 sites help create jobs, building green infrastructure with businesses, but again we are not going to meet the 2020 biodiversity targets and we’ll see further deterioration of nature. so where’s the transparency? where is the money going? is the money being used effectively? we need to know. this house wants to work with the commission and member states to tackle this silent crisis. this time, commissioner, let’s make it happen. let’s deliver for nature.
blue-card question. – surely polish values are those of its democratically elected parliament and government, not those of other european nations. i speak as a homosexual: i do not agree with many of the things that the polish government are doing. i am also very pro-feminist, so i do not agree with a lot of the other things that the polish government are doing. but surely it is the right of the polish people to make their own decisions. britain will never forget what polish pilots did for us in world war ii, and if poland is being dictated to by the eu, perhaps you should consider joining britain in brexit – would you agree with me, madam? (applause in some quarters)
mr president, a key component of european union membership is supposedly shared sovereignty. at no point, to my knowledge, have member state citizens been told that the european union is now supreme, that member state governments are subservient and that european union dictatorship is now in place. this morning a veiled and bullying threat to invoke article 7, to punish poland, was made. i would welcome this as full and final proof that european union membership renders democratic national general elections and associated pledges, promises and outcomes by the winning party, absolutely meaningless. i will voice one warning: be careful what you wish for when you invoke article 7.
in writing. – in his opening remarks in this debate on the situation in poland, commission vice-president timmermans said that ‘an issue pertaining to the rule of law never affects only the country concerned: it affects the whole construction of the european union.’ the debate has also referred to the requirement that independence of justice systems and courts must be maintained. frequently, in our debates, we demand that the fundamental rights of people be respected by governments. why is it that the commission and the council have not expressed similar concerns over the situation in catalonia? it is outrageous that the government of a member state can inflict violence upon peaceful citizens on their way to cast a vote. it is unacceptable that the spanish government can sack the legitimately elected government of catalonia, and utterly incredible that elected catalan ministers are sent to prison for exercising the democratic mandate given to them by voters in catalonia. surely this is a situation which demands a response from the leadership of the eu, at the very least offering to facilitate dialogue and a return to democratic order, and seeking guarantees that voters in catalonia will be allowed to democratically determine their own constitutional future.
in writing. – in his opening remarks in this debate on the situation in poland, commission vice-president timmermans said that ‘an issue pertaining to the rule of law never affects only the country concerned: it affects the whole construction of the european union.’ the debate has also referred to the requirement that independence of justice systems and courts must be maintained. frequently, in our debates, we demand that the fundamental rights of people be respected by governments. why is it that the commission and the council have not expressed similar concerns over the situation in catalonia? it is outrageous that the government of a member state can inflict violence upon peaceful citizens on their way to cast a vote. it is unacceptable that the spanish government can sack the legitimately elected government of catalonia, and utterly incredible that elected catalan ministers are sent to prison for exercising the democratic mandate given to them by voters in catalonia. surely this is a situation which demands a response from the leadership of the eu, at the very least offering to facilitate dialogue and a return to democratic order, and seeking guarantees that voters in catalonia will be allowed to democratically determine their own constitutional future.
mr president, we can welcome much of what the commissioner has said this morning in terms of preparedness for many of the countries that have been spoken of. there is a question about whether the commission considers that the absorption capacity of those funds is adequate and the difference will really be made. i also want to add my voice to others that have talked about the importance of relocation, especially from the greek islands to the mainland, and that we have to get rid of this agreement with turkey that keeps people stuck on the islands, puts additional pressure on the local population there and prevents real solutions happening for those people. we also need our member states to step up and implement more in terms of relocation. the speeding up of family reunification is still absolutely necessary; it is lamentable what is happening. what other member states could also be doing is not trying to return people, whether it is to bulgaria or greece, countries under pressure, they do not have to do this under dublin, they can take responsibility for those cases.
mr president, it’s not just the containers and the freezing conditions mentioned by mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra: over 12 000 people are now stranded in the hotspots on the greek islands. i visited them recently in these hotspots, and the capacity is for half those numbers: there are around 5000 places. so we have a problem. many have mentioned what that problem is, but it boils down to two things. one, of course, is the wider political question to the council, which is: what are the responsibilities that member states will take on relocation and ensuring that we quickly manage the system’s dublin iii – the asylum system – to ensure that member states meet their responsibilities. we all know that is critical. but coming back to what the commissioner has said in detail, he admitted to the severe overcrowding and that the situation has been difficult, but he was very detailed in his response, and this is the clear focus: that funding from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) is now coming instead of the european civil protection and humanitarian aid operations (echo) funding by the commission. but what is the absorption of this? can the commissioner say more about how effective this can be in the freezing conditions that we are about to meet, because that is very important? can he say more about this?
president of the slovak republic. – mr president, it was a great honour to accept the invitation to speak to this distinguished european auditorium. there is not a more representative place where any european politician could express his views on the future of our european project. even the timing of my address here could hardly be better. in two days, slovakia will celebrate the day when we made our first steps to democracy. it all began with young people, with students whose courage to stand up against the regime had opened the door to the velvet revolution. twenty-eight years ago we went into the streets and we called for freedom, human rights and democratic institutions. we forced the communist regime to dissolve, after four decades. when i try to comprehend what we have achieved since 17 november 1989, i almost cannot believe how far we have managed to get. i stand here as the president of a proud, free and democratic country – a member of the european union – whose citizens can travel freely across the continent and use the same currency as countries from the opposite side of the inglorious iron curtain. none of it would be possible without the attractive power of peace and prosperity of the european project. we have succeeded because we had a vital vision to become a part of the west, and because we were granted the opportunity to fulfil this dream through the european union. indeed, the success story of slovakia is a success story of european integration. (applause) the timing of my speech here might be a lucky chance, but it is no coincidence that i have decided to begin my remarks with the success story of european integration in the part of europe i am coming from. because in the middle of the overwhelming pessimism of the past few years, it seems almost out of place to talk about success. and yet, i am convinced that these doubts about the ability of the eu to cope with common challenges, to overcome present difficulties, are greatly exaggerated. make no mistake, this does not make them less dangerous. they are in our heads, they influence sentiment in our societies, they tamper with our electoral decisions. in the end, they even drive our political and policy actions. so i am not here to downplay the dangers of populism, nationalism and extremism fuelled by dissatisfaction in our societies and amplified by professionally-orchestrated propaganda. i am not here to underestimate the consequences of brexit, or the real challenges we need to address in the monetary union, border protection or elsewhere. but i am here to forcefully reject the idea that there are some fundamental flaws in the architecture of the eu that will lead us to a bleak future. that something is rotten in the european project and it has been somehow responsible for the recent rise of extremism and nationalism. i am here to refuse the popular game of ‘blame it on brussels’ whenever it serves to cover some pressing domestic political issue. (applause) let me point out where i do see a weakness in upholding the eu project. there is no doubt we defend the right cause – the project of peace, prosperity and human dignity. facts speak volumes about the success of european integration. of course, anti-european populists and extremists cannot beat us in providing solutions to improve the lives of our citizens. but too often it looks like they beat us with their limitless confidence and passion for their case. we need real, stronger leadership, more confidence and devotion when acting and speaking up on behalf of the eu. we are aware of this problem in slovakia. a month ago we adopted a joint declaration of the president, the speaker of the parliament and the prime minister, which strongly and decisively reinforces our membership in the eu as a strategic interest without any alternative for the future of our country. we have agreed that we will communicate with our public responsibly. that we will not use double language abroad and at home about eu decisions. (applause) i consider this point especially important. we can see how often the eu is misused in political campaigns, and how well it serves populists to present all victories as national, and all defeats as european. we cannot get trapped by images of doom portrayed by those who would like to see us in another crisis. the eu is not a sinking ship and we do not have to radically reform the way we operate. the most pressing issues can be solved by finishing what we have begun years ago. this is valid for the euro zone, schengen or the single market. not all of our past decisions were picture perfect and it will take some fine-tuning to overcome the challenges we face. but we do not need revolution. we just have to focus on what the eu members have mastered during 60 years of integration – solving the issues together, helping each other and learning from each other. solidarity and mutual trust are crucial to our success and our strength to overcome whatever comes next. but the recent migration crisis unfortunately left wounds on our mutual trust. and it will take time and effort to eventually heal these wounds. so let me today just say something that i used to repeat again and again during our heated domestic discussions. it is our moral duty to help children, women and men who flee their homes to save their lives, and slovakia should never hesitate to show solidarity to our friends and partners in the eu. (applause) slovakia openly pursues its strategic interest to be at the core of european integration, but i think we should focus on substance, on achieving convincing results, and not lose too much energy in debates on a core or so-called multi-speed europe. this discussion is not new. only players and contexts differ. there has always been and there always will be eu countries willing to do more than others at some point in time. to explore more areas of cooperation is certainly not against the unity of the eu when agreed rules are respected, but it is crucial that new initiatives are open to anyone interested. and i know for sure that slovakia will not look for back seats when new projects are on the table. while we invest our effort in the consolidation of our internal affairs, we shall not forget the role of the eu beyond its borders. because there are many threats out there with a significant impact on our common future, security and well-being. the eu today is an economic superpower, but its voice in the security challenges around us is quite limited, whether it is dealing with russia over the illegal annexation of crimea and its support of separatists in donbas, or the situation in syria and libya. but the eu was built to be the project of peaceful economic integration, not a common military powerhouse. it always feels a bit cheap to criticise perceived lack of geopolitical prestige or a lack of operational capability during sudden crises, if one is not willing to equip the eu with proper abilities and powers. or if one is not ready to respect common actions when they matter the most. we in slovakia are in favour of a more ambitious foreign and security policy of the eu. i do not think it is sustainable to limit the eu to the role of a money-raising benefactor after the dust settles, a benefactor trying to rebuild what has been left or destroyed by interventions of unscrupulous players on the international scene. looking at the world today, it must be clear that the eu needs to transform itself into a more powerful global player. but i suggest we address this task rather honestly. no common policy can be efficient if it is pushed aside any time someone deems it convenient. i am content that we have abandoned the idea of some european army as a starting point, because we need first to agree on what it really means to strengthen our cooperation in this field. also, let me be clear: in slovakia, we have never seen this initiative as an attempt to compete with the defence guarantees provided by nato and a strategic partnership with the united states. but we see lot of room where enhanced european cooperation can fill in and play a crucial role. without merging our resources together, we would never be able to stand up to our ambitions. that is why slovakia welcomes the idea of ‘permanent structured cooperation’. while speaking about security, let me add one remark. i am following an ongoing investigation in the united states about the scope of russian interference in their presidential elections. then i look back home where i can hardly see any action at all. and i always tell myself how lucky we are to live in europe where, apparently, no russian influence is felt, as none is being intensively investigated ... but, on a more serious note, while we start talking about the european defence projects, we should act together against the imminent and dangerous threat we all face – the russian propaganda and information war. it would be ridiculous to work on our defence hardware but leave this vulnerability open to attacks. honestly, it would be shame to let the european project fail because of our inability to halt the dissemination of hoaxes and fake news ... (applause) ... because propaganda has real consequences in our everyday lives. it shaped the moods in the eu and influences attitudes of our citizens. it seeks to spread chaos, to weaken our stability, to undermine the trust of people in our institutions, and to make us afraid of every upcoming election. one of the biggest threats comes from inside. we need to look into organised financial and personal schemes linked to media, non-governmental organisations, business entities or political parties. it is no secret that people in our countries get hired and used to destabilise our societies. in many cases, we simply ignore it or feel it inappropriate to take action. but russia becomes more bold in its efforts to destabilise europe and it is ready to use any situation to this end. i really appreciate that this parliament approved a resolution on russian propaganda last year. it was a bold and much needed first step. it is clear the problem should be dealt with the utmost political and expert attention at the european level and it should lead to active defence. we shall not tolerate disinformation interfering with our strategic interests. we must defend ourselves, in words and in deeds. i have mentioned the post-communist journey of my own country as proof of the success of european integration, and i will go even further and say that enlargement itself has been the most successful eu policy since the fall of the berlin wall. (applause) it has been the most important contribution of european politicians of the past three decades to keep the continent peaceful, free and prosperous. i have no doubt that our common future will be determined greatly by our capability to accept new members, by our ability to secure the stability and prosperity of our neighbourhood. no matter how serious our internal challenges seem to be right now, we must not give up on enlargement. the fate of the western balkan countries must remain one of our priorities. yes, there are reasons to be disappointed by the lack of progress in reforms, in overcoming old divisions, but rather than relax our attention, the eu should engage more. we have horrific experience of what could happen if the western balkans stay at the margin of our attention. the security and stability of the region is closely intertwined with the security and stability of the eu, so we cannot afford to give up on them. that means we cannot kill the vision of successful integration for them. a failure to offer hope is empowering adversaries of a prosperous, peaceful and integrated europe. we simply cannot lose our friends in our neighbourhood, especially in the eastern neighbourhood. in this situation it is ridiculous to spend months in discussions on how to avoid any reference to a membership vision, instead of focusing on what we can offer them. let me be more specific. moldova is one of the poorest parts of europe. people there desperately long for better lives that can be achieved through reforms and a realistic vision of a better future, something that the eu can offer the best. without our help, they will be left vulnerable to the kremlin’s interference. georgia, a country that has been doing its best for well over a decade; our true ally in the region. but also a country that suffers from a recent war with russia. a big part of its territory is still illegally occupied and people are left suffering. i touched the barbed-wire fence that can divide your garden overnight and leave you with no access to your family. and yet, georgia has not lost its strategic direction towards the west. so let’s not put this bond at risk by our ignorance and indifference that could lead to irreparable damage. and finally, ukraine, our biggest neighbour, is fighting its war for a territorial integrity while carrying out reforms at the same time. i often hear they do not do enough. but they will not do better if we lose our interest, cut off our support and leave them on their own. moreover, if we get back to business as usual with putin’s regime, if we lift the sanctions without forcing the kremlin to respect international law and principles, then we are willing to trade our own long-term security and stability for dubious individual short-term profits and interests. european integration embodies everything that is dear to us – life in peace, life in dignity where every human being is respected. it is our common heritage; our precious and verified plan to survive, our only meaningful path to the future. i am sure the european union has many great years ahead. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
mr president, on a point of order under rule 22, and in particular rules 5(4) and 38 regarding the rights and freedoms of meps and our rights to information, on wednesday, 8 november i was one of a small group of uk meps asked to meet the uk house of commons eu exiting committee. we were going to have a short meeting, but that was cut even shorter when mr guy verhofstadt refused to enter the room until the other uk meps had left. mr hilary benn, the chair of the committee, reluctantly had to ask us to leave. the behaviour of mr verhofstadt contravened the rules i quoted, and was deliberately obstructing an exchange of views between meps and uk mps. i am going to write to you separately, but i would like to ask you to take steps to have mr verhofstadt removed as the parliament representative in the brexit negotiations and replaced by somebody impartial. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, with respect, what we have just heard is totally inaccurate. the house of commons committee on brexit was indeed in the european parliament and conducted a series of meetings with british members from the different parties, with mr verhofstadt and the brexit team, and with others. they did not, indeed, allow participants in one meeting to stay on to listen to what happened in the next of their meetings. that is perfectly reasonable and normal. to complain that he, mr batten, could not stay on for the next one of their meetings is distorting what was actually at stake. what happened was perfectly normal, proper practice and decided by the house of commons – which they pretend to respect the sovereignty of – and yet they clearly have no respect whatsoever for the workings of the house of commons.
mr president, governor jerry brown came here and gave us an interesting talk. we all made our contributions, i made mine, and i was looking forward to seeing it on the parliament’s tv thing. sadly, i was excluded, as was mr peter lundgren, and mr steven woolfe was also excluded. it gave rather the impression that the entire parliament favoured the co2 method of global warming. that really is not the case, and it makes it look as if parliament is being managed. i know you sir, and one of the reasons i voted for you – and i think you are a good man – is that you promised to protect minority views, and i know that you do. perhaps you have not seen this, but it is bad if they put out propaganda that does not look as if it represents all the views. i would like to bring that to your attention. (applause)
mr president, just a point of clarification, if i may: i was present at the meeting when the house of commons committee came to talk to us. our colleague across the chamber is not correct, because the chairman of that committee – hilary benn – was quite relaxed about the meps who were present, who we had had a brief discussion before with, about them remaining in the meeting with mr verhofstadt. that is just a point of clarification. the house of commons committee, led by hilary benn, were quite happy for the meps, including the british ones, to be present at the next meeting. it was mr verhofstadt – it is obviously his choice – who had decided or determined that the meps should not remain. i will leave you with that thought. (applause)
mr president, this is a point of order under rule 38. i have learned that mr barnier met with the gue/ngl group yesterday to discuss brexit. he has made no effort at all to speak with the efdd as a group. you know that verhofstadt has excluded all eurosceptic groups from the brexit steering committee. please instruct them to include all meps in their discussions. if we do not have the information, we cannot express an opinion, and then that is a restriction of our rights. (applause)
madam president, ‘very, very good proposal’, although he might not be so happy with the implications of the new anti-dumping measures parliament voted for today. as europeans, we pride ourselves on our high environmental and social standards, but if the commission were serious, they would give legal status to process and production methods, a world trade organisation initiative to ensure that consumers can have information about the environmental and social impacts of the products they are buying. during the climate talks in bonn, trump’s administration is unapologetically carrying the beacon for dirty coal. to be consistent with the paris agreement, we within the eu must use trade restrictions in response. over the weekend, thousands of ‘ende gelände’ activists stormed a coal mine in germany calling for an end to fossil fuels. their action needs legislative back-up from us as their democratic representatives. we cannot be pro-climate and pro-trade simultaneously if we are not willing to introduce restrictions on products relying on dirty coal.
madam president, today i backed vital eu action to prevent the dumping of cheap imports onto our market. these rules have long been called for by the steel industry, given that goods sold below the cost of production are putting thousands of jobs at risk across the continent. that is why i am baffled as to why the uk government has announced that it is not planning to match these protections after brexit, making the uk steel sector a sitting duck for cheap chinese products. in my region, in the west midlands, it means bread and butter for no less than 260 000 people. that is the number of jobs that depend on the steel industry in the west midlands that are being put at risk by the tories. i call on the uk government to reconsider its reckless approach to brexit that is devastating the economy, and at least ensure our businesses can fight with equal weapons following the uk’s departure from the eu.
madam president, the whole premise of this debate is wrong – the whole tenor of the arguments we have just been hearing from my friends in the socialist group about cheap imports, as though they are a bad thing. think of what lower prices mean for people on low incomes! the countries that have done best are the ones who did not worry about cheap imports, about dumping if you want to call it that. they took the view that, if foreign taxpayers wanted to subsidise their own consumers, that was more foolish of the foreign taxpayers and very nice for their consumers, and the hong kongs, the singapores, more recently the australias and new zealands, all benefited by opening their markets without insisting on reciprocity. behind all of this talk about protectionism and anti-dumping lies the reality that protectionism is a way of transferring wealth from entrepreneurs to politically connected old companies, from start-ups to companies with unionised labour, from the many to the few, and frankly from the poor to the rich.
madam president, those countries that have escaped the fatal grip of communist soviet union – namely armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine – all deserve our support as they move towards democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as well as support for a market economy, sustainable development and good governance. that is why i am pleased to be voting in favour of this motion, and we should all be committed to a stronger, more democratic and more successful eastern neighbourhood to the european union. but at the same time, we should not try to force them all into a straitjacket of one single answer to their problems. the brotherhood of nations belongs in the hearts of men, not in supranational institutions.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the legacy of the 1917 bolshevik coup d'état is the oppression and murder of hundreds of millions of people. that legacy continues in places like china, cuba and north korea. the ideology that inspired the bolsheviks caused this human tragedy. marxism is supposed to be scientific. it cannot be wrong. therefore, it believes it is justifiable to sweep away anyone who opposes it by any means. the essential evil at the heart of marxism is the idea that the end justifies the means. that idea unites communism and nazism. they are two sides of the same totalitarian coin. marxism is nonsense. marxist parties that seize power become dictatorships with only one goal – their own self-preservation. look at the chinese communist party today for evidence of that. the nazis pulled the gold teeth out of murdered jews. the chinese communist party today oversees a totalitarian system where they not only imprison and kill dissidents of any kind, but harvest and sell their organs for a multi-billion dollar organ transplant industry. under marxism, any depravity becomes justifiable, but marxists tell us it is not real marxism and we need to try again. the bolshevik coup proves just how fragile civilisation is and how the ideas behind it must be resisted by all of those who love freedom, liberty and decency.
mr president, winston churchill famously said that the inherent vice of capitalism is the unequal sharing of blessings and the inherent virtue of socialism is the equal sharing of misery. and that misery was famine, suffering, repression, and political suppression. it is interesting that the communists in this place delight in freedom of speech by extolling a regime and political idea that took that away from millions of people over 70 years. they should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves. freedom is only ever one generation away from extinction. those who are wary of anyone concentrating power in one place should always be on their guard. look at those with power. how did they get it? ask those with power what they are going to do with it, and if necessary, ask them how we can take it away from them. the price of freedom is always eternal vigilance.
mr president, the legacy: hundreds of millions of people dead and democracy crushed across half of europe for generations. if it had not been for ronald reagan and margaret thatcher, who ended the cold war in the 1980s, the death toll would have grown higher and democracy would have continued to be denied to hundreds of millions of people. so what is relevant today as the world faces threats from other unelected totalitarian regimes? the democratic west must resolutely stand up for freedom, for self—determination and for democracy, and not allow the artificial imposition of borders imposed by any small, unelected ruling elite. as president reagan famously said in words that were unattributed a few minutes ago: ‘freedom is never more the one generation away from extinction’. he went on to say: ‘we didn’t pass it to our children in the bloodstream. it must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same’. that is the lesson all in this parliament should accept.
mr president, president gorbachev famously proclaimed that the eu was the old soviet union dressed in western clothing. the erosion of democracy and sovereignty has been incremental. nothing has been done by force, but allegedly in the public’s best interests, with power grabs from crisis or through mass migration. even the modern day pravda journal observed striking similarities between the lisbon treaty and its communist predecessors. former soviet dissident, vladimir bukovsky, warned of disturbing similarities between the ussr and blueprints for the eu superstate. he said the european commission was the politburo in view of the secretive way in which power is exercised. the european parliament, he added, is a mere rubber—stamp institution like the supreme soviet of the old ussr. thankfully, the biggest difference between the eu and the ussr is a constitutional pathway out of the union. i am proud that the... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, comrades, socialism has been the most catastrophic political experiment in history, responsible for the deaths of millions. socialism is completely unnatural to mankind. all forms of socialism lead inexorably to dictatorship of the bureaucrat and not the proletariat. socialism can only achieve equality through authoritarian bureaucratic police states. capitalism and its concomitant economic and political liberty provides the greatest material wealth for the greatest number of people. furthermore, capitalism fits well with the rule of law and democracy. the european union follows its socialist predecessors, trying to achieve bureaucratic authoritarianism by sleight of hand and by salami-slicing legislation, rather than soviet tanks and guns. however, all socialism leads to the same thing – in this case a pan-european police state where elected catalonian politicians are deported on a european arrest warrant. socialism is a complete infringement of human rights.
mr president, freedom, liberty, democracy: those words roll off the tongue so easily, don’t they? yet we forget how hard they were to win. this debate reminds us how the ideology of extreme socialism leads to poverty, violence and, indeed, to the loss of that freedom. this debate also reminds us how dangerous a political ideology is when, as mr timmermans says, the only things that matter are the goals dictated by the state. and yet, this debate is being turned into an anti-populist debate rather than concerning itself with the evil of communism. we hear today that populists are the dangers – the dangerous people – yet we are not the ones who are trying to forge a new eu extreme ideology of a flag, a council, a parliament and its own anthem on people who do not want it.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i have listened to the commissioner’s speech with interest, and you may be surprised to know i have been calling for railways to be electrified. unfortunately, many of these projects have been dropped in the uk. i see all the benefits of electric vehicles; however, i do have some concerns. currently in the uk, we do not have enough rapid chargers to support the growth of electric vehicles. we need industry leaders to speed up the rollout of chargers. our local planning authorities should streamline this process. the best way to encourage the public to adopt electric vehicles is to allow nation states to cut taxes and import tariffs. let’s remove red tape and allow the market to take its course.
mr president, let me add my thanks to the ombudsman and her officials for their work in this past year. i want to raise the ‘b’ word at this point in the debate, and i hope colleagues will forgive me, because that process – whatever views we take on it, and i deeply regret the course that history appears to be taking – must carry public confidence and legitimacy. fundamental to securing that public confidence and legitimacy will be transparency and the ability of citizens in the uk and other member states to have access to the right information to shape their views as this process unfolds. that will, of course, happen through democratic institutions like this parliament and, indeed, in the house of commons in the uk. democratic legitimacy in the brexit process did not end on 23 june last year. in many ways, that has to be the start of democratic legitimacy and scrutiny of what is happening. so, without further delay, the uk government should publish the sector impact statements on brexit. i also ask the ombudsman in this coming year to give particular focus to ensuring that the highest levels of transparency are secured throughout the brexit process in order to give citizens in all our member states the right to make their own judgments about what is happening. i specifically ask the ombudsman to consider releasing specific resources in her good offices to support that and to make sure that the highest levels – i stress the highest levels – of transparency and democratic legitimacy are heard and realised all the way through what will be a difficult and challenging process for all of us.
mr president, the european institutions are complex, intertwined organisations that can – to many citizens – seem impenetrable and faceless. as a result, we are often misunderstood by those we aim to serve. now with the chaotic brexit negotiations, the rights of so many uk and eu citizens are in the balance. the continued drive of the european ombudsman towards better transparency, communication and working practice in response to citizens’ concerns about the institutions and bodies of the european union is particularly crucial during difficult times such as these. our european organisations must be continually shaped by the feedback of our citizens, and there must be more opportunities for young people and children to participate meaningfully in our institutional workings and to offer up opinions about the decisions that will affect them. in that respect, i would like to recommend the work of the children’s ombudsman in poland, whom i recently met and who is certainly following best practice in his department and across the country. i am particularly pleased that you, the ombudsman here in europe, have been making inquiries into complaints by persons with disabilities. it is gratifying to hear the work that they have been carrying out as an independent mechanism to protect and implement the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities so that everybody may access, engage and question the institutions in order to make our practices align better with our principles.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the environmental implementation review (eir) is an eu instrument designed to monitor the implementation of eu environmental law and policy. the eir affords the commission a more proactive role, enabling it to monitor the implementation of eu environmental law in member states. this scheme would diminish the discretionary margin of member states when implementing the directives and would transfer additional powers to eu institutions. in my opinion, it would be far better to provide a mechanism which would engage with eu citizens directly and which would promote awareness, increase involvement and educate the general public about the environment. i do not think that a new eu legislative instrument monitoring the application of unilaterally imposed legislation is the answer to the improvement of environmental policies in the eu. i believe that member states should have the freedom to set their own targets rather than being forced to comply with those set by the unelected commission.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work done on this report, which my group will support. we know that inequalities damage our entire social fabric, they are costly to our societies in many ways and the european union has a limited number of tools at its disposal. part of the question is whether it is using the tools it has got as effectively as it might. i think all of us welcome the idea of the social pillar, we would just like to see something a bit less flimsy, which will, we hope, be more sustainable. we also need to look at how we relate tackling inequalities to our commitments on the sustainable development goals because they link with this report in many areas: on gender equality, on decent work, on poverty reduction and many others. there is an obvious need, as we all acknowledge, to tackle extreme poverty. i think many of us are still affronted by the fact that the european union has so many food banks because people cannot afford to feed themselves and their families. we need to look at how we use the european semester as a way of moving forward on this social inequalities agenda. many members have spoken about tax justice and it is true that the tax justice agenda is a crucial part of closing the gap. it provides additional monies for essential social investment, along with better targeting of the eu money we have available. we should be looking at the creation of decent work. it is scandalous that we are seeing a growth in in-work poverty, so issues such as the living wage are becoming essential. health and care, the green economy, education and lifelong learning are areas ripe for increased investment, as is the social inclusion agenda. part of that, of course, is making sure everybody has an equal opportunity in society, and that is where the anti-discrimination agenda becomes really important.
madam president, it is heartbreaking to hear constituents come to me – it seems week in, week out – who are suffering under zero—hours contracts. for people who don’t know what zero—hours contracts are, it is where you go to work one day and you wait for a phone call to tell you whether you are needed in work the next day. for the purpose of statistics, the government considers that to be actual employment. that is an absolute disgrace. we have one million people in the united kingdom, one million workers, who are on zero—hours contracts, which means they are going back to casual labour. if any government wants actually to reduce the inequalities and give people back dignity and pride in the workplace, they need to clamp down and stop zero—hours contracts because we have so many problems in the united kingdom. universal credit has been a disaster: people have to wait six weeks for their benefit payments to come through. if you want to get people into work, get rid of zero—hours contracts, give them decent, well paid jobs that are for the long term and can sustain a family.
madam president, when there are inequalities there can be no social justice, and when there is no social justice there can be no fully functioning democracy. growing inequality is not only a loss to economic potential, as this report brilliantly demonstrates, it is also at the root of the rising populism and extremism that sows division in our communities and threatens european values. years of austerity politics have only made things worse, in particular in my country, as well as in greece, portugal, spain and ireland. i want to highlight the particular situation of women, who are more impacted by public cuts and are at higher risk of poverty and precariousness. in addition, they face multiple discrimination. however, the economic potential of women can be unlocked across europe through anti-discrimination measures and ambitious and efficient social policies. i also want to reiterate that the number of children living in, or at risk of, poverty in our societies in 2017 is simply shameful. we need to adopt the eu child guarantee now, a guarantee that i have fought for in this house. fighting inequalities can boost job creation and sustainable growth. we must include, therefore, a proper welcome for newcomers, refugees and asylum seekers, and include them in the labour market as part of the strategy. combating inequalities must mobilise all eu instruments, including the european semester, the eu structural and investment funds and the youth employment initiative and youth guarantee, and we must also be ready to apply the european pillar of social rights and have recourse to the european solidarity corps. we, as decision makers, need to mainstream this shared goal in our work across various policy areas, in a coordinated manner: working in silos is no longer the solution. the report demonstrates the importance of clear convergence between our duty as humans and our economic interest. the question is, therefore, what are we still waiting for?
madam president, first, i would like to congratulate my excellent colleague javi lópez on his excellent report. it is a brilliant piece of work. then i would like to use this little bit of time to pick up on two points in the report. point 31 refers, as we have heard from other colleagues, to zero—hours contracts. we have heard how in the united kingdom there are now more than a million people on zero—hours contracts. my region, the west midlands, contains proportionally more of those people than any other part of the united kingdom, and the growth in the number of those people in the most recent year recorded by the uk’s office for national statistics was 10%. this is a growing and serious problem and it requires legislative action to deal with it. a zero—hours contract is not work – it is exploitation, and it should not be acceptable in a civilised society in this day and age. it is linked with the second point in the report that i would like to pick up on, point 42, about the failure to apply the working time directive and the widespread abuse of unpaid overtime. there are five million people in the uk regularly, systematically working overtime for which they are not being paid. gbp 33 billion worth of overtime work that has been done has not been paid for. why do employers get away with that kind of exploitation, with stealing gbp 33 billion worth of work from their employees? the answer is because at least a million of those employees are on zero—hours contracts or in similarly insecure forms of employment where they will put up with being exploited because they are frightened of losing their jobs. that is not the way it should be in a rich and supposedly civilised continent like ours in this century. ( the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from mr schulze)
rapporteur. – mr president, the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation, otherwise known as parc, between the european union and new zealand is a much welcomed initiative. new zealand is one of the eu’s closest partners, a country with which we share common values and interests. parc builds on the existing joint declaration signed in 2007 developing and cementing those links, allowing for closer cooperation and more regular ministerial dialogue. i am pleased as rapporteur that we have been able to include a resolution alongside our consent motion, which allows us the opportunity to reaffirm our support for the agreement and to express our strong solidarity with new zealand as a country. parc covers many of the areas that we would expect to see, and is similar in scope to the recently signed strategic partnership agreement with canada, for which i am pleased to say i was also the rapporteur. these areas include fighting terrorism and organised crime, aiding global development, working together at the multilateral level, and combating climate change and supporting sustainable development. new zealand is a leader in the renewable energy sector and has set itself ambitious targets for renewable energy production. this emphasis on combating climate change, supporting sustainable development and protecting biodiversity is very clear throughout the parc, and i strongly support this. article 15 for instance, which focuses on working together to further the wto agreement on the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures, gives a sense of the level of commitment by all parties pledged to the specific regard here. we also see parc reaffirming the terms of the framework participation agreement (fpa) signed in 2012 which allows for new zealand to contribute militarily towards european union common security and defence policy (csdp) missions. new zealand, as our resolution notes, plays an important role in contributing towards peace and international security, a role that is all the more impressive when considering its relatively small size and geographical location. its contribution, following the fpa, to the eu’s highly successful eu navfor atlanta, which was commanded from my own constituency in london, has been well received and we look forward to setting and seeing more cooperation of this kind in future. i should also mention again, highlighted in the resolution, the role that new zealand has played in the european union’s policing mission in afghanistan. indeed, it was at the sidelines of a brussels meeting concerning afghanistan that the parc agreement was signed back in october of last year 2016. looking at the resolution itself, i believe that i am speaking for the majority of this house, when i say that the positive tone taken reflects the extremely good will towards new zealand felt by this parliament and the belief that the relationship between the european union, its member states and new zealand is a force for good in the world. to conclude, i believe that the signing of parc is not only a positive development in ties between the new zealand authorities and government, and the european union, but it is part of a wider development and success story of the eu itself, where we see it working effectively to secure agreements with third countries, both in terms of political cooperation, but also for trade. having seen the passing of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the strategic partnership agreement (spa) with canada, this agreement with new zealand marks the start of an increased engagement with the pacific region, as the european union is set to start trade negotiations with new zealand shortly. it is also doing so with australia and japan in the next year or so. i believe that this will send a strong signal to all of those that doubt and seek to undermine the achievements and benefits of european union membership. this morning’s debate is a chance for this parliament to demonstrate the strong support for new zealand that exists across the entire political spectrum, as was illustrated only too clearly by the overwhelming vote in favour of these motions in the committee on foreign affairs. therefore, i look forward to hearing the rest of the debate.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, while recently in new zealand for my work on the parallel eu-new zealand free trade agreement, i was reminded of the importance of the deep and special relationship with our kiwi friends. the eu is new zealand’s third-largest trading partner, after australia and china, whilst the uk remains new zealand’s top eu export destination. eu member states and new zealand enjoy a strong partnership, sharing many common goals, with strong political, economic and cultural ties, including in multilateral organisations such as the united nations and the world trade organisation. the recently signed eu-new zealand partnership agreement on relations and cooperation (called parc for short) is an important tool in modernising these historic links. this is a parallel, but separate, agreement covering non-trade aspects, very similar to canada’s strategic partnership agreement and australia’s framework agreement. it aims to facilitate more effective bilateral engagement by strengthening political dialogue on a wide range of issues, from customs to innovation, education and culture, to migration, judicial affairs and the fight against global terrorism and cybercrime. i expect a similar strategic agreement between the eu and the uk post-brexit. i give credit to my friend and colleague charles tannock for his work in steering the parc report through the european parliament, and not leaving it parked.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it seems to me that the prospect of brexit is spurring eu interest in warming up relations, and indeed trading ties, with many of the countries eager to reach trade deals with the united kingdom after its departure. it is widely regarded as a source of shame in britain that in the 1970s our country threw up tariff barriers against our historic commonwealth friends such as australia and new zealand. that is a wrong which is soon to be righted, as the united kingdom broadens its economic and diplomatic relationships across the world, raising the priority we give to commonwealth nations, as well as seeking to sustain links with member states of the european union. new zealand is a magnificent country, a bedrock of democratic values in its region and a key part of the anglosphere, so it is good to see the eu strengthening political relationships with new zealand as well. as regards the agricultural sector, new zealand farmers are renowned the world over for their enterprising attitudes and ability to get by without any subsidies, let alone expensive and extensive networks such as those contained in the eu common agricultural policy. it is good also to hear mr hogan talking specifically about free-trade agreements with new zealand – not before time, many will think – albeit not as part of the arrangements under the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation. i believe that the united kingdom’s international trade secretary, liam fox, may be a few steps ahead of the eu in this regard. if, indeed, the prospect of brexit is serving as a catalyst for the eu to reduce its tariff walls against the ‘sunrise’ parts of the global economy, then that is yet another benefit of the united kingdom’s magnificent decision to rejoin the global family of independent sovereign nations.
mr president, i welcome the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the european union and new zealand and i want to congratulate mr tannock on a very good report. we already enjoy strong relations and share many common goals on international issues. there are many deep historical ties between northern ireland, which i represent, and new zealand. william massey, the 19th prime minister of new zealand, grew up in limavady, in county londonderry, so there is a great tie between my region and new zealand. it is vital that we build on these ties with new zealand and other commonwealth countries, while we are in the european union and also once we leave. it is clear that there is political will from both the commission and new zealand to get the ball rolling on a free-trade agreement. as rapporteur, for the agriculture committee, on trade with new zealand, i firmly believe that this has the potential to provide opportunities for our producers if a fair and balanced trade deal can be achieved. and that is the bottom line here. commissioner, you will be going off to buenos aires very shortly, for the world trade organization ministerial conference, and it will be linked to that as well. we in europe have got to be positive on trade, because if we are negative it will work against us. i heard comments earlier in this debate about europe trying to outdo the uk. i have a feeling that, while europe has left the starting post on this issue, dr fox is still in the paddock and has not even got on his horse yet. from my point of view, i think we are in a very interesting position, where europe will go ahead, and the uk will have good trade. so we will have good relations with this brilliant – lovely – country and i wish it well, with every success in the future.
mr president, i welcome the conclusion of this partnership agreement with new zealand and my congratulations too to charles tannock. in these times of increasing isolation and nationalism, i think it is of paramount importance that we join forces with partners who share our values and our world vision to advance an open rules-based global order that works for the people. as an mep in the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats group (s&d), i welcome that the recent elections in new zealand resulted in a labour-led government, championing an agenda of sustainable development. clearly, the eu and new zealand are already finding an important common cause and we are making progress on trade negotiations on which this house adopted recommendations last month. aside from trade, i hope this partnership will help us to focus our attention on a region of important mutual strategic benefit – the asia-pacific region. whether it concerns the stability in the south china sea that harbours vital shipping routes, combating climate change or addressing terrorist threats, this region is of key strategic importance to the european union and i call upon the high representative, the council and the commission to ensure that this agreement is a stepping stone to advancing our partnerships in the asia-pacific region, where new zealand is an important actor.
rapporteur. – mr president, as we wind up the debate i would first like to thank the commissioner and the shadow rapporteurs across parliament who have all been very supportive throughout the process. the report’s passage through the committee stage and the parliament has also been very smooth, and whilst this is largely due to the widespread support that exists for greater cooperation with new zealand in everything from fighting terrorism to mitigating climate change, clearly it shows that new zealand really is close to us in many ways. as i set out in my earlier speech and has been echoed throughout the house, this agreement is welcome and therefore something we can be proud of. as a brit, however, i have to admit that this is a bittersweet moment, given my country’s impending exit from the european union. there are those in britain, and in this house, sadly, that still believe in a british empire mk. ii, and that the united kingdom has been held back in freely trading and cooperating with its old commonwealth partners such as canada, australia and new zealand. the truth is that britain will now have to renegotiate from scratch, on a bilateral basis, political agreements such as this and future ftas which, by the time of brexit in 2019, will have already been concluded for the eu. this is a great pity for my country, and certainly can illustrate the increasing success that the european union is achieving now in negotiating and signing ambitious political and free trade agreements with democratic countries and economic blocs in the asia-pacific region and in the wider globe. as i conclude, my only final wish is to welcome this initiative and the eventual fta and to hope that later today we will be able to celebrate its successful adoption by parliament.
author. – mr president, a free press is one of the essentials for ensuring that a meaningful democratic system can function operating under the rule of law. without such an underpinning, other efforts and programmes aimed at improving good governance and development are always undermined. i am pleased that we are therefore taking the opportunity today to shine a spotlight on the terrible state of press freedom in sudan, particularly illustrated by the case of journalist mohamed zine al-abidine and his editor-in-chief osman mirgani. al-abidine, in a clear case of political persecution and selective justice, has been sentenced to a suspended sentence of five years, ostensibly for writing a piece alleging corruption associated with the ruling family of president omar al-bashir. whilst this is a most egregious example, it is sadly not an isolated case. in 2016, there were 44 occurrences of confiscated publications affecting 12 different newspapers, which gives you an idea of the widespread nature of such repressive practices in sudan. all of this is in clear contradiction of the cotonou agreement. i hope that today’s debate will serve as a call on the commission to remind the sudanese authorities of their obligations under international law.
mr president, in a country where widespread violations of human rights have been extensively reported by international organisations such as waging peace, the case of mohamed zine al-abidine is extremely worrying. his arrest and imprisonment follows repeated acts of intimidation and harassment, conducted by the authorities against journalists. it is clear that the sudanese government seeks to silence critical voices by means of judicial harassment, censorship and confiscation of newspapers. these unacceptable actions have been taking place in the context of total disregard by mr omar al—bashir, a total disregard for human rights and international law. he still has not been brought to justice regarding the grave accusations of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity that were filed against him several years ago. the eu must use all diplomatic channels at its disposal to urge the sudanese authorities to release mohamed zine al—abidine and all the human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents behind bars in sudan. high representative federica mogherini must also put all her efforts into presenting mr al—bashir to the international criminal court.
mr president, sudan ranks 174th out of 180 in terms of press freedom. this gives you a clear idea of the context in which journalist mohamed zine al-abidine and his editor-in-chief are facing charges for criticising alleged corruption in the family of the sudanese president al-bashir, a president who has escaped justice for organising war crimes and crimes against humanity. these journalists are not alone in facing repression. the sudanese intelligence agency has been waging an actual war on freedom of information and expression for years. there is no hope for democracy if these basic values continue to be threatened. my main concern is that the eu gives eur 100 million in aid to sudan on migration. we need to ensure that not a euro is diverted to fund surveillance and it systems that could assist in repression of journalists and media. i think that the high representative, the commission and member states need to step up support to civil society that can help and reform press and printing legislation.
author. – madam president, a lorry in mogadishu, loaded with explosives, tragically resulted in the deaths of 385 people, with many others injured and more than 100 buried without identification, due to the severity of their injuries. their loved ones will never know who they are. somalia is a land plagued with intractable problems: terrorism, drought, famine, refugee camps, crippling debt, child soldiers and the worst corruption in the world for the tenth year running. add to this the allegations of sexual violence by troops from the un-backed african union mission in somalia (amisom), the force mobilised to protect the somalian people from extremist groups, and it is clear that this is still a very fragile nation, teetering on the edge. the election of president mohamed abdullahi mohamed was a milestone in this country’s recent history and there are some positive signs that president mohamed is committed now to continuing the fight against al-shabaab. by appointing representatives from different clans to ministerial office, he is also building unity across a very fractured society. the eu, too, must now do what it can by encouraging dialogue between the social sectors and ensuring that allegations against amisom troops are thoroughly investigated and that those responsible are rapidly brought to justice.
madam president, the bombing in central mogadishu on 14 october was one of the most lethal terrorist attacks in recent years. it killed over 350 people, left more than 200 injured, and many are still missing. al-shabaab, the organisation responsible for such barbarity, had not itself foreseen the scale of its own operation. they did not even claim public responsibility for the loss of so many lives, for fear of angering the citizens and losing support for their insurgency. the population did not even have time to mourn for these victims before yet another brutal attack took place on 28 october. somalia is under attack, and it needs our support to continue. i therefore appeal to the african union and the united nations: this is not the time to withdraw troops from the country. we cannot abandon somalia in their time of need. only with a joint effort can we hope to defeat the terrorists and soon restore peace in somalia.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i am taking this point on behalf of vice-president mogherini. she welcomes, of course, the interest of the house in the situation in madagascar, which is entering a critical period in its history. it is important that we assess the political climate as we approach the presidential election, which is due a year from now. ensuring credible, inclusive and transparent elections has been mentioned by many members in this house, and is a means of addressing a number of systemic issues, and doing so well before the electoral campaign itself has begun. successful elections can only take place if citizens feel safe and secure, if candidates are free to run, if human rights and fundamental freedoms are demonstrably protected, and if the rule of law is maintained. it is also important that the legislative framework for the elections should be prepared in an inclusive manner, both before and during passage through the parliamentary system. we are naturally concerned in the commission about reports of violence and intimidation in madagascar. these must be transparently investigated. detention and harassment of journalists and civil society activists also cannot be ignored and is being followed up by our eu delegation in antananarivo. i want to assure ms kyenge that we continue to believe that madagascar can enjoy a positive future if it can break the cycle of political crisis which has held back the development of resilient institutions and viable long-term reforms, which the country needs and which the eu is highly committed to supporting. there is urgent work to be done, as 90% of the population live on less than usd 2 per day and almost one in two children suffer from malnutrition. there is widespread social exclusion, and women and children are suffering in particular from exploitation. health care and the environment are also critical priorities. the challenges that are faced by human rights defenders and advocates of reform in madagascar are complex and substantial. they stem from a culture of impunity which has allowed corruption to persist, but are exacerbated by specific issues such as disputes over land ownership and a lack of confidence in decentralised administration across this enormous and complex country. for ordinary people, difficulty in accessing information and in confronting a dysfunctional public administration leads to a sense of helplessness and encourages vigilante justice and other unacceptable means of conflict resolution. even when the european union’s relations with madagascar were constrained under article 96 of the cotonou agreement, we continued to maintain a strong partnership with civil society. since the holding of democratic elections in 2013 and the restoration of constitutional order, we have fully resumed our cooperation, but we must recognise that the challenges faced by madagascar can only be comprehensively addressed with stronger institutions and more accountability. for madagascar this is a critical period but also a period of opportunity. the union will continue to encourage the progress which is needed in democratic consolidation. we recall the african union charter on democracy, elections and governance, which sets out a clear democratic vision, including key elements for a successful election, such as strengthening of independent and impartial national electoral bodies, the maintenance of national mechanisms that redress election-related disputes, and ensuring fair and equitable access to state-controlled media during elections. in relation to the action the european union is taking on a regular basis, i would remind the house that our high representative ms mogherini regularly raises these issues in relation to human rights, including madagascar, and has raised them as recently as the our ocean conference in malta, or the last donors conference in paris. these are where the concerns about human rights are raised by the eu’s highest level, as mr preda has acknowledged and has indicated. the eu is focusing all development and humanitarian aid on poverty reduction and is linking our budget support to human rights criteria. ms charanzová and mr kelly have mentioned the importance of having free and fair elections. the european union is focusing on financial support and technical support to the national electoral commission and to civil society, to assist in the organisation of these particular elections. can i also say to mr kelly and to other members that the support we are giving to madagascar to have free and fair elections, in addition to the technical support, is a priority for the european union in relation to electoral observation in 2018. next week we will have a very important occasion when the african union and the european union will be launching the external investment fund which has been proposed by jean-claude juncker, president of the european commission. i have regular contacts with the african union commissioner for agriculture and we are working on developing technology transfer and vocational training and other development projects around how we can improve the position of women in agriculture – in particular in africa and indeed in madagascar – in order to get the benefits of the great cooperation of the eu and the african union, but also to improve the lot of ordinary people through agriculture and food on the african continent, including madagascar.
madam president, i am rising under rule 11(3). it is clear from the intervention of ms jacqueline foster yesterday that mr corbett has misrepresented the role of mr verhofstadt in relation to the committee of westminster mps that visited brussels re brexit. it is a most serious matter to misrepresent... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i am grateful for permission to make this intervention. i rise in relation to two rules: rule 184a and rule 198. in relation to rule 198, i seek that you, as the president, look to the house to form a committee that looks at the appalling and abysmal behaviour of saudi arabia towards the people of yemen, and the funding of any projects of the european union with saudi arabia. as you are fully aware, the cholera crisis in yemen is now reaching 1 million people. there are children dying daily in their hundreds and saudi arabia has decided to block the ports, the airports and any travel in, also not permitting people to treat those children. the european union has a responsibility to deal with the suffering of those people in yemen and i ask you under rule 198 that this parliament seeks to censure saudi arabia.
madam president, what an amazing country new zealand is: 4 million people, as remote geographically as any territory in the world, totally dependent on international trade, and yet it has gone a quarter of a century without a single quarter of negative economic growth. how? by international global commerce. yet, here is the amazing thing: no one in new zealand is suggesting that in order to succeed they need to join a customs union with malaysia or join a political union with nauru, or even join a single currency with australia. they have managed to succeed by living under their own laws, while remaining interested and engaged in the affairs of every country on every continent. it is a natural healthy thing to be independent and to trade. commerce does not require political union.
madam president, i welcome this report, especially the section on helping people with disabilities achieve secure employment. four years ago, when norwich’s remploy factory shut, the department for work and pensions (dwp) said that funding should be focused on helping disabled people into mainstream jobs, but where is that funding now? the replacement for the dwp’s work program has seen its funding slashed by three-quarters. the british government has gone back on its word. remploy did as was asked and today helps people with disabilities find and keep mainstream jobs. what they do worked. when i spoke to them they told me about milo, who secured a full-time job working on cromer pier, and brandon, who said it is thanks to remploy that he now feels that he has a future. but now remploy in norwich is set to close, and experienced employment coaches will lose their jobs. the british government talks warm words about helping disabled people into work, but is high time that they put their money where their mouth is.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there is a deep irony in the fact that the eu-china tourism year and the european year of cultural heritage will both take place next year. we will celebrate and promote european cultural diversity, while at the same time working to improve opportunities to increase economic cooperation, in the words of the european commission, with a regime that represses such diversity in its own territory, often with the utmost brutality and with a blatant disregard for human rights. i am thinking particularly of tibet, where culture and religion have been the target of relentless oppression at the same time as their remnants are being used to boost chinese tourism. we should not forget that while tibetans themselves are not permitted to travel freely and while many tibetans live in extreme poverty, the chinese state-sponsored tourism industry reaps the benefits of the appropriation of tibetan culture and history. in fact, tibetans are rarely employed by this industry and are not even required to give their consent to huge infrastructure projects aimed at boosting tourism. i have never been to china but it is clearly a diverse, rich and fascinating country. neither have i visited tibet, although what i have learned about the country and its culture through my work in the european parliament is compelling. my own choice would be to avoid visiting an occupied country that is being deprived of its right to self-determination and i would urge others to follow this policy. much closer to home, in july this year liverpool fc signed a controversial sponsorship deal with tibet water resources limited that exploits the natural resources of tibet to the detriment of the local population and the environment. such commercial agreements not only lend legitimacy to china’s occupation of tibet but are, in fact, only possible because of it. this sponsorship deal puts the club and the city of liverpool at the centre of china’s on-going occupation of tibet. i know that this does not reflect the views of either the fans or the city, and i urge the club to reconsider this misguided and ill-considered deal. we also need to consider whether this is the kind of reckless international economic cooperation that we want to promote as eu institutions. the unfortunate timing of the eu-china tourism year sends a signal that economic interests are once again being prioritised over human rights. in concluding, i urge the commission to put human rights firmly on the agenda with our international partners, for example by calling on beijing to restart talks with the representatives of his holiness the dalai lama that have been stalled since 2010. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much for that question. i have a very pragmatic response which is to say that the commission, when negotiating trade deals and when thinking about its economic partnerships, should place human rights and high social and environmental standards right at the heart. a good way to do that will be to support the binding human rights charter for global corporations, which is currently being negotiated by the un. unfortunately, the eu has sided with the usa and with the corporations in not supporting that binding charter, but that is a very practical way in which we can defend human rights through our economic partnerships and through our trade policy.
madam president, on a point of order: just to ask ms in ‘t veld if her same commitment to freedom of speech also applies within the european parliament, not just outside it.
rapporteur. – madam president, earlier this year this house approved an increase of parliament’s budget for 2018 by 2.3%. bearing in mind the exceptional additional costs involved in the security threats and also the effect of inflation, i thought this both reasonable and justified. i was therefore pleased to note that the council was prepared to match parliament’s restraint. they too proposed a budget increase of 2.3%. having taken that as a benchmark, i am therefore happy to announce to the house that the overall increase for the other sections in 2018 has been agreed at 2.4%. i am satisfied that this budget enables us to meet three objectives. first, it ensures the institutions have the capacity to meet challenges that lie ahead. second, that it observes fiscal discipline and, third, that it delivers value for money to european taxpayers. this is a budget of eur 160 billion, and clearly there has to be a spirit of compromise between the two budget authorities: parliament and the council. i was particularly pleased to report that we have been able to provide funding for strategic communications. this i know has been a major concern to a number of parliamentary committees. on the other hand, some of the institutions will be disappointed with the settlement, and here i mention particularly the court of justice. i will continue to work closely with the commission to ensure that additional funds be made available, should that be required to reflect their increased workload. finally, president i would like to put on record my thanks and appreciation, first to the estonian presidency and minister kevinin and his team. second, to commissioner öttinger and his team for the spirit of helpful cooperation, to the chair of the committee on budgets, jean arthuis, who guided the process so well, to rapporteur jens geier, but most of all to my fellow rapporteur, siegfried mureşan, who has worked incredibly hard and has, in my opinion, done an excellent job. president, this budget is a good outcome for parliament and i commend it to the house.
blue-card question. – there is an impressive list of amounts of spending, there are areas where you feel there should be more. do you not feel that – since, yes, the uk government may well be about to accede to demands for huge sums of money to leave – after the uk contribution dries up, surely this place should be starting to look at cutting back, because you are not going to have the cash-cow to milk anymore? so, surely it is now time to look at cuts rather than demanding more excess?
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, let’s hear it for commissioner oettinger, the german commissioner in charge of the european union budget. you, sir, are having a very good day. christmas has come early – you must be delighted. the british government is going to shell out a cool eur 50 billion as part of our exit proceedings, which, when you think about it, is really rather odd, is it not, because 23 june 2016 wasn’t just significant politically, it was significant for the european union budget. we have been a net contributor to the eu budget every single year since 1973. for most of those years we have been the second biggest contributor and we pay in 16% of the total european union budget. but, of course, we are leaving. so logic says that if, for example, a family has an annual income and that income declines, they then have cheaper holidays, they cut their cloth according to their circumstances. and yet, when we look at the 2018 budget or the commission projections for the next few years, we see that absolutely no account is being taken of the british leaving the european union. you have decided simply to carry on regardless. and it would appear that in a very weak moment the british prime minister has decided to bail you out for it. well, i would just say ‘don’t bank on it’ because i think there is going to be a huge public reaction to this extraordinary sum of money. honestly, i do! i think there is a real prospect of there being a big rebellion within the conservative party against their own leader. so don’t think this is absolutely guaranteed. certainly, the line that i have always taken is that no deal is better than a bad deal, and in this case it’s worse than a bad deal because we don’t even know if we are going to get a trade deal in return. even if there was a firm offer of tariff-free access to the eu single market, it would not be worth the eur 50 billion payment. so celebrate for today, commissioner, but i promise you, it is not in the bag. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the fact that the office of budget responsibility is giving a bearish prognosis for the uk economy does not necessarily mean that they are right. we had lots of people, lots of big organisations telling us that if we did not join the euro we were headed for ruin, and thank god we didn’t do it! yes, i am aware of the extent to which our money, recycled through the european union, comes back to british universities and some of it comes back to be very well spent in research. i acknowledge that and i understand that but, equally, much of it comes back to fund things like jean monnet professorships in british universities to teach a completely slanted, distorted view of history. we would rather spend the money ourselves.
madam president, we are here today to debate the agreement on the european union budget for 2018, but it would seem to me that the european union budgets for 2019, 2020 and as far as is reasonably foreseeable into the future might just as well have also been agreed. the united kingdom has been a net contributor to the european union since we joined it in the 1970s and it was one of the richest countries in europe. as members we have always paid in more than we got out and will continue to do so again in 2018 because those are the rules and because we are still members, despite the fact that by the end of 2018 it will be two and a half years since the uk voted to leave the eu in that referendum. of course, according to this budget, we will still be paying in over gbp 18 billion a year gross and then get back roughly half of that in rebate and eu funding. bizarrely though, it seems that the uk will still be paying into the european union after leaving the eu, whether it is gbp 40 billion, or gbp 50 billion – eur 45 or 55 billion. the uk has no legal liability whatsoever to pay any form of divorce bill. of course if you have an agreement, then you expect something in return for your money. yet theresa may has surrendered that. she is expected to surrender too on the northern ireland border and to surrender too to allow european courts jurisdiction over the eu post-brexit, which is what we voted to get out of in the first place. the killer question though for the british prime minister is this: can you show us one single thing that you have actually obtained in return? show us one concession that has been made on the eu side because all we see is you caving in whilst british ‘remain’ politicians egg you on. of course you cannot, so in 2018 the british taxpayer will continue to foot the bill. and when it comes to that divorce bill, that is the equivalent of gbp 1 000 for every adult in the uk, without any guarantee of anything in return, that has been signed up to by theresa may. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – of course, in any negotiation, you want a little bit of give and take and you want something to happen on both sides, but what we have got at the moment is all ‘give’ from the british prime minister’s side and all ‘take’ from the european union side. when you start from the legal basis on this, where the treaties under article 50, subsection 3 of the lisbon treaty say that the treaties shall cease to apply, that overrides all other things. the hierarchy of norms applies. so there is no legal requirement for the uk to pay. of course, if you leave and services have already been provided, then there is a reason to say ‘yes, pay something for that’. but of course there are arguments on both sides and the uk could easily take aim, for example, at a share of the european investment bank.
blue-card question. – regarding this money that has been spent on propaganda, i would like to know if you think that there is far too much european propaganda by the european parliament, such as the house of history? i call it the house of horrors; it does not seem to relate to any reality i know of. do you not think that money should be cut from that budget instead of spending a lot of money saying how wonderful the european union is and how wonderful the president, the chair and all the rest of them are? what do you think, sir?
madam president, the european union budget is indeed like christmas in that it comes round at the same time every year. i would say to the council, in thanking everyone for their work, that the least we can do, when we know that the budget is coming around at the same time every year, is to come to the negotiations with a proper mandate so that we can make progress in a businesslike fashion. i hope that will be taken on board in the future. you cannot have everything in a budget, but i would welcome much of the progress that was made, particularly in areas such as youth unemployment, which remain particularly urgent. however, i would say to the commissioner that, where there are perhaps issues with take-up, i hope he would undertake to look urgently at how these programmes can be simplified in the future. i also welcome the progress on horizon 2020 and erasmus. this is not remote stuff, this is real research, real students educated, real lives transformed, real lives saved through that research, and new frontiers of humanity pushed forward.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, so yet again the commission wants further help from member states in meeting energy and climate targets, but what damage is being done trying to meet these artificial targets? the continued imposition by the commission of never-ending objectives for emissions reductions is forcing the investment of vast amounts of money for activity that will have little or no effect on the climate. global co2 emissions will probably keep rising unaffected by these measures. these policies are leading to a massive exit of industry and investment from eu countries to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards and could ultimately increase emissions of co2. so we are not so much cutting emissions in the eu as exporting them. indeed, if you include emissions related to goods imported into the eu, emissions in the eu have actually gone up. heavy industry, including the cement, steel, aluminium and chemical sectors, is moving factories and jobs out of the eu, leading to a leakage of co2 emissions without environmental benefits. this is a particular concern in germany, which has the largest industrial base in europe. in poland electricity prices may double if coal—fired power stations close down. cement producers have warned that about 80% of production will be offshored. in britain, overdependence on expensive and intermittent renewables has forced up energy prices. professor dieter helm from oxford university recently carried out a study for the british government and said that green taxes will cost the average household almost gbp 150 from next year. we need to stop this right now and have a balanced energy approach, using methods which are competitive and work with industry, not against it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for that. i am quite happy to look at all options in this, but what is clear is that things which were made in the eu are now being made abroad and so the co2 emission involved in this is now elsewhere, so we have exported that emission. i am happy to look at everything and i think the experts will be looking at this, but it is a flawed policy and it will be exposed as a flawed policy.
madam president, those of us who are involved in the day—to—day parliamentary work on the union’s climate and energy strategy have a clear sight of the extent of the ambition and the complexity of the task in drawing together so many different pieces of legislation into a coherent plan. that is what energy union means. it is a simple concept, but it has a hugely complex challenge in its delivery. we are on track to achieve the 20% renewable energy target in 2020. okay, that is good, but we also have a situation where some member states have vastly over-achieved their renewable energy targets but, if they are generating the rest of their power, including their baseload, from dirty coal, do they deserve a bouquet or a brickbat? i am very happy that gdp has started to rise without a parallel rise in emissions, a clear rebuttal to those who say that europe is only achieving reductions because of economic downturn. as a rapporteur for ets phase 4 and an active participant in many of the other files, i am only too aware that more needs to be done. i welcome the commission’s third report on the state of the union, but would ask them to do more. europe must fight hard for a pre—eminent position in innovation, in battery technology, smart grids, interconnectors and so much more. so much of our ambition will only be delivered if we ensure that funding is available to bridge gaps in the commercialisation of new technology across energy generation, distribution and efficiency. i agree with the commissioner that a fair and socially just system is necessary, but i firmly believe that dealing with energy poverty should be part of a much broader union strategy for jobs and growth. it is very important that we do not hold up or compromise high—level strategic planning and decision—making on the energy union through differences of opinion on social policy.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the instrument contributing to stability and peace is an important tool, as underlined by the european commission, most recently in the form of the global strategy. existing tools allow for direct financial support to be given by the eu to police forces, but there are gaps in its ability to make similar provision to other civilian security forces; forces that are often vital to ensuring peace and stability. it is these gaps that this revision hopes to plug. it is important to note that financing options will be limited to non-lethal weapons. so these changes are far removed from representing a move towards financing military hardware by the back door, as some critics have wrongly claimed. indeed, one of the examples given as a potential use of this instrument would be for the eu mission in mali for the purposes of financing a garrison of medical facilities. the emphasis is clearly very much based around the mantra of security as a precondition of successful development. and it is on this basis that i strongly support the excellent report by mr danjean.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i too remain deeply concerned about the large and unacceptable levels of civilian deaths allegedly due to the poor targeting or even indiscriminate targeting of civilian areas by the saudi-led coalition in this tragic conflict – actions that must be condemned in the strongest terms. continued attacks on saudi territory by the houthi rebels too, however, cannot be tolerated and its recent targeting of riyadh’s international airport in a missile attack points to the escalating nature of this conflict. credible reports that the missile was supplied by iran further illustrate the complications. meanwhile, the people of yemen are suffering from the largest humanitarian crisis in recent times. the saudi-led naval blockade is leading to unacceptable food and medical supply shortages. poor sanitary conditions have also led to a tragic cholera outbreak of epidemic proportions as the number of cases is set to reach one million by the close of this year, only a few months after the first reported case. i therefore echo calls for the eu and member states to continue their support for the efforts of ismail ahmed in trying to negotiate a peace in his role as un special envoy. this tragedy must stop, and all war crimes must be investigated and all those brought to justice.
amnesty international describes the current conflict in yemen as the forgotten war. more than two and a half years of brutal bombardment from a saudi-led coalition has received very little media attention. civilians are the first victims of this conflict. millions of people, particularly women and children, are now living in horrific conditions. the european union must therefore use all means at its disposal to demand the opening of a humanitarian corridor in order to provide water, food, shelter and medical attention. as europeans we must call out our own governments for the responsibility they bear in the widespread human rights violations in yemen. not only have france and the uk backed saudi arabia in the conflict, some member states have also contributed to the extrajudicial killings led by the us. under the pretence of war against terrorism, the trump administration has hugely increased the size and scale of its operations on yemeni territory, including destructive air and drone strikes. i am ashamed that my country contributes to the devastating situation of the yemeni people by sharing intelligence with trump’s criminal administration and helping them find locations for strikes. other eu governments are also involved in these widespread human rights violations. germany plays a crucial role in this programme through a satellite relay station located on its territory that allows us drones to function and italy allows the us government to fly drones across libya from its sigonella airbase. we must expose the west’s cooperation with saudi arabia, and in this respect theresa may’s most recent visit this week to saudi is ineffective and hypocritical. the saudi bombs dropping on yemen say ‘made in britain’.
mr president, ‘disappointing’ is the only way i can describe last week’s news that uk cities like nottingham will not be allowed to bid to be european capital of culture in 2023. it is disappointing because all the uk candidate cities would have been excellent capitals of culture, but more disappointing because i believe this is a direct consequence of brexit and also a consequence of the ineffective way that the uk tory government has acted since the referendum. it’s vital, in my view, that we know how many times the uk government raised with the european union representatives the specifics of the capital of culture rules and process before last week’s news. and it is ironic that we hear supposed anger about the news from those who campaigned for brexit. however, mr president, i appeal to the commission this evening, on the basis of goodwill, to enter into discussions with those uk cities which aspired to be capital of culture in 2023, to see if there is any solution to the impasse in which we find ourselves today. i fear there may not be. but, as a member of this parliament for the past few weeks, my impression from other member states is that there is a desire to forge a lasting, positive relationship with the uk. celebrating our different cultures is a way to do that, and we must do that.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the aim of this directive is to ensure that the global, systematically important banks have the loss-absorbing and recapitalisation capacity necessary to help ensure that the critical functions can be continued without public finances or financial stability being put at risk, and it is a very good idea. simply speaking, this report is advocating bail-ins as opposed to bailouts. as a libertarian, i am in favour of a bailing-in system. ordinary taxpayers should not bear the burden of a financial crisis caused by banks which are too big to fail and too politically connected to fail. this is still the case in many european countries. in italy, for example, some of the smaller banks were saved only a few months ago by using taxpayers’ money. it seems that not many lessons from the banking crisis were learned. as a euro—sceptic, i do not believe in supranational policymaking in general, although brexit will enable britain to make our own laws to help keep the financial system in the united kingdom stable. nevertheless, i hope eu countries ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the directive we will vote upon later today is critical. it will ensure that taxpayers will not be hit by the possible insolvency and the resolution of a bank. when a bank is failing or insolvent, the new rules will create a creditor hierarchy, a new category of unsecured debt, as well as a harmonised approach towards bondholders. many people in the eu, and in particular in the uk, have been victims of mis-selling of financial products, which, in the end, appeared to be bail-inable. these new rules will make sure that clients and investors will be better protected by clear mention of the risks and the inclusions in the prospectus. i am concerned by some supervisors trying to overstretch their powers, as we have seen with the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) in the last couple of weeks, and sometimes with the european securities and markets authority (esma). therefore, it is key that we, as a legislator, make level 1 legislation as clear as possible, and i believe this legislation meets this criterion. therefore, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the negotiating team. i hope this directive is a first step towards an ambitious eu banking reform, ensuring that the banks become more resilient, less risky and supportive of the sustainable economy.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion on behalf of the committee on culture and education, i am glad that the final report on the implementation of the european disability strategy encompasses the main elements that i proposed, namely the mainstreaming of accessibility requirements in eu cultural policies, the need to pay special attention to the difficulties young people with disabilities and special needs encounter from early education through to their transition to employment, the issue of barriers to mobility, the digital gap, and the citizenship aspect. i also consider it useful to adopt a gender perspective in decision-making and to collect gender-disaggregated data related to the situation of people with disabilities and monitoring policies and actions in the field, as well as intersectional data on vulnerable people and those facing multiple discrimination, such as women with disability or disabled people and refugees. as a member of the disability intergroup and a champion of the rights of people with disability, i was happy to work on this extremely important issue in collaboration with civil society and with people with disabilities. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, earlier this year, the nation’s paper of record the daily express obtained figures that showed every week more than 800 britons are having their disability benefits taken away or cut in half, leaving them unable to work or support themselves. three thousand people per month are having their mobility allowances reduced or cut, which means, in effect, their cars, scooters or wheelchairs taken away from them. this is the shocking reality of austerity politics in the united kingdom – that those who have the least are having their dignity and their humanity stripped away from them. on the other hand, however, the british government is well equipped to find the money to give gbp 1 billion to northern ireland. it’s well equipped to find the money for endlessly increasing foreign aid. and, as we know, this week it has found gbp 40 billion to pay the ransom from this place. only when the government changes will things change in the uk. but, as things continue, it is going to get worse and worse and worse for those who have the least in the united kingdom.
mr president, i would like to congratulate ms stevens both for this report and for all the work that she does on behalf of people with disabilities. there are 13 million people in the united kingdom with disabilities, a disproportionately high number of whom live in the west midlands, only 3.4 million of whom work. in the united kingdom you are twice as likely to be unemployed if you are disabled and, if you are not working or not able to work, you are increasingly unlikely to be supported by the welfare system. the switch in the uk to universal credit is having a catastrophic effect on disabled people in just the way that this report talks about in point 61, in point 71, in recital a. but we in these institutions are also not good at dealing with disability and are in no place to lecture. i wrote to the european commission in september 2015 asking how many disabled people it employs and the answer is you don’t know, because you don’t collect the information. you do an anonymous survey of less than half your staff and it is not good enough!
madam president, in the 19 years that i have been here, i have spent an awful lot of time in this chamber voting on these budgetary items. the thing they all have in common is that it is always an increase. there is never a reduction. now, i could rage about this from the point of view of the hard-pressed taxpayer, but to be honest, that is not going to be britain’s problem for much longer. let me, instead, make the observation that these kinds of increases in budget represent a massive misallocation of resources. every euro spent by eu institutions is a euro not being spent by somebody closer to the ground, with a better sense of what is the optimum way of using capital – and thus does productivity and competitiveness fall across the union. what is our response? it is to allocate more money to boost competitiveness. was it mark twain who said that if all you have is a hammer, pretty much everything starts to look like a nail? is it not at least possible that our citizens might flourish if we taxed them less? as oliver cromwell once said, ‘i beseech you, in the bowels of christ, think it possible you may be mistaken’.
madam president, i welcome this report on the implementation of the european disability strategy. it rightly highlights one of the core principles of the un’s convention on the rights of persons with disabilities: the right to access transportation. campaigners in my constituency from bedfordshire rail access network are dismayed that stations in luton, leagrave, flitwick, biggleswade and harlington do not have step-free access for disabled people. ironically, while all train carriages will have to be made accessible by 1 january 2020, there are not any plans to make four of the five bedfordshire stations accessible. how exactly will a disabled biggleswade passenger benefit from the accessible trains if they can’t get onto the platform? the department for transport has stated that, for every gbp 1 spent on access improvements, gbp 2.90 is returned in economic benefits. it is the right thing to do and makes economic sense, too. so let’s do it.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, in the last parliament, with much fanfare, the eu claimed to be reforming the agricultural policy. it told us that it would make it fit for purpose. it told us that it would simplify it. it told us that it would cut red tape and ease the regulatory burden. well it hasn’t worked, has it? that’s why we’re having this debate on something called omnibus. so now, almost sneakily and by the back door, begins the process of trying to undo what we were doing in the last term. if the last reform was working, then omnibus would be totally unnecessary, certainly on this size and scale. moreover, we know that it is only the first step. commissioner hogan has already announced that 2018 will bring more change, further agricultural reform to try to undo some of the many mistakes of the last reform. furthermore, we already see scope for new mistakes to be made to replace the old ones. is allowing collusion and price-fixing really a solution, or will this turn out to be yet another case of further regulation reinforcing earlier failure with ever more complexity?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would also like to give my thanks to the rapporteur, with whom it was a pleasure to work, and also to the rest of the committee on fisheries. we are to be commended, i think – and i include myself in this – because this second reading before plenary today marks a real change in one or two areas. it is an established truism that simple law makes good law. the overdue changes to the phare regulations, a fundamental pillar of the cfp, will ensure the sustainable, transparent and harmonised regulation of community waters. but it will also extend the strict rules to those union vessels operating in third-party waters or upon the high seas. as such, the union will give effect to internationally agreed obligations, while recognising systemic abuses, such as reflagging. this legislation does what the fishermen of the region i represent want most. it is clear and it gives guidelines; it closes loopholes; and it is a precautionary acceptance of the fact that ecosystem-based protection must extend over borders if it is to be effective. article 5 of the eligibility criteria is central to the whole regulation, and it is to be welcomed that for the first time non-sensitive information will be made publicly accessible. i and some others would have liked to go further and apply enhanced transparency requirements, but i see this as a clear way forward, albeit not as far as i would have liked to have gone. the fight against illegal fishing is a tough one, but this regulation puts us firmly on the right road.
mr president, no subject illustrates the eu’s expansionist – even colonialist – nature better than the fisheries policy set out in this report. quite simply, the european union thinks it knows best. it thinks it is entitled to impose its thinking on others. as with brexit, so in the world’s oceans and seas. for the european union there is only the eu approach: a single set of rules to be imposed on everybody else. there can be no taking account of the thinking, the wishes or the needs of others. there can be no mutual recognition: there can only be alignment and harmonisation. they sound so nice, so innocuous, don’t they. what reasonable person could object to aligning things, to harmonising them? but these words are euphemisms, they conceal the authoritarian one-size-fits-all ‘we know best’ way that the european union seeks to impose its will upon others. this is a thinking of colonialism, and i am not a bit surprised that these colonial masters have no plans to hand back the uk fishing waters post brexit.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am pleased to be able to speak this evening in plenary on the interinstitutional agreement reached in trilogue in october under the estonian presidency. aviation accounts for approximately 2.1% of global co2 emissions. in the eu, direct co2 emissions from aviation account for approximately 3% of the total. this might not sound like very much, but when you think about the anticipated growth in air traffic emissions – by 2050 they are expected to be seven to ten times higher than in 1990, according to icao – these projections are really quite scary. we need to take very strong action. clearly such a growth is unsustainable and necessitates a policy response. we must work hard over the next few years to ensure we are on track to reach our climate ambitions under the paris agreement. in the european parliament, we have taken the view that we must reduce the carbon impact of the growth of air travel. we all know the history of ‘stop the clock’, so i do not intend to repeat that, but i do want to emphasise the european parliament’s commitment to continuing to work with icao to ensure the next few years deliver what they must: carbon reductions in line with our paris commitments. since the proposal was made by dg clima in 2017, earlier this year, we have moved at a fast pace in parliament in order to reach an agreement with council by the end of this year. from the publication of my draft report in may, i have fully supported the commission’s approach that we await the progress on the gmbm. i did, however, make some additional calls, and i am glad to say we reached a satisfactory agreement during the trilogue negotiations. the most important addition is the application of a time limit on the ‘stop the clock’ derogation. whilst welcoming the agreement reached at international level, having an end date on this reflects parliament’s legitimate concerns over the robust development of the gmbm and whether it would deliver on its commitment to ensure carbon-neutral growth from 2020. at present, based on the current negotiations within icao, progress on the offsetting provisions appears to be slow, with some parties – china and india notably – objecting to icao’s role in setting the rules for the gmbm. as such, i believe it would be remiss to make a decision on the future of the ets in support of a gmbm that is currently still vague and of an imprecise framework. with this regulation we are effectively outsourcing all our climate action on aviation to icao, an organisation that routinely makes decisions behind closed doors and does not allow full participation and transparency. a time-limited derogation will maintain political pressure on the council and commission to develop a long-term regulatory solution. we must learn from the issues encountered with previous iterations of the legislation and provide the sector with much needed investor certainty by completing work on the gmbm’s reporting provisions and the transparency and environmental integrity of its offset registry. with a trilogue agreement on ets phase 4 reached in early november, parliament won a delegated act on the corsia mrv rules. we believe we should have the opportunity to assess the provisions when the time comes. the political agreement on the need for icao to act in full transparency and reach out to all stakeholders to inform on progress and decisions made must move from rhetoric to reality as the implementation of these measures progresses. the trilogue agreement also safeguards the commission’s proposal to introduce an annually declining cap from 2021 and the possibility to reassess this, with a view to increasing the percentage of allowances auctioned. with exemption lapsing on 31 december, we give icao time to introduce the global carbon-offsetting scheme for the sector in 2021.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i cannot speak for the epp. i could try. aviation is the largest, fastest growing sector when it comes to co2 emissions. it is not the biggest contributor on its own, but as the fastest growing sector, it is incumbent on us to take action on it. it would make a mockery of the paris accord were we not to do so. the icao scheme, corsia, which wants to commit to carbon neutral growth by 2020, is of course a very welcome step forward. actually i have a grudging respect and admiration a genuine admiration in fact for icao, the work that they do and the fact that they have adapted to the needs to tackle climate change. you look surprised, bas, but it's true. the admiration is real. but of course we cannot rely solely on these processes, because we know that they are not transparent and we do not know what the final result will be. but the commission and the council both started this process by saying they wanted indefinite exemptions for international flights from the ets. this would of course give a blank cheque, and it is frankly an absurd idea, given that we do not know what the outcome of the icao process will be. so the deal of putting a limit on the exemption to 2023 is an excellent step, and this parliament should congratulate itself on having ensured that. i pay tribute, as always, to the work of the rapporteur, mrs girling, for helping to secure that, as well as the work of all the other groups that supported her. it is not only the right thing to do: it also puts pressure on icao to deliver a corsia package that would be ambitious and would prevent the european union from placing international flights under the ets. it is obviously not in the interests of icao to do so, and we would therefore want them to be as ambitious as possible. however, it is essential that this process is transparent. the aarhus convention obliges signatories to grant access to the public to information, participation and access to justice. this process is opaque and is in contravention of these principles. one final point: there is an amendment saying that there should be protection for uk companies for the ets scheme against uk companies dumping. my appeal to the uk government is to just commit now to being in the ets. we know what the outcome of phase one means. it means that the uk will be in the single market and the customs union, barring miracles. commit now and you remove... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, less than 1.5% of global carbon dioxide emissions are attributable to international aviation, and i am sceptical that emissions from this sector will increase by 300-700 per cent by 2050 whether action is taken or not. imposing even more taxes on flights will not deter people from flying, so is unlikely to mitigate any impact on climate change. however, the rapporteur believes that the commission’s implementation report on the icao’s market mechanism should be in line with the eu’s commitments under the paris agreement and should ensure that all environmental standards of the eu ets are maintained. to date, the ets, in conjunction with other legislation designed to reduce emissions and increase energy costs, has had a devastating effect on heavy industries within the eu, leaving them unable to compete with countries such as china, india and the usa. consequently, energy-intensive businesses, such as steel, aluminium and chemicals have closed, exporting jobs and investment out of the eu.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you. thank you, madam commissioner, that is no problem at all with me, and i’ll be very brief anyway. i’d just like to give my final thanks to the shadows. it is rather ironic that we are here talking about an aviation item, when so many people have been unable to make what i know they saw as a very important debate, and because of aviation difficulties. i would just like to make a couple of points: i think we all agree that aviation has to pay its way in the same way as road and rail transport do, and that the gmbm, whilst not perfect, does encompass our principles of protecting the single market and preventing unfair competition. it is the only game in town when it comes to a global measure. so we do need to stand by it, but we also need to be really, really clear that it is going to take some really careful watching. i appeal to all of the colleagues who will be here when i will sadly not be, over the next several years, to make sure that they hold both the commission and icao’s feet to the fire on this issue and that when we get reports, as we’ve seen this week, about biofuels and how icao have reneged on commitments made only a short time ago, that must signal alarm bells that we need to use the mechanisms laid down in this report to hold them to account. and finally, for the record, for my colleague mr dance, i would like to agree with him that the uk government should indeed signal, as soon as possible, that they intend to continue commitments under both this and the main ets scheme. there seems absolutely no reason why they should not, and indeed i would encourage them to do so – and do – at every opportunity. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i apologise that our shadow in the committee on petitions has not yet been able to arrive here this evening. i wanted to start by saying that we’ve heard a lot of expressions in the committee on petitions and elsewhere by people affected by the brexit experience about how much they value their european citizenship and how its potential loss has really affected their sense of identity as european citizens. i think that is something which is very powerful. we need to look at how we can build on that for those who will be able to enjoy that in future. what we’re certainly learning from this experience – and indeed we see this in the report – is the importance of clear information to citizens, the right to good administration, so that the rights that they have are developed. but we do need, and we thoroughly agree with the report here, on the need to extend the work on anti—discrimination. european citizenship is an unfinished task at the moment, so we need to strengthen the anti—discrimination legislation, strengthen people’s access to the law to defend their rights and indeed to strengthen the tools that citizens have. i think we should also look at the fact how shameful it is that even within the european union now we have people who’ve lived here for years, whose family have lived here for years and yet are still stateless. we need to pay attention to the gaps that we see opening between member states when people move – the loss of voting rights, the loss of nationality and potentials, and how that will affect children – the way in which different states have a different attitudes towards dual nationality and indeed different attitudes to the treatment of the right to family life, because we’re talking here about citizens, not just workers. we still have a lot of work to do to complete european citizenship.
mr president, the notion of eu citizenship is based on a flawed rule that orders every eu country immediately to accord all the benefits and rights it gives to its own citizens to anyone from 27 other countries. this ignores and overrides the widely—held view that national governments have higher obligations to their own citizens. in the uk, our welfare state is funded by national insurance and includes our national health service. these names symbolise the kinship british people feel towards each other and grew out of our shared national effort of 1939 to 1945. many british people do not support full access instantly for foreign nationals to services like the nhs, strongly believing a new arrival should pay into the pot for a while first. this report says it seeks to restore citizens’ confidence in the eu. you won’t do that by trampling over the primacy of nations, and brexit will ensure the uk will not be trampled over in any case.
mr president, this report demonstrates the importance of eu citizenship. tragically, brexit potentially represents the first instance of people losing these valuable rights. three million citizens from elsewhere in the eu live in the uk and 1.5 million uk citizens live in the rest of the eu. these people have built their lives in good faith that their rights would not be infringed or jeopardised, and we in this house have a moral responsibility. neither eu nationals in the uk nor uk nationals abroad for more than 15 years were able to vote on the decision which affected their lives the most acutely. as the brexit negotiations reach a critical juncture, a strong signal must be sent to those on both sides of the negotiating table that we take citizens’ rights seriously. we will not accept a reduction in rights and we refuse to allow people’s lives to be used as bargaining chips for any longer. (applause)
mr president, i deeply regret that this report took place not at a time of togetherness and idealism but at a time when the threat of the uk leaving the european union is dominating our discussions about what it means to be a citizen of europe today. conducting this report through feedback from petitions has highlighted the strength of feeling in the uk about eu citizenship, and i am not at all surprised about the strength of feeling, as day on day i receive distressing messages from eu citizens in the uk and uk citizens living in the eu, as well as their friends, colleagues and loved ones, who are demanding that negotiators stop playing with their future. i would like to remind you that every single person in the united kingdom is currently still a citizen of the european union, and we must question what is being done to protect the 48.1% of british european citizens who voted to remain so. what is being done to protect young people whose citizenship will be stolen from them? what is being done to protect us all about the serious threat that these rights will be removed? and despite the recent movement in negotiations, many details and questions are still unresolved. the lengthy wait for people’s futures to be determined is causing psychological and emotional distress, and the eu has a duty of care towards these citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the agreement between the eu and the republic of kazakhstan comes at a time when we see a sharp deterioration in the human rights situation in kazakhstan. freedom of speech and freedom of assembly and association are being attacked by the authorities, who have organised a crackdown against free voices in kazakh society. kazakhstan is publicly neglecting its international human rights obligations. politically motivated criminal prosecutions are becoming more frequent and demonstrate that the authorities are unwilling to accept dissident voices. i am very concerned by the detention of political prisoners and the ongoing use of torture. human rights organisations have registered more than 35 cases of persons subjected to politically motivated prosecution for civil and trade union activities, for public criticism of the authorities, for participating in peaceful rallies, for publishing and sharing posts on social media, and for conducting journalistic investigations. this is so in the case of mr max bokayev, a kazakh civic activist, mr mukhtar dzhakishev, mr iskander yerimbetov, and mr muratkhan tokmadi – political prisoners who fell victim to the lack of proper medical care. they need urgent hospitalisation, but are subject to ill-treatment and severe torture instead. so i hereby call on the kazakh authorities to release all political hostages and cease further human rights abuses. as i told the kazakh government in a letter i sent out two months ago, i believe that the fulfilment of kazakhstan’s international human rights obligations should be a non—negotiable condition for the ratification of the agreement, and as this condition is not yet met, i will be voting against the agreement.
mr president, three months ago, i raised the plight of the rohingya. today, i speak out again about the atrocities being committed by the burmese military, which clearly amount to ethnic cleansing and genocide. myanmar and bangladesh have recently reached an agreement for the return of the rohingya to their homes, yet any returns must be voluntary and done under un peacekeeping supervision. but what would they return to? an apartheid system, an open-air prison and a system of repression with every aspect of their daily lives severely restricted. the world must not stand by in the face of this oppression, and this week’s resolution must demand concerted global action. we must apply maximum pressure on the burmese military with targeted sanctions against all those involved. the time for rhetoric has finished. we must show the rohingya community that we stand shoulder to shoulder with their struggle for human rights. the myanmar government must be held to account for its actions. we are the hope for our desperate rohingya brothers and sisters. let us get justice, dignity and equality for them.
mr president, the christmas rush is coming and in some ways it felt a bit like santa’s grotto, with people busily packing up parcels, when i visited the norwich food bank on friday. but the cheerful staff, volunteers and generous-hearted donors cannot mask that it is deeply shocking that 114 879 boxes of three-day emergency food supplies were given out in my constituency last year. that is a 13.8% increase in food bank use in the east of england. it should not have to be like this. with christmas around the corner, the school holidays and the cold snap sending energy bills up, norwich’s food bank coordinator told me that she expects a spike in demand, with over 1 000 parcels of food needed this december from the city’s food bank. the europe 2020 strategy shows that the eu takes fighting food poverty seriously. our government must too, to make sure that nobody goes hungry this christmas.
mr president, sunday, 10 december marks international human rights day, and whilst rights are being exercised, they are being violated too. in the north of ireland, rights enshrined in the good friday agreement and subsequent agreements remain outstanding; rights for irish language speakers, for our lgb&t brothers and sisters, for families of victims of the conflict awaiting inquests, are all under attack. ireland remains the only member state yet to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and the basic right to a home is wilfully ignored as 3 000 children are homeless across ireland tonight. brexit threatens to rip the north of ireland out of the eu, away from the european court of justice and its protections. britain has torn up the charter of fundamental rights and wants to dilute access to the convention. the letter today to an taoiseach, signed by 200 admired citizens, calls for an equality and human rights based society in the here and now and post-brexit. an taoiseach, their call should not be ignored or dismissed.
mr president, amidst chaotic negotiations, theresa may has chased a hard brexit at any cost, threatening a complete breakaway from the institutions and programmes that have played a significant role in supporting our growing cultural economy for the past 50 years. liverpool and glasgow have been past british recipients of the coveted european capital of culture title with liverpool, in my region, generating a staggering return of gbp 750 million to the local economy from gbp 170 million of spending. but, more importantly, the capital of culture years fostered a real sense of civic pride with a meaningful legacy for the people living in the city and surrounding areas. it is a great shame that the disastrous tory—led brexit has now ruined the chances of uk cities accessing the opportunity to regenerate through culture and specifically the capital of culture programme, especially as some had spent up to gbp 500 000 to complete their bids. the eu’s decision not to include the uk in the programme is a huge blow for our pro-european cities and the wider arts community. however, the greatest loss for our creative and cultural industries will be the loss of freedom of movement.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it was the greens/efa group that began the process of establishing the inquiry committee into the panama papers whose report we are debating today. we have a report to be proud of, with strong recommendations to clamp down on tax avoidance, tax evasion and money laundering. our recommendations include requiring an economic justification before offshore structures can be established and ensuring that eu funds can never find their way to tax havens. we hope that our friends in other groups will support this strong action against tax cheating to respond to the public outcry against continuing scandals. any weakening of this report’s proposals represents contempt for their views. after months of evidence-gathering and inquiry and the further revelations of the recent paradise papers, there can be no excuse for inaction. the commission must take immediate steps to turn these recommendations into legislative proposals. we also look to the council to adopt the legislative proposals made in the aftermath of the panama papers, especially greater transparency for the activities of large companies and the revision of the anti-money laundering rules. a failure by member states to cooperate to fight tax evasion and tax avoidance means that too many proposals are blocked in council, which demonstrates its contempt for our work by not even sending anybody to be present at this debate. to break this blockage, we call on commissioner moscovici to present a legislative tax proposal under codecision during 2018.
mr president, merry christmas to friends and foe alike. over the last few years, this parliament has come up with a plethora of tax reports. time after time, the conclusions are the same. we need more taxes, we need higher taxes, and we need a harmonisation of tax policies. in the meantime, the european commission is advocating a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) and last week the european code of conduct group proudly announced a blacklist of tax havens. it seems the eu federalists want to punish the uk for taking a democratic decision to leave. this is why some eu politicians are telling journalists that the uk will be blacklisted as a tax haven after brexit. by threatening us, you are proving once again that the only aim of these eu tax proposals is banning freedom and free competition. according to this panama report, tax avoidance is the improper utilisation of tax regimes. what you do not seem to understand is that people have the right to keep the fruits of their labour. tax ... (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – madam joly, everyone wants to continue this committee. i wondered if you would agree with me that perhaps a good name for it should be the ‘robespierre committee’, because it just seems to be an excuse for a bunch of lefties to give big business and little businesses who are trying to protect themselves a good kicking. so perhaps, madam, you would agree with me, the ‘robespierre committee’ should be the name given to this committee in the future?
blue-card question. – do you think with all these rules and regulations that are being brought in by the european union on the back of this report that business is going to flood into the uk immediately after brexit because people want to put their money where they feel it is safe and is not going to be plundered by a lot of left-wing individuals who just want to destroy businesses and create a communist super state?
madam president, the european fund for strategic investments, also known as the ‘juncker plan’, wants to overcome the investment gap in the eu by mobilising private money. for many reasons, i am not in favour of this report, nor do i wish to extend the duration of the efsi fund. one should ask oneself: why do we need such an investment fund at a time when interest rates are already extremely low and the market is flooded with cheap money? the answer lies in the nature of the plan. the european fund for strategic investments is explicitly funding risky projects, projects that are not able to obtain funding through the financial markets at a time when money is easy. very dodgy indeed. the european investment bank and european commission admitted many times, and i quote: ‘the efsi projects’ portfolio risk profile will be higher than the average risk profile of the other eib projects and assets. the efsi provides a first loss guarantee so that the eib has been able to invest in more risky projects.’ let us not forget that at least eur 16 billion – the equivalent of more than gbp 14 billion – in the efsi project are guaranteed through the eu budget, plus eur 5 billion – an equivalent of gbp 4.4 billion – is coming from the european investment bank, which is owned by the eu member states, including britain, and that will be so after we leave, i should think. besides funding projects in the field of energy, efsi is often used to fund semi-governmental infrastructure projects which are harmful to private business. it sets up in competition with private business. in theory, this megalomaniac efsi project sounds like a good example of free market capitalism and wealth creation. in practice, however, it is old school keynesianism and state intervention. this efsi bubble economy is set to burst and that will be bad for the eu and bad for britain.
mr president, i voted against this. i voted against it because, in reality, the emissions trading system (ets) has been an absolute, complete failure. now, it is a very good report. i am not criticising the author; i am criticising the aspect that the ets system is fundamentally flawed. it has got little to do with lowering emissions. it is designed to raise revenue as a stealth tax, and it is also designed as a protectionist measure. the net effect of the proposed changes to the ets in aviation policy will mean more taxes on tourists, more taxes on business travellers, and it will push up the price of imports. that helps european union-based manufacturers and farmers, but ultimately does not help the aviation sector.
mr president, i have just voted for, and we have just adopted, a very important report on strengthening citizenship. there is a group of people, though, who would love their citizenship rights to be strengthened. right now, that said, they would give everything for those rights just to be respected, maintained and guaranteed. in adopting this report today, mr president, i believe we have made very clear again in this parliament that citizens’ rights, the rights of eu citizens in the uk, are not there to be negotiated. they are not negotiating currency; they are not there to be offered to people or for concessions to be made to people. they are much more important than that. this parliament will have to continue to be vigilant against that and against threats to that in these coming months, and i am sure it will be. we have already seen the so-called agreement unravel very quickly from the end of last week. citizenship rights, the rights of citizens across europe are not there to be negotiated away by politicians.
mr president, well for me when mr timmermans addressed the committee on constitutional affairs meeting recently and stated that petitions should not be seen as a tool of direct democracy, this underlined the farce of the european union guarantee of citizens’ rights and democratic voice. when there are european union calls from this chamber to ban a national referendum, as the green party leader did only a short while ago, and when the european union has made the application of rights such a critical part of the brexit talks, actually it is all about control and has got nothing to do with delivering rights because they will not offer a reciprocal deal for united kingdom residents living in europe. i could not support this report. if those issues had been included, addressed and reviewed there might have been a chance.
mr president, most of our trade rules date back to the analogue time. we urgently need to make them fit for the digital age. decent working conditions, privacy and fair competition are all being challenged whilst the rules of the game are outdated. i welcome this report, which complements the work of this parliament, which we already did on issues including, in particular, the trade in services (tisa) negotiations. i am particularly pleased with the fact that a consensus is emerging on excluding data transfer rules from investment protection provisions. this report strongly reaffirms the conditions that we have laid down in relation to the tisa negotiations and any future agreement. it is now up to the commission to rise to the challenge of digitalisation. we need strong rules to synch technological with social progress, ensuring really fair trade for all.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the situation in afghanistan does show some signs of improvement, but we must not shy away from the very clear gaps in security that still persist. gdp does still continue to grow. life expectancy has been extended, and more and more young girls are finding their way into education for the very first time. the taliban, nevertheless, poses a sustained and credible security threat, with isis and the haqqani network among the terrorist groups compounding the problem. attacks against the supreme court in february, as well as a blast in the diplomatic quarter of kabul in may, illustrate this problem only too clearly. across the country, 2017 has seen a record high in terms of terrorist—caused civilian deaths, the highest number for 16 years. the link between security at home and security in afghanistan cannot be ignored, and it is important that this link is continually underlined, particularly in the face of a sceptical public opinion throughout the european union. it is vital, therefore, that the eu and member states remain engaged and at the forefront of international efforts to support the afghan government in its efforts to stabilise the country in terms of both the economy and security.
mr president, our policy in relation to afghanistan has proved an abject failure. whilst the last military campaign was relatively successful, the uk has been heavily involved in this country since 2001 and our state-building efforts must now take second place to the ability of the taliban to use the narcotics trade to build up a huge war chest. since the retreat from kabul in 1842, my country has faced various painful interventions here, and it could be reasonably argued that very little has been achieved. humanitarian intervention has seen much blood and financial expenditure on my country’s part, with little improvement to the lives of many afghan citizens. the uk must continue to contribute to international security, attempt to combat the supply of narcotics and of course secure our national interests. judging by last year’s record opium poppy yield and heroin production figures in afghanistan, the means by which we do this are not currently working. it is time for a radical rethink.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, if anyone questions whether what is happening in myanmar is ethnic cleansing, i say look for the hallmarks. men and boys separated and murdered, women and girls raped and disfigured as a means of subjugation and control, homes and crops burnt, whole villages destroyed overnight and left smouldering and stinking of death. at the last plenary i called for a point of order to have another debate and another resolution, but this time should be the last. last week, the un high commissioner for human rights said that an act of genocide cannot be ruled out. last week, alex crawford, this extraordinary sky news correspondent who went under cover in myanmar, testified at my conference that of all humanitarian crises this is probably the worst she has ever witnessed. and still the world wrings its hands over how to respond. we cannot let this suffering be met with only shrugged shoulders and bleeding hearts. the eu can be powerful in galvanising a global response, but to do so it must lead, not look for middle ground. that voice must roar not whisper. there can be no repatriation of the one million refugees unless they are recognised first as citizens of myanmar and unless the un is present as well as the media and humanitarian ngos. that is why i hope that our motion can persuade the commission and council to use their good offices in calling for an international summit on the rohingya. one day, our grandchildren may ask how we used that power, when a whole population has been killed and persecuted. please let us choose to have an answer that is decent and honourable.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, no one can look at the plight of the rohingya and feel anything but a great deal of sympathy for their situation. one would have hoped that the slow transition to democracy in burma would have improved their position within burmese society. alas, such hopes have been proven wasted. abstract discussion over the history of the rohingya has no place in modern discourse and cannot be used to justify the persecution of these poor people. amongst this misery, it should not be forgotten that militant groups have fought the burmese state since shortly after the second world war. and there are allegations that some are connected to islamic extremists. the uk should do all it can to facilitate dialogue and hopefully restore their place in burmese society. if that democratisation proves to be a success, perhaps, and only then, it would be time to rethink burmese membership of the commonwealth, certainly not before.
mr president, i would like to thank the high representative for everything she has told us, for going there, for listening to the women and the people she met, and for coming here and bearing witness and giving them a voice in our parliament. that is extremely important. ms mogherini, we can hear that that you have been doing what you can. i am a little bit sceptical about the returns process, unless there are independent monitors there to make sure that it really is voluntary and that human rights are respected. there have been some problems for human rights organisations and ngos both in registering in bangladesh and in getting access. if you could, please tell us more about whether those issues have been resolved. i do not have a lot of time, but to pick up on the impunity issue, it is 70 years since the universal declaration of human rights was signed. i do not know about you but i am getting sickened by hearing, year after year, the reports about the awful violence against women and girls. last year we gave a sakharov prize to two young women who were abused and raped in the syria/iraqi conflict by isis. now we hear these appalling stories of what is happening to women. we have an initiative with united nations women. can we not do something at the united nations to get some global action on this issue, and not come here next year to hear more awful stories about abuse of women?
mr president, i am speaking in my capacity as chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with countries of south asia, including bangladesh. our delegation visited some years ago now the camps at cox’s bazaar of the rohingya who were currently there. the eu has been a consistent funder for those camps over the years and indeed has worked with the government of bangladesh to try to find solutions for the situation of the rohingya people. over the years, i think it has been pretty clear that myanmar has been playing games over this. they say that they will take back people with appropriate id documents but they do not issue appropriate id documents, so how is this supposed to happen? if we get a return this time it has to be with people who can be safe when they get back. so what can we do to change the mind of the government in myanmar? i fully support those who have been urging sanctions. the international community had sanctions against myanmar in the past. i think this latest effort at ethnic cleansing, of wiping out a people and their history, deserves at least sanctions now.
mr president, the words of this strong resolution need to be translated into urgent action. the climate of impunity must end as it only serves to perpetuate the cycle of abuse. the eu must immediately impose targeted economic sanctions and travel restrictions on military personnel involved in these atrocities and refer them to the international criminal court. we need major regional actors to put pressure on myanmar to stop these heinous crimes, allow humanitarian access and a un fact-finding mission in rahkine state, as well as ending the institutionalised system of segregation. assisting bangladesh with this humanitarian challenge is crucial to provide a safe space for the rohingya for as long as they need it, as well as psychological support and child protection for women and girls affected by these evil crimes. indeed, there are no shortages of options for pressurising the myanmar military to stop this campaign of ethnic cleansing against the rohingya. if we cannot action this now in an effective and timely manner, then this resolution is not worth the paper it is written on, madam high representative.
mr president, for many years now, member after member of the european parliament has stood in this chamber and highlighted the plight of the rohingya. it seems that those calls have fallen on deaf ears. today we arrive in a situation where even the pope cannot go there and call these people by their true identity. it is clear that, whilst there is much that is being done by the european union today, unless and until we insist on a regularisation and status for these people, they are going to continually find themselves in this position time after time. madam high representative, when you speak about aung san suu kyi – and i hear from many that there is a willingness from her to cooperate with us – the fact of the matter is this: if somebody who holds a prize given by this house, the home of human rights – the sakharov prize – finds herself unable to speak for her own people, then this house must review its relationship with her. silence is no longer an option. it is not good enough. it must stop. she must speak out now.
mr president, almost two-thirds of a million rohingya have fled their homes. nearly half a million of them are in need of health and food assistance, and many of them are children under five. the un human rights chief said last week that the atrocities committed by state forces may amount to genocide. knowing this, i am baffled that the foreign affairs council yesterday once again failed to adopt decisive measures to bring pressure to bear on the authorities and military in myanmar – failed even to discuss the situation of the rohingya, despite calls from me and many colleagues from this house and from civil society. my questions to you, high representative, are: will myanmar be on the agenda of the foreign affairs council on 22 january? will the council adopt targeted sanctions against those murdering and raping men, women and children? what steps will you take to achieve a unified position vital to ratchet up pressure vis-à-vis china and russia, who are blocking action in the security council? the repatriation deal between myanmar and bangladesh is a replication of the 1992 agreement which already proved to be untenable. the eu needs to ensure the rohingya are not forcibly returned, and prioritise implementation of the annan commission recommendation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, on all sides of the eu’s external borders, we are now faced with political and security instability. events in libya have seen large tracks of its territory fall into the hands of armed militias. the illegal annexation of crimea by russia in 2014 has sparked fresh tensions with the european union, whilst war still goes on, sadly, in the east of ukraine. president erdoğan of turkey, meanwhile, presses ahead with his reorientation of turkey in a middle eastern direction, seeking a dominant role in regional politics and hollowing out democratic institutions at home. furthermore, despite continued progress and improvements in the western balkans, euro-atlanticist integration of that region still remains challenging. this is set against a wider backdrop of increased global threats such as terrorism, climate change, migratory fluxes, cyber attacks and a less engaged and isolationist america following the election of president trump. it is no surprise, therefore, that we see a renewed focus in demand by member states to work together more closely at eu level in the realms of foreign security and defence policies. the 2016 global strategy set out a bold vision for the eu in this regard, and a concrete example seen this year in the form of permanent structured cooperation on security and defence (pesco), with 25 out of 27 eu member states now having joined, and the launch of a european defence fund, prove that this is now a reality. despite brexit, it is clear that the united kingdom, my country, understands the need and has a desire to remain fully engaged with the eu in these areas, and will remain a member of nato and seek a strong nato common security and defence policy (csdp) cooperation. i sincerely hope that phase two of the negotiations between the eu 27 and the uk will deliver such a deep and special partnership.
blue-card question. – mr president, i noticed in mr danjean’s speech that he spoke about the lisbon treaty and the union. would it not be fair to say that this combined defence is really a united defence, leading towards the united states of europe, very much as former president schulz outlined in his recent speech and all this is, primarily, is a political project, to bring the peoples of europe together in the united states of europe?
mr. president, i am always amused by the use of opinion polls. i wonder if the people across europe were asked if, for their defence they would prefer to rely on the eu institutions or on the nato alliance that engages the united states alongside the european nations. i wonder what they would answer. i have to say that this is not a question you would like, absolutely. i have to say i that i don’t agree with most of mr gahler’s report, but there are three phrases that i do actually agree with. the western democracies do indeed face unprecedented threats and challenges; the united states’ commitment to european security is welcome, and i would say essential; and that brexit means the european union could lose britain’s military capability and expertise and there is a need for a new uk-eu defence cooperation relationship. the logic of all this is to underline the need for western solidarity and for us all to put our energies into revitalising the alliance that binds the united states and britain to the security of europe. it is called nato, but instead the european union is creating an entirely separate european defence union separate from nato but still involving most of the nato allies. it’s all about political integration and the long-standing desire of a certain member state for so-called strategic autonomy. actually we don’t need pesco, we don’t need edu; what we need is for all the europeans to spend more on defence to address crises alongside all their key allies and to have the political will to participate in military action when required.
mr president, in last june’s uk referendum the british people wisely voted for our independence from the european union, yet the british government, through a lack of intent and preparation, seems to be doing a good job in messing it up. indeed, last week’s announcement was nothing short of scandalous. yet something that is yet to achieve detailed public scrutiny in the uk is the apparent willingness to sell out british defence and foreign policy by sticking as closely as possible to eu policy. indeed, the same could be said about the traditionally neutral eu members, austria, sweden and the republic of ireland. i have to wonder whether the political classes there are being deliberately quiet on this critical issue. the eu has nothing to contribute that cannot be better achieved via existing institutions such as nato, or of course through bilateral relations. it is time for the european union to roll back its ambitions in this area. at the very least, the uk should have no further part in propagating them.
mr president, a fully—fledged eu army is in the making. brussels is aiming to have its own military apparatus backed by a joint defence budget of billions. it fits in perfectly with the eu’s ambition of constructing a european superstate, replacing the nation states of europe, as openly admitted by verhofstadt. it has always been in the treaties, yet you all lie to your constituents. you said it was a right-wing eurosceptic fantasy, as did the sacked uk remainer, nick clegg. at last we on this side of the house have been proven right. this army provides the ultimate grandeur of fully-fledged statehood, as unveiled by martin schulz this weekend. all the taxpayers’ money the eu will be spending on defence will not be going into useful capabilities. it will definitely not be used to beef up the nato alliance. instead, the eu will be expanding its bureaucracy with designer uniforms, shiny new buildings and headquarters. it has already got an anthem and a flag. so let’s be clear. instead of president trump undermining the credibility of nato, it is clear that the eu is undermining nato. i was in washington last week. senior politicians up on capitol hill said to me: ‘the army will be used to shore up your external eu borders, right? or clamp down on radical islamic extremism, those men raping and assaulting women and jews, those terrorists that are blowing you up. is that what your money is going to be used for?’ i said no, it won’t be to protect the citizens. it will be spent on vanity sabre—rattling by verhofstadt, juncker and that gender-quota recycled communist, the high priestess ms mogherini. be afraid! yeah, i’ve got your attention now. be afraid when they get their hands on the weapons!
blue-card question. – mrs vautmans, thank you for taking my question. to quote what you have just said: ‘sleeping beauty has finally woken up’. does that not underline the military ambitions, the federal ambitions of this place? what would you say to the citizens? my country, thankfully, is leaving the european union, but what would you say to the citizens of sweden, of austria, of the republic of ireland – neutral countries, traditionally neutral countries – what would you say to them about the direction of the european union?
mr president, my family knows a little about common european defence: my grandmother saw zeppelins over tipton in the west midlands; my great-grandfather left lancashire to be a tunneller in the first world war; my grandfather herbert etheridge served in a tank and helped to liberate europe from oppression in the second world war. we know that the uk has never, ever shirked its responsibility to europe. whilst we may be leaving the eu, we will never shirk our responsibility to keep europe free. we have an excellent defence alliance: it’s called nato. we work with the last remaining superpower in the world, the united states, to protect freedom in europe and other places. despite the fact that our treacherous united kingdom government is deliberately and systematically running down our defences, we still do not require a union such as this. this is purely a political union to create a united states of europe that the people of europe were never consulted about. what i would say to you is very simple: no british government should ever commit to this. no british money should ever be spent on this. and not one single drop of british blood should ever be spilled in a cause that is not directly in the remit of ‘for queen and country.’
madam president, these reports are very timely reflections on the progress that is being made at a european level on foreign policy, security and defence. both the mcallister and gahler reports highlight the effectiveness of working together at an eu level towards peace and security in our increasingly troubled world. contrary to earlier statements by europhobic politicians, it is in the interests of all of us that the eu strengthens its position on the world stage. i also welcome the fact that both reports are looking to achieve a defence cooperation relationship between the eu and the uk in future. i sincerely hope that this will be achieved in both the industrial sphere, but also in the political decision-making sphere in these areas.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the iran nuclear deal was concluded in 2015 as the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) by the p5+1 and the european union, and i wish to extend thanks for the excellent work of your predecessor, ms ashton, and yourself, ms mogherini. many so-called hardliners labelled it as a capitulation. these people not only failed to appreciate that the deal was concerned with one particular aspect, i.e. iran’s nuclear weapons programme, but also they viewed the sanctions as an end in themselves rather than as a route to the negotiating table. iran’s human rights record is atrocious. i am the first to admit to that, and we should not fail to speak out against, and i have done on many occasions. its support for terrorist groups in the middle east is well documented and must be thoroughly condemned. its continued engagement in a regional, sectarian battle for supremacy with saudi arabia creates instability and should be strongly discouraged. these issues are, however, irrelevant when it comes to discussing this deal. that the jcpoa be enforced and measured solely against its specific aims is integral to its negotiation. halting and hopefully ultimately preventing iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon is what we must remain focused on, not stoking the narrative of iran as a pariah state deserving of sanctions. the international atomic energy agency (iaea) has confirmed that iran has kept within all of the technical parameters of the deal, even if at times, these parameters have been pushed to their limits. i am pleased, therefore, that the eu member states and the high representative have spoken strongly in favour of the deal, following president trump’s continued threats to withdraw from it, which i regard as unacceptable. at a time when tensions with north korea are at a breaking point, the ability to highlight a successful nuclear non-proliferation deal is of more value than ever.
mr president, the iran nuclear deal was lauded by some as giving peace in our time throughout the middle east. however, we must now ask: have we traded nightmarish prophecy for possible calamity? or, indeed, has anything really changed at all? the deal deliberately only covered nuclear material and other components of nuclear capability, thus the immediate aftermath saw breaches of the un resolution on intercontinental ballistic missile testing and a bolstered iranian foreign policy, not least including the proxy war in yemen and further turmoil in the middle east. and all this without even considering what happens after the sunset clause is closed in the not too distant future. the trump administration was correct to force a debate on this deal. accordingly, it is time that this place looks seriously at this issue beyond its mirage as the gold standard of eu diplomacy by addressing the real effects that it is having in the middle east.
mr president, a complaint: this is the fifth debate in which blue cards have been denied to people like myself in the last three parliaments that i have been here. on an issue such as this, when there are so few people here who are able to speak, when there is going to be very few people supporting the idea of jerusalem being the capital of israel, i am absolutely appalled that once again a member of this house is denied the access to have a speech on this. the fifth occasion i have had to face no blue cards. thank you very much.
blue-card question. – you have just said that mr trump went beyond his competencies as the president of the united states in recognising jerusalem as the capital of israel. were you one of those who voted in this chamber to recognise palestine as a country, which went beyond the competencies of this parliament when it did not have the powers under any treaty to recognise that country, or is it simply that you are pro—abbas and palestine and anti-israel? one rule for one and one rule for another.
madam president, the dangerous decision taken by the trump administration illustrates that no matter what the cost, they will do whatever it takes to deflect attention from trouble at home. it is shameful and wrong that they are playing fast and loose with a region already unstable. palestinians have suffered at the hands of israel for decades, and now the trump administration is rubbing salt into their wounds. the us can no longer claim to act as a neutral player in the region, but the un and the eu must show leadership, and the eu must apply sanctions and end business as usual. this means an arms embargo on israel and an immediate suspension of the eu-israel association agreement until israel upholds human rights and international law. the irish government must also take on a role of leadership. criticising the decision will make little impact on the long-suffering people of palestine. the irish government needs to recognise the state of palestine immediately, especially as a response to the unacceptable action of the trump administration.
madam president, president trump has recognised jerusalem as the capital of israel. this announcement, and the decision to move the us embassy, is a counterproductive measure that will damage the chances of peace. he has completely disregarded east jerusalem and any reference to palestinian aspirations for a capital of their own in the city. he is putting the us in violation of un resolutions 476 and 478 by recognising part, or all, of east jerusalem as the capital of israel. this poorly judged announcement has triggered words of concern and condemnation from around the globe. the entire middle east has braced itself for the prospect of social unrest. how on earth can this decision be a constructive step towards peace? the sheer incompetence coming from the president of the us is unprecedented in my lifetime. on our side, i thank the high representative for her statement. we are here to reaffirm that the two-state solution is the only scenario we will ever accept for israel and palestine. let us seize the moment to re-launch negotiations between israel and palestine for a lasting solution that works for all of the people. finally, to our jewish brothers and sisters, happy hanukkah.
madam president, last year, i condemned the global clampdown on civil society and human rights defenders, but sadly the situation is only getting worse. in the gulf, where many eu member states – including the united kingdom – have strategic and economic interests, the situation of human rights defenders remains catastrophic. in bahrain, at least 169 peaceful critics have been targeted in the space of a year. last week, bahrain activist nedal al-salman was banned from travelling to the eu ngo forum on human rights, and as we speak, nabeel rajab is serving a two-year sentence solely for speaking to the media. he is facing 15 more years for tweets about the saudi-led coalition air strikes in yemen and the use of torture in bahraini prisons. nevertheless, neither the high representative nor any eu member states publicly condemned the confirmation of his sentence on 22 november. nabeel rajab is a prisoner of conscience; he deserves our full support and resolute action. in turkey, the situation is truly appalling. the european union’s ambiguous relationship with mr erdogan is unacceptable, and our policy must change. many human rights defenders, lawyers, academics, civil society representatives, trade unionist activists, judges, journalists, civil servants and artists face trumped—up charges of terrorism. i would especially like to highlight some cases that are close to my heart, for example zehra doğan and the istanbul 10. the eu must uphold its human rights commitments in assisting civil society actors worldwide as stated in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy 2015—2019 and the eu global strategy. ms mogherini, i urge you to call for the immediate release of mr rajab in bahrain and all jailed human rights defenders in turkey, and to concretely engage with defenders well before they are put on trial.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am very pleased to introduce this report –briefly, you’ll be glad to hear at this time of night – to the house. i believe it is an example of the eu adding real value, and of the parliament working well. the eu external competences are still new, and at best we can use the footprint and historical connections of our member states to use that insight to inform a values-based foreign policy in the wider world. we can use that insight to inform ourselves, but not be a prisoner of the baggage of history. on that point, on a slightly personal note, it’s a great tragedy for me, that as the eu begins to speak with one voice in the wider world, my own member state, the united kingdom, has decided to retreat into isolationism with brexit, if not my country, scotland. i assure you, there are plenty of constructive partners in scotland, and we’ll be in touch. on this report, it is right that we take stock of the situation in hong kong. we are 20 years after the handover from the british to the chinese, and 20 years into a 50-year commitment to a ‘one country, two systems’ approach. hong kong is the 14th biggest trading partner of the european union, it is an important partner to us, an important part of the eu-china dialogue. and it’s important to be frank: hong kong is a great place but all is not perfect. there remains a concern that the ‘one country, two systems’ is being undermined, and in paragraphs 1(b) and 1(l) we voice that concern – not criticism but concern. i believe we have struck a balance. freedom of speech also must be defended, now and in the future, and in paragraph 1(p) i believe we have struck a balanced statement which takes due stock of where things are. in paragraph 1(t) we set out ways in which we could support and strengthen civil society within hong kong, a crucial set of groups that are doing increasingly difficult work; they look to us for support. i am very pleased that we have reached such a high degree of consensus across the house: only two amendments of substance from the gue group in favour of greater partnership on tax work, tax avoidance, money laundering, and financial transparency. for my part, i strongly support the amendments, i urge colleagues to support them, too. i think there is a key area where we could assist in the fight against organised crime and money laundering. and with that i would warmly thank the shadow rapporteurs, our most excellent secretariat, the green/efa group staff, and i commend the text very warmly to the house.
rapporteur. – madam president, i really can be very brief, we have such a consensus on this report, the work has been done on it before we got to plenary, so i look forward to a solid majority tomorrow. i echo the points about the lack of progress on electoral reform, but we do cover that in point 1(h). i think we have struck a balanced text across the house. i would thank colleagues for the very good work and look forward to tomorrow’s vote.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, after last week’s talks, we are finally looking to the future and no longer just looking back at the past. this is a positive step for all of those involved. i know that there will be people on both sides of the english channel who may not have got everything that they wanted. for some, what was agreed was too much. for others, it will never be enough. but for so many of us in this chamber, who know the everyday realities of trying to find a deal, we know that where there is compromise, there are concessions. i believe that the important progress that we saw last week was made when both sides sought to avoid a no-deal situation, when both sides understood the need for flexibility, and when both sides focused on building a better future rather than looking back at the past. i am aware that within this house there were a large number of people that hoped for a different result to the june 2016 referendum in the united kingdom, including from my own political group and from my own country of great britain and northern ireland. amongst those people are friendships i value and opinions i greatly respect, but my message to them is simple: brexit will not change our common interests in trading with each other and with the rest of the world, in sharing intelligence to tackle terrorism and crime, in cooperating on security issues to keep our citizens safe. i was in latvia a few weeks ago as they celebrated the 98th anniversary of the british navy helping the latvians to defeat the bermont west russian army. the latvian politicians i spoke to stressed the importance of looking to the future and continued military cooperation with the uk through nato, a future where the uk continues to work with individual european nations as well as continuing to work with the european union as a whole. a future where the ecr group, and the members sat behind me, will continue to be a voice for a reformed europe, a voice for those who believe in free enterprise, free and fair trade and competition, a voice for those who believe in the freedom of the individual, personal responsibility and greater democratic accountability, a voice for those who believe in respect and equitable treatment for all eu countries, new and old, large and small. i hope that, last week, the british prime minister and donald tusk laid the first foundations for the journey ahead. a future where the eu signs a mutually-beneficial trade agreement with the uk, as one of the world’s largest economies, but where we both make the case for open and free trade. a future which reduces the burdens on businesses, allowing them to create jobs, growth and prosperity in all our countries. a future where both the eu and the uk cooperate where we have common challenges to build a better future for all our citizens. i just wonder whether i could end on a personal note, in response to manfred’s comments. manfred, as a muslim, i fully understand the christian roots of europe. but you must not confuse that with europe being synonymous with christendom. when i see the lack of diversity in european institutions, you have a long way to go to make those who are not standard white christian european feel comfortable in europe. you need to do more work, and do not allow brexit to blind you to that.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i don’t think i have ever heard so little criticism of the united kingdom in this chamber in all my life, and i guess it doesn’t really take much working out why, does it? mr barnier said earlier that there were key areas upon which he wasn’t prepared to make many concessions. well, you didn’t need to, sir, because you were up against theresa may, and she was all for making as many concessions as she possibly could, including agreeing a ludicrous bill of up to 40 billion sterling for us to have the right to leave, a continued role for the european court of justice and, in line with that, family reunions that mean, frankly, that open-door immigration from the european union is going to continue for years to come, and – almost bizarrely – a commitment for ongoing regulatory alignment. it is as if, even though we are leaving, effectively the british government wants to keep us in some form of single market relationship, so i am not surprised that you are all very pleased with her. theresa the appeaser has given in on virtually everything. but as an observation in an exercise of power, it’s fascinating. whether we like or dislike the european union, we cannot deny the power that it has got, because you managed to make a british prime minister leave downing street in the middle of the night and fly to brussels to forge an agreement with unelected bureaucrats based in brussels. it’s a form of ritual humiliation, which she was prepared to put herself through. she has danced to your tune all the way through this – you must be very, very pleased indeed. and now we enter into what perhaps may be the biggest deception yet, played on the british public. she is seeking a transition phase, and there are one or two comments here about whether the brits will get that phase. of course they will, because we are volunteering to go on paying the membership fee, to accepting all the existing rules and all the new rules. we will effectively, once transition is granted, have left the european union at the end of march 2019 in name only, and if that transition phase lasts up until the next general election, there is a real possibility that a new incoming british government/coalition could sign us up to a single market and the customs union forever. so i do understand why many in this place feel encouraged by the performance of our prime minister and, i can assure you, millions who voted for brexit are increasingly feeling frustrated and perhaps even now moving to the point of anger. it’s the same story across the whole of the west: the aspirations of the people and the aspirations of our political leaders and class are in a very, very different place. i fear brexit at some point in the future may need to be re—fought all over again.
mr president, the phase 1 agreement reached between the united kingdom and the european union is another step forward in the process of exiting the european union. as a result of the strengthening of the text, there are clear statements that northern ireland will leave the single market and customs union along with the rest of the united kingdom. there will be no special status. northern ireland’s businesses will have unfettered access to the united kingdom single market; there will be no internal trade borders within the united kingdom. we share the goal of ensuring that there is no hard border between the united kingdom and the republic of ireland. it is our view that these issues can only be fully resolved in phase 2 of the negotiations. however, the union that matters economically to northern ireland is the union of great britain and northern ireland, where trade is worth six times more than trade with the irish republic. let us be absolutely clear, northern ireland’s constitutional and economic stability will not be damaged by eu bullying in the brexit negotiations. it is important that we now move on to the next stage of the negotiations. we should not miss the opportunity for a new relationship based on shared democratic values, trade and security. this would be for the betterment of all those we represent in this house. (applause)
madam president, on a point of order, we are not having any blue cards. this is a denial of democracy. they are trying to close down debate. they do not want debate. their staff are trying to stop us having our say. this parliament is not democratic. it is a farce.
madam president, the british government has done it again. they have pulled off a spectacular piece of theatre over the last week or so. no sooner did they get the irish government and the commission to acclaim sufficient progress, than they immediately started to rubbish the joint report they solemnly signed. ‘only a statement of intent’, says david davis; ‘we’re coming to a gentlemen’s agreement’, says david davis, who thinks nothing of misleading his own parliament. but it is no surprise. it is the way they do things. they create drama through late night and last minute negotiations. they flush out the bottom line of those they are negotiating with; they make promises necessary to get others to move things forward and then they start to negotiate compromises downwards. they use ambiguity to confuse and disorientate their opponents, and then, when they don’t like what the final compromise is, they simply ignore it and don’t implement it. no one knows them better than us. the british government has been making promises to irish people for years, and then refusing to fulfil them. even today, they are negating the implementation of the good friday agreement, and that is an international agreement lodged at the united nations. they are opposing rights that they signed up to, and they are aligned with the most reactionary political party in ireland, the dup, to describe and describe their policy in ireland. so let us be clear. the resolution says that it must be fully enforceable with regard to ireland, so when the joint resolution is turned into legal action there can be no more ambiguity, no more contradictions, no more taking the british government at their word. their word counts for little, as they care little about their word.
madam president, we have said from the very start that people must be at the heart of this process. i must protect the best interests of all my constituents in wales, including those who have chosen to make wales their home and have contributed so much to our country. i also have to protect the interests of those who have chosen to make their home in other eu countries and it is unacceptable that people are still uncertain and anxious about their futures. the negotiations need to move forward, but not at the expense of citizens’ rights. so agreeing progress cannot mean that all issues are resolved or closed; they are clearly not and they need to remain a priority. this is not the final vote on this. there is a lot still to be done. looking to the future for wales and building our economy, maintaining access to the single market is critical to protect jobs and our agricultural industry and that is what i will continue to do.
madam president, i can’t believe that the conservative party, after all the years of wrangling over the eu, is now caving in to brussels. why are we letting the odious guy verhofstadt dictate terms? he is only interested in one thing and that is himself. as the eu moves to a united states of europe, we should be looking to our oldest friend, our ally, the united states of america. i was in washington last week and i spoke personally to wilbur ross, the secretary of state for trade, who said to me: ‘don’t take the poison pill that brussels will offer you if you want to deal with us’. i agreed with him. then he said: ‘otherwise they’ll send in the eu army’. he thought he was joking; i said: ‘that will probably happen’. yes, and there is clapping in there for that. yeah. against the democrats. at a time when we should be valuing our friendship with the us above all friendships, you are taking the poison pill. philip hammond, the chancellor, instead of looking forward to a low-tax, low-regulation economy, co-signed a letter with other eu finance ministers to denounce mr trump’s tax reforms. how dare he? as a remainer, he is totally trying to sabotage a us deal. in a few years’ time, over 90% of world trade will be outside of the eu. why is ms may shackling us to this failing block? yes, business does need certainty and that is why we should just walk away and move to wto rules. voters want an end to immigration. this deal doesn’t do it. voters want an end to the jurisdiction of the ecj, but mrs may has signalled another eight years. this is unacceptable. let’s walk away. thank you for your time, mr barnier, but it ain’t working.
madam president, we are used to ms atkinson’s nonsense, but she really has crossed the line this morning. she referred to mr verhofstadt, our negotiator, as ‘odious’. i see she is nodding, so i would urge her to apologise for that and retract that comment. mr verhofstadt is not of my political family, he is not of my political group, but your comments today, ms atkinson, are way beyond the line. we are used to your nonsense, but personal abuse has no place in this chamber. i urge you to retract that comment. (applause) (interjection from janice atkinson)
madam president, well, how do i follow that? but i am going to try. the eu objectives throughout the negotiations have been very clear: first, make the united kingdom look as weak as possible internationally, and second, extract as much money as you possibly can from us. so mr barnier, you have done a very good job, you certainly achieved that, and i take no pleasure in giving you that compliment. there has been gloating in the chamber this morning. there have also been lots of misleading statements. but i am going to ignore those and i am going to point out that the european union would not be where it is now but for the united kingdom joining in 1973 and contributing to the finance and international presence that you now have. so stop moaning about it and give us some recognition – if you don’t mind – for what we have contributed. but the big fudge this morning, the stuff that you don’t want to hear, the emperor’s new clothes, if you like, is the fact that the migration story is not a positive one. the economic mess that is still there in the background in terms of the european union hasn’t gone away. so please, wake up, take a reality check, stop just focusing on brexit in this chamber, and get on with doing the job you were elected to do. ms anderson, can i just remind you of one thing: i would like to see your mps take their places in westminster – that would be helpful.
madam president, in moving to the second phase of the brexit talks, some might hope that the uk government will be better prepared for this than it was for the first, but probably not. it has just admitted that there has not yet been a discussion in government on what final outcome it actually wants. it has also done no impact assessments on what would it would cost to leave the customs union, nor on what it would cost british industry, agriculture or finance to leave the european union. even phase one is put into question. according to the daily telegraph, ministers only accepted the deal because they were told that points in it were ‘meaningless, not binding or simply included to secure ireland’s approval’. ministers have even said that the concept of keeping legislation aligned has no meaning in law. despite agreeing on the outstanding budgetary commitments, britain said it might not honour them. (interjection from mr coburn: ‘good!’) despite theresa may at last conceding that eu citizens in britain and vice versa have rights, the deal still leaves them facing uncertainty, whereas the deal on ireland specifies that it ‘must be upheld in all circumstances, irrespective of any future agreement’. no such promise is given here to citizens, leaving them in limbo until the uncertain final agreement, unsure of their future status, unable to plan their future. let’s move on to the second phase, but do not pretend that the first phase issues are settled.
madam president, ms may said one of her first goals is to ensure that citizens can carry on living as before. others promised the same – those brexiteers who led us to believe they had thought this all through and had a plan. well, that proved to be a lie, just like the one on the bus. the home office letters to eu citizens have threatened deportation. brits in other countries have not received assurances that they can retain all the freedoms they now have. is it any wonder that people still feel anxious and terrified about their futures? i am furious for those who are left behind in limbo, and this agreement kicks many issues into the long grass. this house is the voice of european citizens. they trust us to make the right call on this. we cannot and we will not turn our backs on them. i certainly will not. but time is running out. we must get on with dealing with trade, the environment, science, digital, security, fishing, agriculture, and all the rest. but there were three issues to solve before the next phase – not two and a half, but three. for too many people, the future is still unclear. this parliament must continue to demand action on our citizens’ rights.
madam president, brexit is the zombie that staggers on, dragging distress and disappointment in its wake. the resolution we are debating today makes it clear that brexit means losses on both sides, but there is a stark contrast in the way the two sides are approaching the negotiations. the eu side have a clear and consistent position, and they have sheltered the eu citizens who are their responsibility, protecting their rights to travel and work and ensuring that the uk pays for the projects they depend on that we have already committed to in this budget period. by contrast, the uk negotiators have not been able to agree a position, a state of unpreparedness reinforced by the chancellor’s admission this week that the cabinet has not even debated what they hope to achieve and by david davis’s shenanigans. to constituents who feel let down by the negotiations, it is important to recall that we can still step back. this is why the green party is demanding a final say and a democratic choice between the deal as negotiated – with all the trade-offs and disappointments – and continued membership of the european union.
madam president, on 23 june 2016, the british people voted by a clear majority to leave the european union. that decision was not conditional on any withdrawal agreement or any other factor. eighteen months later, we still have not left and the leaving process is in a shambles. mrs may is a remainer; she leads a party and a parliament that, sadly, is made up of a majority of remainers. they simply do not want to leave. what mrs may and the european union intend is one of two outcomes: either to achieve a deal whereby we leave in name, but not in reality; or to delay the whole leaving process until the next general election, when the referendum result can be set aside. either way, the result of the referendum is being betrayed. her majesty’s government should not be asking the european union how it can leave; it should be telling the european union how it is going to leave. it will never be too late for a patriotic government and parliament to take control and make brexit happen.
madam president, 537 days ago the majority of british people voted to leave the eu, but for 537 days we have listened to a rump of remainers moan, whinge and cry about losing their beloved eu. for 537 days we have watched a cabal of political elitists wage an anti-democratic campaign in the uk to delay, damage and deny brexit. but at christmas time we are reminded that three wise men brought gifts to jesus for a brighter future and, in that spirit, i offer three gifts to those remainers in this chamber and beyond: the gifts of hearing, hope and a heart. hearing, so that the voice of those people who believe leaving the eu will make their lives better, brighter and freer is at long last heard by you. hope, so that someday you accept the result and start to move on. finally, a heart, because those who you have abused by calling old, stupid and ignorant for voting to leave believe you do not have one. happy christmas and a joyous brexit new year.
madam president, i will be supporting the resolution this afternoon in the votes, and i do so with a sense of real sadness and more than a little anger, both personally and on behalf of the people that i represent. scotland did not want this; scotland voted against this; this is not in scotland’s name. but we do need – and i say it through gritted teeth – to move onto phase two of the negotiations, because for too many people in the uk brexit remains white noise: a false equivalence aided by an industrial—scale spin machine telling us that somehow we will have our cake and eat it; that it’ll be alright on the night, because we’re special, we’re british. people need to see the detail, the line—by—line, the policy—by—policy, the nitty—gritty. people need to see what they’re going to lose for a brexit to become real. and in phase two, the promises of the shysters and charlatans who have so disgraced themselves even in their conduct today in this debate will be shown for what they are: a cruel deception of the people they claim to serve. this is the end of the beginning of this brexit negotiation. i look forward to phase two, where we will hold them to account. (applause)
madam president, mr smith is not being factual. 40% of scots voted against the european union. that’s a substantial minority of which i am a representative. he is misleading the house by suggesting that scots do not want to be in britain or do not want to leave the european union. that is an absolute travesty.
madam president, in my country manchester united fans still talk about the holy trinity of best, law and charlton. in the eu we have the rather less holy trinity of juncker, schulz and verhofstadt, each supporting the creation of a federal superstate. mr verhofstadt believes the nations of europe are dwarves that cannot prosper independently. in his state of the union speech mr juncker unveiled a raft of new integrationist plans, and mr schulz left this place to go around germany stirring up apathy about a united states of europe. if that’s what you want, then fair enough, but do not affect to be surprised that the british people won’t go there. even a moment’s reflection on our history and indeed our geography should tell you that. so you should let us leave the eu with good will. instead, many of you seek to punish us and it is that spirit of pettiness that will in the end destroy all your grand plans.
madam president, i welcome the fact that we have now the opportunity to move on from phase one. while we should not underestimate the difficulties that lie ahead, we now have a real opportunity to agree a deep and comprehensive deal between the united kingdom and the european union. it has always been the case that the best way to find solutions to the question of the border between the united kingdom and the european union is to discuss the trade and customs arrangements. none of us want to return to the borders of the past, but equally i cannot tolerate or accept anything that would create an internal uk east-west border. the united kingdom is by far northern ireland’s most important single market, and that must not be jeopardised – and that, mr barnier, i believe is the challenge we have to achieve. the uk and the eu now have an opportunity to agree on a deal that works for all parties that can only be achieved if we work together and with cool heads. let us move on from the grandstanding and the megaphone diplomacy in some parts of this debate. it is time for that, it is for sure not for the future.
madam president, i’m grateful to mr verhofstadt for his clarification that the phase one agreement will be put into a legal text, this is very important news, particularly for citizens who need the assurances going forward. but let’s be clear about the situation that we find ourselves in. the reason that the fantasists opposite have been able to claim, as they often do, that this is a betrayal, is because the government’s own rhetoric is wildly different from the reality that we face. you cannot have a hard border in ireland and preserve the peace process. you cannot have a hard border in the irish sea and preserve the four nations and the integrity of the united kingdom. this is integral to brexit, and in the ‘full alignment’ that was agreed under phase one it will of course mean the following: the decisions on britain’s trade and economic policy will be made in this house and in the european institutions, where we currently have a voice but where we will have none because of brexit. and it’s up to the proponents opposite to explain to their constituents how that is taking back control. it is not taking back control, it is ceding it.
mr president, i wonder whether you would join me in sending congratulations and good wishes to the new somaliland president, who will be sworn into office tomorrow. i think we should also send congratulations to the opposition party both for the manner in which the election campaign was conducted, and for the peaceful aftermath and transition. once again, somaliland has demonstrated to the world its commitment to democracy and the rule of law, and surely now deserves to be admitted as a fully-fledged recognised state.
mr president, yesterday a spokesman for the european commission said that the phase one agreement between the uk and the rest of the european union was not legally binding. it was, as he put it, a gentleman’s agreement. but when the uk’s brexit secretary, david davis, said exactly the same thing, this house exploded in one of those moments of gibbering rage that we occasionally get, even putting an attack on him into the resolution on which we have just voted. it is a pity because we ought to be approaching these talks in a spirit of seeking mutually beneficial outcomes. you rarely hear a speech by the british prime minister in which she does not look forward to a warm and close partnership with the eu and wish our neighbours every success. that is, of course, a great interest of ours. we want the eu 27 to be stable and prosperous, but it would be a very sad thing if that lack of reciprocal goodwill were to lead to a suboptimal outcome. your prosperity will matter to the uk in all situations. we want to have wealthy customers next door. presumably the same logic applies both ways round.
mr president, i voted for the resolution on the brexit negotiations with a heavy heart, in the knowledge that it is the wrong solution for the united kingdom. but the question before this house is whether or not the negotiations have made sufficient progress, and unlike october – when there was no joint agreement to vote on – it is clear that progress has been made, but sufficient progress means just that: not a conclusion. while i welcome what has been achieved on citizens’ rights, not least for the unborn grandchildren that i may have, who won’t be english or german or scottish or irish or even geordie or schwaben in their identity; they will be european. we have made a start for those people, but there is much more to be done. and to those who write to me constantly on this issue, i say: don’t give up. lobby your mps at westminster, and make sure that you have a meaningful vote and they have a meaningful vote on the final deal.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, at a time when the schengen area is under considerable strain from mass movement of illegal migration, i find it remarkable that a debate on expanding the schengen area has been considered. for as we all know, and yet many choose to deny, having no border checks at the internal borders helps to facilitate the free movement of terrorists and the free movement of weapons. it assists criminal gangs by allowing them to easily transport illegal drugs. it also plays a significant role in facilitating human trafficking across the eu. citizens in our own countries ask our governments to commit to some core responsibilities. one of the most important of these is to ask that our people can feel safe. i would ask you to consider this, because it is something that is very seriously at risk here and people constantly ask us about safety and governments keeping the people safe.
mr president, when the commissioner spoke, it was a detailed explanation of why the full integration of romania and bulgaria must happen now. at the heart of that, he said that schengen was precious to the whole idea of the european union. i have never heard, in all the years that i have been here, a stronger case made for anything about the central cause of this european union. let us also be clear about this institution, the european parliament, for anyone who is in any doubt. since 2011, for six long years, the european parliament in its committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), has had unambiguous majority debates, well—examined, detailed debates, making one conclusion, namely that second class status for romania and bulgaria is not an option. they must be fully integrated into schengen. we have supported the measures to grant romania and bulgaria access to the entry-exit system, the visa information system. we have even talked about visa-free travel to the us. we are doing this and being proactive in this cause, not just because we believe it, but because we have examined the case for these countries. this is a case not just for justice but for practicality. this is not just a case for the politics, but for understanding what it means for romania and bulgaria to be full members. then i refer again to the commission and i ask the council on this: this has not been a static process. in all of these six years, we have been strengthening the external border: entry-exit system, external border controls, the border agency, one of the fastest files ever created in this parliament. all these measures and the hard work that has gone on with all of the issues of privacy and individual liberties that we had to tackle was to safeguard the external border. with all of this, we can surely ask that today there is an unambiguous and clear demand that two countries have justice and are fully integrated member states of the european union. schengen is precious, all the measures are coming to make it, and i echo what the commissioner said: together, all of us together, will make this happen.
blue-card question. – i noticed in your speech, you were talking about this social chapter as being an important tool to be used against political parties in their own countries. do you think that is the primary purpose of legislation and ideas coming out of strasbourg and brussels – to interfere with the democratic process and to combat parties that you personally don’t agree with?
mr president, the social pillar: yet more lefts talking about rights. a wonderful example of the superstate trying to control every aspect of our lives. interference in every single way. terms like ‘social protection’, ‘economic convergence’ – and it’s all tied in to the single market. well, the europhiles and faint hearts back in the uk, when they tell us about soft brexit and staying in the single market, what they really mean is staying in this: having this kind of stuff imposed upon us and told what we can and cannot do. control over our lives. no say for the national parliament. what this is about is no control of our personal working lives, no control over our businesses, no control of us over our society. the answer that must ring clear, certainly from the united kingdom, to this – and i would urge all of our friends in europe to say the same – is no, no, no. only a true and clean brexit for the united kingdom will allow us a true, independent democracy. and we will then free the individual from the ever-growing, ever-grasping deepening clutches of this superstate.
mr president, the eurostat assessment of the sustainable development goals (sdg) progress in europe shows that good progress has been registered on the sustainability of cities, cleaner energy and responsible consumption. this proves that when the eu has a strong collective strategy, progress is possible. however, at the other end of the spectrum, we find the reduction of inequalities and the elimination of poverty, plus gender equality, remaining at moderate progress only. so what does this say about our societies? these results show that europe must focus on improving the lives and well—being of the most vulnerable. growing inequalities are not only a lost economic potential, as this report demonstrates, but they are also at the root of rising populism and extremism, which sows division in our communities and threatens european values. years of austerity politics have only made things worse, in particular in my country, as well as in greece, portugal and spain. i want to reaffirm that the number of children living in, or at risk of, poverty in our societies in 2017 is simply shameful. we need to adopt the eu child guarantee now.
i hope you will agree with me that we should all congratulate you on your new position as a vice-president here. it is the first time such a small party has been able to do it. well done. i wish you all the best in this debate.
mr president, this is a timely debate given that across the eu we have seen a resurgence of nazi and fascist symbols as the memory declines about how, under these symbols and slogans, millions of people were killed in europe. the ideology underlying these symbols is hatred of democracy and the idea that force is a legitimate means to achieve power, encouraging conflict in our society. this stands in a stark contrast to the values of the european union, yet how easily do we tolerate fascists in this house! they can comfortably use the funds of an organisation whose destruction they seek and whose values they sneer at. now, in my country and in my region of west midlands, hate crimes have spiked as a result of the referendum, the brexit referendum. they have increased by a shocking 30%. it has become a norm now across the eu to attack migrants and the places of their worship, yet it still remains not very well reported, and only one in five people actually report the incident or get any conviction. i do not believe that we can win this fight by just banning nazi or fascist symbols, important though that is. we also need to really work at changing the mindsets, at having more integrationist policies; and this is not just confined to the member states, it is also important that we really set an example here. if you look around this house there are very few people who are symbols of diversity. i think it is important if we are going to change that mindset that we try and address that within the eu institutions.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work. i know how seriously she takes this issue and the report shows that. the sexual abuse and exploitation of children and child pornography is a cross-border crime which requires an international response. it is a sobering fact that every nine minutes the internet watch foundation’s analysts encounter a web page that shows children being sexually abused. the speedy elimination of these images and the protection of children from abuse and exploitation must be a priority of the eu. it is our responsibility to ensure that the victims of child abuse are not forgotten. to do this, we must use developing technologies for the detection and removal of material and the identification of victims. the gender aspect of abuse and child pornography also must not be forgotten. research suggests child sexual abuse affects girls at a higher rate than boys, and we should take this into account. what is more, non-consensual distribution of pornographic material, including so-called revenge porn, overwhelmingly affects women and girls, some of whom are under the legal age of consent. i welcome this report’s focus on the sharing of best practice between member states. i further welcome the report’s focus on the victims themselves, including the identification, assistance and protection of those victims. finally, the focus on removal and blocking of images is particularly important. i look forward to following the implementation of this report’s recommendations and the further necessary follow-up work.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and those who have worked on this report. i also want to pick up the points that have been made in that we would hope that the commission’s next report will give us fuller details and better data. that is listed throughout the report in front of us today. as others have said, child abuse, whether online or not, is growing. it is big money and it is permutating in the light of new technologies and new opportunities, such as unaccompanied minors left in isolation and thus vulnerable, or children with disabilities. even children who consider themselves street smart can find their images used or worse. so i welcome the report’s emphasis on raising awareness and empowering young people to help them stay safe and to report. we learn that boys are less likely to report sexual abuse. i think this is where hotlines become so important because they offer confidentiality, they offer advice and they also bring action. the cross—border dimension is increasingly important and the commissioner and others have referred to some of the initiatives – some of the things that we stressed in this report – such as tracking known sex offenders, improving cross—border police cooperation through the work of europol, eurojust, and the eu’s role in helping to develop and acquire the necessary investigative expertise. again, i welcome what the commissioner has said on that. i think many of us are disturbed to discover that many member states still do not have functional notice and takedown procedures. so again, we welcome what the commissioner has said in terms of taking action against those member states in order to facilitate the directive that they should already be implementing.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, crimes involving children, particularly those that are of a sexual nature, are simply abhorrent. the uk has always proudly led the fight to combat the abuse of children, both in terms of strong criminal sanctions and a high level of care for those that are affected. uk legislation includes a very important law which permits british nationals to be prosecuted under uk law for crimes they have committed abroad. given the prominent rise in child sex tourism overseas, our citizens must be able to feel the full force of national law when committing these crimes, but more must and can be done by our governments to protect children. in particular, we must do more to tackle the ever-growing issue of illegal content being posted on the internet. whilst this may be more prominent in underground online websites on the so-called ‘dark web’, it is also a serious issue in our day-to-day social media outlets. in fact, a bbc investigation this year found that 80% of items reported as child sexual abuse were not actually removed. this is simply not good enough. only when governments are willing to take zero-tolerance attitudes will we ever see the much-needed breakthrough needed to tackle child abuse. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – there was no intention to trivialise this at all. we know it is jolly serious, of course we do, and more must be done. but do forgive the use of the language, because we have to make sure that people understand exactly what we are talking about. it is serious. something has to be done. children’s lives are ruined all over the world, and we must all pull together very much to make sure that we reduce the nastiness that goes on, so that we can actually protect our children in a better, much more sensitive way.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur. 2016 was an important and varied year in the committee on petitions (peti). this report highlights the important work that the peti committee has done in being a voice for citizens’ concerns. thanks to the secretariat and to all of the petitions team in the european parliament for their hard work in ensuring that that voice can be heard. meps across the european parliament should take our work more seriously. this is the place where personal stories of eu action, inaction and legislation are heard, as people talk about the eu needing to re-engage with the public; why not better use the tools we already have to do that? the number of petitions received shows that citizens care about their right to petition. we have to do better in outreach, and we need the resources to be able to meet their expectations. this report highlights ways to make the petitions committee more accessible in the future, to allow more people to directly present their cases through the use of technology, such as videoconferencing. of the petitions we received, many were related to brexit, both uk citizens living in the rest of the eu and citizens from the rest of the eu living in the uk, as well as raising concerns about the future of their rights, as well as uk citizens angry about losing their eu citizenship. citizens are already feeling the cold effect of brexit and this parliament must listen attentively to their concerns and defend them actively. 2016 was also the year when the new committee guidelines came into play. we in the s&d group welcome the new method of working as it is based on full consensus across the political groups and a common understanding which adds to the democratic way we work inside our committee. i would remind the epp that previous administrative rules were never endorsed by the committee, despite their attempts to include reference to them in amendments today. this report is a fair reflection of our work, and therefore i call on meps to support it.
mr president, this report is all well and good if it continues to allow citizens the freedom to choose how they travel. it was after the 1997 kyoto agreement that our chancellor, gordon brown, announced in 1998 that diesel cars should attract less vehicle tax than their petrol equivalent because of their better co2 performance. then in 2001 mr brown reduced vehicle tax on cars with low co2. this was a major change to encourage the public to buy diesel cars. yet now we are increasingly seeing dramatic change to what forms of transport we are to use. the report also seeks to comprehensively reduce the attractiveness of private forms of transport. in other words, the eu is driving us out of our cars. in a nutshell: user pays, polluter pays. as regards ‘polluter pays’, what i do find positive is a move towards zero emissions based on consumer choice, and i stress consumer choice. what i do not find helpful is knee-jerk solutions that punish the driver before any proper infrastructure is in place. certainly, after watching the grand tour this weekend, it is clear that evs are becoming more efficient and user-friendly, but many citizens do not have the financial capabilities to change their cars, and this needs to be addressed. just as citizens need time to prepare, so does the manufacturing industry. they still have forecourts full of petrol and diesel cars. encouraging the development of hybrids will help aid the transition. uk-based jaguar landrover is one company, like others, who recognised the need to change and should be commended on their projects. they are reducing nox and particles which are harmful. it is also wrong for the eu to force a change through financial penalties, dividing those who can afford and those who cannot. while some parts of this report are moving in the right direction, it will be up to the uk government – and it alone – to set the standards once we gain our independence in 2019. i finally leave my christmas message to you all. the uk referendum ballot paper asked: should the united kingdom remain a member of the european union or leave the european union? i hope the house of commons respects their decision. they voted to leave. merry christmas, everyone.
author. – madam president, in recent years vietnam has made great economic strides, but human rights organisations continue to report that the democratic freedoms of speech, religion and press are still sadly lacking. last month, 22-year-old nguyen van hoa was sentenced to seven years in prison for blogging about an intentional toxic spill along 120 miles of coastline, which destroyed marine wildlife and damaged the health of its inhabitants. he joins nguyen ngoc nhu quynh, who was also jailed in june for highlighting the same toxic spill. this crackdown on environmental activism using national security provisions in the penal code of vietnam is deeply alarming. sadly, although it is commendable that vietnam has one of the highest levels of internet usage in east asia, all media is now owned by the state, and civil and political rights are still deteriorating. in order for vietnam to remain an important psa and fda partner of the european union, i urge its government today to work to uphold the basic freedoms of its people and to release those imprisoned only for expressing their opinion.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, in this house i have always underscored the importance of strong relations with vietnam, a developing country that is slowly but steadily making progress in a number of areas and has shown itself a partner for the eu in the region. yet, while being a supporter of strengthened relations, i am seriously concerned over the deterioration of civil and political rights that we are currently witnessing. the case of nguyen van hoa, who was sentenced to seven years in prison simply for informing his fellow citizens about the impact of an environmental disaster afflicting thousands of people, is deeply worrying. as is the case of many others who are detained under article 88 of the penal code, which seems to be increasingly used as an instrument to silence those who stand up for human rights. i urge the vietnamese authorities to take seriously the pressing calls made by this house today and to review the use of security provisions to crackdown on dissidents, to release those who have been detained on that basis and to give unfettered access to the un special rapporteurs on freedom of expression and human rights. whilst we should continue to support vietnam, i really want to underline it is important that they recognise real steps have to be made in protecting human rights if we are to continue. this will go much further to ensuring security and stability in that country than oppression ever will.
madam president, as ms sánchez caldentey reminded us, vietnam and the eu have signed a free trade agreement. unlike ms sánchez, i actually think the substance of this agreement is a good agreement – a good agreement for both the european union and for vietnam. but i would remind the vietnamese that this parliament will not judge the free trade agreement on the substance of the free trade agreement alone, but also on the political situation in the country. we will take into account the human rights situation in the country, and we will take into account the labour and environmental standards in the country when we vote on this in this parliament. vietnam’s current approach to freedom of expression is unacceptable; it is intolerable. they rank 175th of 180 countries in the freedom of expression index. as we have heard from many speakers, they persecute bloggers who are sometimes only exposing environmental damage and environmental issues. vietnam has to understand that if it wants to open up to the west – and we welcome it opening up to the west – it also has to open up to internal criticism. criticism is not always opposition, it is constructive if handled properly.
author. – madam president, last month, democracy and the rule of law in cambodia received a damaging blow. basing its decision on vague accusations and legal provisions, cambodia’s highest court dissolved the cambodia national rescue party – the main opposition party to prime minister hun sen. 118 cnrp politicians were banned from political activity for five years. kem sokha, president of the cnrp, is currently being held in prison on trumped-up charges, and an arrest warrant is out for the leader of the opposition, sam rainsy. if this situation is not reversed, then prime minister hun sen will be effectively uncontested at next year’s general elections, giving him unfettered power. removing opponents is the text book move of a typical tyrant. the people of cambodia, after the genocidal khmer rouge regime last century deserve democracy; they deserve better. they deserve an independent and impartial judiciary. credible and transparent elections are vital to the health of the nation and the legitimacy of its government. this is one of the basic tenets that the eu member states hold dear and yet, cambodia is a country that continues to enjoy tariff preferences to the eu market as part of the preferential ‘everything but arms’ scheme. eu member states now have a key role to play to urge the cambodian government to protect democracy and pluralism, as enshrined in their constitution. cambodia’s obligations under the convention should be immediately reviewed and all possible pressure should be put on the government to drop charges against the leaders of the opposition and to re-establish the cnrp party.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the european union remains deeply concerned about the continuing deterioration of the political situation in cambodia and the escalating repression of the opposition and civil society. cambodia is heading towards increasing authoritarianism. in recent months, the cambodian government has taken action to stifle political opposition, to suffocate democracy. we have underlined that the decision of the cambodian government on 16 november to dissolve the main opposition party, the cambodian national rescue party (cnrp), is a significant step away from the path of pluralism and democracy enshrined in cambodia’s constitution and supported for more than two decades by cambodia’s international partners, including the european union. we reiterate that an electoral process from which the main opposition party has been arbitrarily excluded is not legitimate. the cnrp won one over 43% of the vote at the 2016 commune elections and 44.5% in the 2013 legislative elections. its dissolution disenfranchises is those voters. the 1991 paris accords created binding legal obligations upon the parties, including the duty of the cambodian government to maintain liberal multi—party democracy, as well as to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. these commitments are enshrined in the cambodian constitution. the european union and its member states have put, and continue to put, huge efforts and very significant resources into supporting the development of cambodia. it is therefore very worrying to see over the last months a significant narrowing of the democratic space in the country. on 20 november, high representative mogherini met with the cambodian foreign minister, prak sokhonn, on the margins of the asem ministerial meeting in myanmar. she insisted on the expectation that the continued detention of the opposition leader, kem sokha, and the dissolution of the cnrp would be swiftly reversed. the high representative also recalled that the eu’s development cooperation and trade preferences were reliant on cambodia’s respect for fundamental human rights. we are currently assessing the situation in terms of development cooperation assistance. in this regard, the eu has decided to suspend its support to the national election committee. the eu will continue to reaffirm its commitment to protect and to promote the universality of human rights whenever they are violated or questioned, whether inside or outside its borders. the principle of democratic inclusion and dialogue is key to lasting peace and stability. we encourage the cambodian government to find a way out of this impasse, through a structured dialogue with the opposition. we will also continue to raise with the government the need to apply the law evenly and fairly to all, and the need to ensure that freedom of association, expression and due process are fully respected. respect for fundamental human and labour rights is also part of our trade policy and underpins the legal basis of our trade preferences. our development cooperation with cambodia is long term and any consideration regarding a suspension of cooperation would have to be carefully evaluated in terms of its impact. suspension of aid could be detrimental to the population. on the temporary withdrawal of cambodia from the everything but arms (eba) arrangement, the commission, in cooperation with the eeas, is monitoring the situation in cambodia to check whether the conditions for taking measures, under article 19 of the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) regulations, are fulfilled. the european union remains ready to support the government of cambodia in strengthening cambodia’s developing democratic system.
author. – madam president, in september i visited ilopango prison in el salvador during a euro-latin american parliamentary assembly (eurolat) visit to that country. i was shocked by what i found. women had been imprisoned, their lives stolen, simply because of unwanted pregnancies, in some cases because they had suffered miscarriage or been raped. gender-based violence is a major problem in el salvador, where a woman is sexually assaulted every three hours and rape and incest often result in unwanted pregnancies. since 1998, abortion has been criminalised in all circumstances, even when continuing the pregnancy is life-threatening or when the foetus is non-viable. between 2011 and 2015, 14 women died of complications related to abortion. we know that the government in el salvador is working to improve this situation and we acknowledge the work of european diplomats supporting women who have been unjustly jailed. we hope that this resolution will draw attention to the plight of women like teodora del carmen vásquez and evelyn beatriz hernández cruz, who should be granted a pardon while we wait for changes to the law. (applause)
madam president, since 1998, abortion in el salvador is criminalised under any circumstances. any woman suspected of having had an abortion, including those who went through miscarriage, risk up to 50 years of imprisonment. consequently, many women have been prosecuted and many others have died due to pregnancy complications. el salvador’s anti-abortion law is causing nothing but pain and suffering to countless women and their families. sadly, we heard yesterday that the court decided to uphold the 30-year jail sentence for carmen vásquez. this is undoubtedly a step back for justice and women’s rights. denying women and girls access to sexual and reproductive rights, including safe and legal abortion, is a violation of their rights to life and health. we urge the parliament of el salvador to support the bill introducing the reform of the criminal code in order to decriminalise abortion under certain circumstances. we also urge the government to introduce a moratorium on the enforcement of the current law. today’s resolution is a message to these women. you are not alone. we stand by your side in this battle.
mr president, i have an oral amendment in connection with some legal action that took place last night. we need to change recital c so that at the end, it reads: ‘whereas after spending the last 10 years in prison, teodora del carmen vásquez’s case was reviewed by the second sentencing tribunal on 13 december 2017 and her appeal was rejected.’.
mr president, i welcome this report. trillions of pounds, euros and dollars are being siphoned off through loopholes to avoid tax, while our public services are starved of money and the world’s poorest are hit hardest. this is a global problem but the panama papers revealed britain to be top of the leader board, with the greatest number of offshore companies and trusts amongst eu nations. sadly, though, our government has not shown leadership in westminster to tackle tax dodging, and here in europe, and again and again, the conservatives have sought to water down and block action to combat tax avoidance, including failing to vote for the conclusions of parliament’s committee of inquiry into money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (panama committee). i welcome the blacklist of tax havens and sanctions against them, more transparency, more cooperation, as well as a globally recognised definition of a tax haven. it is high time we end having one set of rules for the super-rich, and another for the rest of us.
mr president, it is an extraordinary thing when we think of the blood and treasure that was poured into afghanistan in an attempt to keep out other countries one way or another, the huge damage done to that state because of rival powers attempting to gain influence there. the one thing that was never really properly tried, and which still has not been tried, is properly integrating afghanistan into the world economy, allowing the institutions of private property and free contract to flourish there. we are still, i am afraid, playing these great game power politics which end up treating the ethnic groups and the tribes of afghanistan as pawns rather than as constructs made up of individuals, each with their own interests in markets and success. i hope that the time for afghanistan will come. may i, while i am on my feet, take this opportunity to thank you, mr president, for all the work you have done in the chair over the year, and wish you a very merry christmas and extend the same to your officials and to the interpreters.
mr president, we were, i think, slow to grasp the enormity of what has been happening in burma. it was a while before the stories of the atrocities suffered by the rohingya people began to spread beyond newspapers that were either in muslim-majority countries or muslim-oriented in their readerships. but i think we have now got a sense of the magnitude of what is taking place. i wonder whether we were slow because it challenged our western perceptions. we think of buddhism as a kind of californian, hippy, peaceful phenomenon and we tend in our recent coverage to think of islam as militant rather than being on the receiving end of violence. it is what behavioural psychologists call the problem of agents and patients. we simultaneously struggle to see people as victims and as doers of violence. there is, at the moment, no worse human rights crisis on the planet and we cannot leave overwhelmed bangladesh to try and deal with this issue bilaterally. if ever there was a case where we needed to step in, this is it.
mr president, i welcome this report, which includes numerous references to the work of the uk’s internet watch foundation (iwf), based in my constituency. however, as an iwf champion, i am deeply worried. they tell me an end to eu grants to the iwf and the uk safer internet centre puts at risk the amount of child sexual abuse material they will be able to remove from the internet. it risks the hotline that enables the public to report this material anonymously and unless alternative funds are urgently found, uk safer internet day will end in 2019. we cannot allow this to happen. no one who voted for brexit voted to make the internet more dangerous for children. the next tech-savvy generation face new dangerous challenges – cyber-bullying, online stranger danger and revenge porn. uk safer internet day is the biggest safer internet day in europe, reaching nearly three million children and their parents each year. we must save it.
mr president, transport represents almost a quarter of europe’s greenhouse gas emissions and is the main cause of air pollution in cities. this excellent report calls strongly for a change towards more sustainable modes of transport, a deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure and an ambitious action plan for the increasing use of electric vehicles. i agree entirely with these priorities so i was proud to vote for the report. in addition, it was good that the amendment to the report, seeking to promote incentives to use mega trucks, was defeated as these are dangerous and unnecessary. however, it was disappointing that the point in the report on phasing out new emitting cars by 2035 was not approved. the european automotive industry must adapt much faster to mobility transition.
