the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased, as rapporteur, that the maltese presidency has made the prima mediterranean partnership its first priority in the field of research and technology. nine member states, two associated countries and four third countries are jointly participating in the programme with a community contribution under horizon 2020, eur 200 million and an equal contribution from the participants. with a ten-year implementation horizon, the objective is to improve the efficiency, safety and sustainability of agri-food systems, as well as the management of the public water resource in the mediterranean basin. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of illegal immigration, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. prima is one of the european union's rare efforts of scientific diplomacy that can help to address the forced exodus of mediterranean residents. i therefore look forward to constructive cooperation between the council, the commission and the political groups to ensure that prima can be launched in good time.
the commission i thank you, mr president, and congratulate you on your election. the situation in the aegean islands is not improving. more than 16,500 refugees and illegal immigrants are trapped there, and there are only 7,000 places to stay. i bring you the cry of anguish of the people of chios, where i was last weekend. the feeling of insecurity among the citizens is a given. at present there are clashes between refugees and illegal immigrants, violence and theft against residents. the european union must deliver on its promises. where are the hundreds of experts you promised to send to the aegean islands to help with the granting of asylum, mr katainen? where are the 6,000 monthly relocations of refugees from greece to other countries of the european union? what measures do you intend to take to free the 64,000 refugees currently in greece? the greek people cannot stand the situation at the moment.
the commission in every european council, your eagerness for economic recovery grows, but the capitalist machine does not really move forward, thus fuelling fiercer competition, militarization of the union, harsher anti-people measures everywhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the government's hoax about a "bad imf and a good european union" is exposed. capitalist barbarity with any person - international monetary fund / european institutions / bourgeois governments - is not humanized. the syriza-anel government, the same anti-people but more capable than the previous ones in the massacre of the people, is methodically taking measures - mass layoffs with best eu practices, "grave-plates" - collective agreements, generalization of flexible work with crumbs - to complete its third memorandum, but also for many decades after that, with a permanent fiscal cut in a single anti-people direction: permanently reduced surpluses with a reduction of tax exemption on the lowest incomes, new taxes and vat for the people, new reductions in wages, pensions, social spending and benefits. these are the prerequisites-sacrifices for the european central bank's quantitative easing and debt regulation, which means only new hot money and tax breaks for big business, not popular relief. a recovery for profits and competitiveness and a decline for the people, which can be stopped in one way: by organization and struggle, the working people's factor fighting in the forefront, strengthening the power of the kke to overthrow.
ecr), in writing. the european council of 15 december discussed the refugee crisis and welcomed the situation in greece. however, once again, it seems that mr tusk has no idea what is happening in greece, considering that 16,500 refugees and illegal migrants are trapped on the aegean islands. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the commitments on relocations do not apply. of the 66,400 relocations agreed to be made from greece to other eu countries, only 8,000 have already been made and the procedures are moving slowly. the dissatisfaction of greek society with the eu's refugee and migration policy is intense and this does not even seem to be taken into account in the european council conclusions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia.
the commission mr president, the financial transaction tax is intended to force the financial sector to finally contribute to covering the costs of the current economic crisis, to boosting public revenue and to taking measures against tax evasion. but what measures has the commission taken to combat tax evasion and to deal with the economic crisis? as the panama papers and luxleaks scandals have shown, the number of multinational companies making excess profits and hiding their capital in tax havens is not decreasing at all, while at the same time the policy of memoranda, imposed by the troika in countries such as greece, has led to lower wages and unemployment. the only solution to the problem of tax evasion and tax avoidance is to tax corporate profits where they are made, while the real solution to the economic crisis will be to abandon austerity and tax-cutting policies against citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the situation in the hotspots in greece is unacceptable because of the overcrowding of thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants. overcrowding due to turkey continuing to send refugees to the aegean islands, where 16,500 people are trapped while there are only 7,000 places to stay. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the over-concentration is due to the fact that of the 66,400 refugees who were supposed to be resettled in other countries of the union, only 8,000 have been resettled. the european union has promised to send hundreds of experts to assist the greek authorities, but has not done so. mr. stylianides, we have denounced in all tones the fact that the government has left thousands of refugees in the snow, especially in moria on lesvos, but also in ritsona. but the situation on samos, and also on chios, where i was this weekend, is no better, despite the fact that the famous ngos have received hundreds of millions of euros to support refugees. so where did the money go, mr. stylianides? because ngos are throwing parties with the money for the refugees. i have been asking olaf to intervene in this matter and to carry out an audit here in this chamber since october. i am still waiting, mr stylianides, for an answer to the question i put in october about the mismanagement by the greek government of funds for refugees. we're waiting for an answer. there are responsibilities of the commission too. there are responsibilities on the greek side too. greece can no longer tolerate more refugees and illegal immigrants, but refugees can't be in the cold either.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and today on lesvos, you proposed tents again. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary reforms. it claims, withholding factual information, that 57,000 are housed and heated. he admits that the rest, 6,000, are freezing to death. this is a direct result of the eu-turkey agreement which condemned them to a double imprisonment, to indescribable living conditions, to waiting for torturous asylum, while ngos are squandering all these funds and channelling them into the camps. this is all the result of the joint decision of the european union and all governments, not just višegrad, to close the borders, to build walls with repression, deportations, euro-border guards. immediately, now, the double-trapped are to be moved from the islands to their final destination countries. the urgent need to leave no refugee or migrant in a tent, no one without heat, electricity, water, adequate food and clothing for the winter, and state-funded health care. outside the centres, ngos. no creation of detention centers and down with the golden dawn fascists from refugee children and their right to education.
i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i wish you the best of luck in your re-election. the problem we are discussing is always topical and unfortunately it is becoming more acute because the problems are increasing. in greece, in my country, you know that the target of relocation by september 2017 should be 2,000 to 3,000 people a month. to date, only 7,000 people have been relocated, which means the institution has failed. also, there is a threat - i emphasize the verb in quotation marks - of a gradual resumption of transport from march 2017, i.e. a reactivation of the dublin treaty, which, as you know, has been suspended since 2011, which has helped the country to deal with the problem in part. also, according to the eu-turkey agreement, you should know from official data that we have daily arrivals of foreigners, about 150 people a day, that is about 4,000 a month. ladies and gentlemen, 16 000 people have gathered on the islands and, despite the fact that the greek state has not responded, has not been able to adequately manage the problem, you all know that the greek people have shown examples of wonderful humanitarian work towards these people, who have never been treated as numbers but as people. the problem is acute and the european union must help. i say this because you all know that a single country, a single state, cannot do it, and if greece fails to manage this very important problem, the whole of the european union will have failed.
the commission madam president, many people in and outside parliament, dressed in the mantle of humanists, with a political identity and an opinion they want to impose, speak of the plight of refugees and illegal immigrants. they claim to be humanists, but in reality they forget to be human. in europe, and especially in greece, which has been hit by the memoranda, there are unemployed people who are unable to survive, families without a roof, electricity, food and fuel for heating. our fellow men and our fellow citizens who look to the humanity of all of us. the tragedy of all this cannot be ignored or second-guessed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help refugees, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. but no politician and no government has the right to turn aid exclusively to illegal immigrants and to be indifferent to the problems of greeks and europeans in general. if we cannot solve the problems of our fellow citizens, then morally and legally we have no reason to exist politically. i would remind all of you, humanists and non-humanists, that you have a voice in the european parliament because you were elected by our fellow citizens and not by illegal immigrants. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would agree with what you are saying if, for as long as we have been debating this in parliament, there were a distinction between refugees and illegal immigrants. under international law, it is one thing to be one and another to be another.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, today's debate on refugees and migrants facing extreme weather events is a good opportunity to show more solidarity. the unprecedented weather conditions that have recently prevailed in areas such as the island of greece have tested the resilience of state institutions and refugees. it is necessary for the european union to confirm its support for the most appropriate care of refugees and migrants. already, the evidence shows that the majority of these people are receiving adequate care with material support and additional staff. but since the weather conditions have pushed the greek state apparatus to its limits, we must decide as soon as possible to provide additional aid to the areas affected by the bad weather, as we do in all cases of natural disasters. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the amount of eur 200 million you mentioned is very small in relation to the number of refugees and migrants hosted on greek territory, which exceeds 60 000, and the objective difficulties, taking into account the geographical circumstances: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is not overloaded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not saying that everything is going perfectly, but europe must do more to help.
s & d) and the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's where people freeze in the street - and our hearts freeze too - and that's where money will take its place. people are not freezing in greece because they have not been allocated money: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the people on the islands are freezing because of the incredible administrative inefficiency, the squandering of resources between ngos and governments and, most of all, they are freezing because of you, because of us and because of european policies. the build-up on the islands is because the deal with turkey is not being completed on our side. because, since march, people have been waiting for the asylum application to be processed, so that those from vulnerable groups can move inland and get asylum and others can return to turkey, and because the countries that processed a million refugee applications in one year are not giving us the people that they promised, those 800 specialists that they promised us, to process 15,000 applications. that is what we are asking of europe. we're not asking for an alibi, we're not asking for money. we ask for the people you promised us and solidarity.
the commission mr president, since transport is a vital part of economic and social life, transport and logistics efficiency is necessary to ensure competitiveness, create new jobs and business opportunities, protect the environment and mitigate climate change. as early as 2007, the commission has drawn up an action plan for freight logistics aimed at improving the european union's freight transport system, but without sufficiently improving the sector. at the same time, the cold war conflict between the european union and russia has had adverse consequences for the carriers of the european south. greek hauliers have lost over 10 million euros from the russian embargo, as 40% of greek agricultural products exported to russia were transported by truck. the union's commercial transport system should therefore be improved urgently and more efficient and environmentally friendly road transport in the supply chain ensured.
the commission mr president, the union speaks of establishing a european pillar of social rights and at the same time, in practice, systematically promotes the exploitation of workers, sacrificing their future on the altar of serving the economic interests of the big multinationals. the same people who are talking to us today about social rights are the same people who are demanding the complete deregulation of the labour market in greece, the same people who, without any explanation, have demanded the abolition or the complete degradation of collective agreements in the private sector. the list of actions by the european institutions is long. in addition to predatory taxation, it also includes the liberalisation of mass redundancies, and with the new flexible forms of work, many workers in greece are working, ostensibly, part-time, but in reality they have hours that exceed eight hours. coupled with the scary reduction in the basic wage that was also imposed, we have the result of workers working perhaps ten hours a day for 250 euros. if you really wanted convergence and indeed upward convergence, the first thing you would have done would have been to introduce a single european basic wage. since you'll never do that, i'm guessing the purpose is to serve financial interests only.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, europe is proud of its social model, but if we look at the unemployed in greece or the workers in britain and germany with their 'zero-sum' contracts, that is to say, the slaves of the 21st century, we realise that our famous model is being destroyed. the european union has strict rules on budgets and markets, it has penalties and fines, but it has no such rules on labour and social rights, only words and wishes. the social pillar, which provides for free collective bargaining on wages and other conditions of cooperation, must oblige each country, the commission and the european bank to support this position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission the european commission, mr president, speaks of the social dimension of the european union and the social triple a, while it continues to support the austerity policy that has filled europe with armies of unemployed and 120 million poor people. a policy that has sent the younger generation into mass unemployment and underemployment. the european union, with its stability pact and its forced fiscal adjustment, has dismantled the welfare state and the pension system. at the same time, in countries with memoranda, such as greece, ireland, cyprus, portugal and spain, wages and pensions were cut. in greece, the troika does not even recognize the right to conclude collective agreements. if you want a social europe, then, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission, stop talking big and give up the famous conferences and abandon austerity and memoranda, abolish the stability pact, adopt policies for a fair distribution of the wealth produced, abandon the policy of flexible labour relations, support the european single wage.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the european pillar of social rights is a subtle attempt, through always inexpensive slogans, to leave behind regulations that worsen the situation of workers. it compresses labour social rights downwards, promoting 'equitable distribution' between the poor and the impoverished, excluding any burden on the employer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the commission's proposals. it promotes active ageing, that is, part-time work with part-time work, extortionately, after the pensions have been smashed. it is preparing to raise age limits in line with life expectancy, it is promoting the establishment of minimum and sub-minimum wages by the state, the burying of 'collective labour agreements' based on competitiveness, profits, for which wages, benefits, rights are constantly sacrificed. it talks about wages per region, which means special economic zones and quarters. the workers should be worried! they must organize, they must fight back!
gue/ngl), in writing. the report of the european parliament's employment committee on a european pillar of social rights contains a number of pertinent findings, such as that the social dimension of european integration has been hit hard by the eurozone crisis, as many states were forced to implement harsh internal devaluation measures due to the lack of common stabilisation mechanisms in the context of incomplete monetary union. it is also clear that, as the report says, with this crisis the european union has come to be seen by many citizens as a mechanism that creates disparities, inequalities and social injustice. the call in the report for the european commission to work together with the social partners to come forward with a proposal for a framework directive on the promotion of decent work, to ensure, among other things, the right to collective bargaining and collective action, i.e. the right to strike, is also positive. the problem, however, is that the european commission not only fails to bring a similar draft directive to parliament, but its policy of undermining collective bargaining when it acts as a member of the 'troika' in the greek programme and imposes the weakening of the force of collective agreements in greece. so we need actions, not words, and we need them now.
i want to support the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues. i believe that we need to highlight the human rights violations in the world, including in countries that are strategic partners of the european union. indonesia is certainly a key partner of the european union, but if indonesia is a partner and receives financial aid from the european union, then we have a moral right to criticize the human rights situation in this country. the two cases that have been mentioned here and that are the reason for the human rights problem in indonesia today need to be highlighted. it's the papuans, activists, that's one thing, and it's the governor of jakarta. both cases are about how freedom of speech in indonesia is being relativized and lately suppressed. it is also critical that this country has reinstated the death penalty, something the european union fundamentally disagrees with, and which is unfortunately being used in this country. so today's resolution is, i think, a good guide for the commission's action towards indonesia.
the commission madam president, i would like to congratulate you on your election and i would like to say that i support the resolution i have signed, pointing out that in the light of the accusation of blasphemy against the governor of jakarta and the arrest of yeimo and alua for participating in peaceful demonstrations in indonesia, we note that human rights violations are on the agenda in that country. in particular, the christian governor of jakarta made a statement questioning the interpretation given by some muslim theologians to a passage of the koran, and as a result he is now accused of blasphemy, which in indonesia can be punished by five years in prison. meanwhile, two young men, yeimo and alua, were released after being arrested for participating in protests, but are still facing possible life sentences. it is therefore necessary, first, for the indonesian government to drop the charges against yeimo and alua and the governor of jakarta, secondly, to respect the human rights of citizens in that country and, thirdly, to fight corruption immediately.
the commission madam president, i too congratulate you on your re-election. the protection of human rights is the duty of everyone who feels that he is first and foremost a human being. in this sense, the european union is right to be concerned about the protection of human rights in all european countries, and in this case in the central african republic, where human rights are being violated. the european union is not a party to the geneva convention, but it is a party to the geneva convention, and it is a party to the geneva convention, and it is a party to the geneva convention, and it is a party to the geneva convention. how have the human rights of those who have been forced to flee their homes because of war been protected, a flight which the european union, while it could, did not want to prevent? how have the human rights of all those who are being sent by turkey, with the tolerance of the european union, by the hundreds of thousands to greece, a country economically devastated by the austerity of the memoranda, which cannot serve them and will therefore suffer there, been and are being protected? how have the human rights, including the right to life itself, of those who have died of cold in greece, serbia and the other countries of the european union been protected? how were the human rights of those who drowned in the mediterranean protected? the european union is responsible for these deaths and the aid it now wants to provide does not absolve it of its enormous responsibilities.
the commission i would like to inform you and the house of a particularly dangerous development against the right of members to exercise their office freely. on 24 january, at a meeting of the committee on petitions of which i am a member, i expressed my views and voted in favour of the report by two european union citizens against gold mining in halkidiki, for reasons of public health and the environment. the day before yesterday i received a letter from the company 'hellenic gold' which is carrying out the above-mentioned gold mining operations, which letter in essence criminalizes my right to freedom of expression and vote in the exercise of my duties as a member of the european parliament. i denounce this threatening behavior of the company "hellenic gold". i declare that i am not intimidated by their threats and i call on you, mr president of the european parliament, to take the necessary steps to ensure that we are able to exercise our rights freely as members of the european parliament and that we are not threatened by any private enterprise.
the commission mr president, the choice of trump expresses a rearrangement of the shares of the capital of the united states. the unacceptable bans and repressive measures of the trump administration are a dangerous development. they are targeting millions of immigrants and refugees, who are major victims of the capitalist system that the trump administration is also running. the goal is to maximize the profits of american corporations at the expense of american workers. the united states' economic protectionist movements, which are concentrating their forces in their confrontation with china, trying to get closer to russia, are sharpening the contradictions, setting in motion rearrangements. brexit, the support of the so-called eurosceptics, are the response of a part of capital in europe that does not earn what it expected within the framework of the european union, also exploiting popular discontent. the cohesion of the european union and the eurozone will be tested. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. the peoples must reject any alliance of capital and follow the path of their own interests for another, new organization of society and the economy, freed from the chains of the european union and nato-type wolf alliances.
gue/ngl), in writing. the decree of the new us president issued on 27 january 2017 constitutes an insult to human dignity. the new us president has issued a decree banning for 90 days the entry of citizens of seven countries (iran, iraq, syria, libya, somalia, sudan and yemen). such a general ban on people who have individual visas and who have therefore been deemed by the us authorities themselves not to be dangerous constitutes an unfavourable treatment based solely on the fact that they are of a particular nationality, without there being a state of war between the us and those states. it is even remarkable that at least in the case of iran there is not even any major internal turmoil or anomaly. in its deepest logic, the decree of 27.1.2017 therefore targets people regardless of their individual characteristics, simply to serve some political expediency, symbolic or otherwise, i.e. it indiscriminately turns the citizens of these seven states into objects of predetermined adverse treatment by the usa. i hope that the competent american courts will prove to the new president that he cannot ignore basic human rights.
the commission mr president, vice-president šefčovič the energy union can be a vehicle for creating jobs and for all citizens to benefit, if we can finally put citizens at the heart of this effort. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in greece, for example, we are gradually replacing lignite in electricity generation. but we need support to ensure adequacy and safety in extreme conditions, for example by extending interruptibility or maintaining free rights, as we voted in itre for the change to the ets. we need support in the fight against energy poverty, with targeted community funding and with encouragement from the private sector. increasing the energy efficiency of buildings and homes in the south will give us jobs, will bring profits, will reduce the bill and will benefit the health of citizens, as long as we explain all this directly so that citizens embrace this effort.
the commission mr president, mr šefčovič, the energy union requires equal treatment for all, and at the moment this is not the case with regard to greece. first of all, our farmers, who are in the streets protesting against the troika's tax-cutting policy, are paying a high price for agricultural oil, and this is because the troika has imposed an increased excise tax, which does not allow these people to be productive. secondly, there is the famous energy poverty. the greek people are impoverished. at the same time, the excise duty on heating oil has skyrocketed. all of greece is freezing. this is because, mr šefčovič, the troika is imposing higher taxes. is it possible that this situation can continue? how will greece proceed? how does he get a competitive edge? these are crucial questions, mr šefčovič, and you must answer them because the greek people will no longer tolerate the policies of the troika.
the commission mr president, on the libyan-italian migration axis in the central mediterranean, the union has implemented, in cooperation with the italian authorities, a policy of control and maritime deterrence of the uncontrolled influx of migrants. i want to make a comparison between libya-italy and greece-turkey. italy may, because of its distance from the sea, monitor and intervene in ships loaded with cargo leaving the libyan coast. greece is unable to do the same because of the island's short distance from the asia minor coast. the union is even planning to send forces to libya, due to the instability of the government, to combat smuggling networks. turkey does not combat these networks but instead rewards, controls and threatens them. in italy, there's a main gateway. in greece, each island and micro-island is a gateway and hot spots are growing at a rapid pace, as is youth unemployment. i would like to give the union a piece of advice: if you are really looking to deal with the flows of migrants, do not look at greece and italy. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe.
the commission mr president, mr mimica, the european union must turn its eyes and attention to the aegean islands, which erdoğan now threatens to fill again with refugees and mainly illegal immigrants, to the aegean islands where 16,500 refugees and mainly illegal immigrants are trapped and whose inhabitants can no longer stand it. if you visit these islands, the inhabitants will tell you that the situation has reached an impasse. in samos, where i'll be this weekend, the situation is explosive. the same is true of lesvos, and the same is true of chios, which i visited on 15 january. and there the residents react. they can't stand any more illegal immigrants, because most of the people who gather there are illegal immigrants. another thing they cannot stand is the creation of new hot spots. we must finally take action. the 66.500 people who have been relocated from greece to the european union must finally be relocated.
the commission mr president, the european union, having failed miserably to control the flows of illegal migrants from turkey to greece, is now preparing to take similar action in an attempt to stop the flow of illegal migrants from libya to italy via the central mediterranean. in this context, it is wasting, without reason and without effect, large sums of money which it could have used to correct, eliminate or at least reduce the problems faced by the most vulnerable europeans. it could also give that money to the countries where the illegal immigrants are coming from to get some development. none of this is working. he's still running the same failed policy. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i agree with you. the european union must first show solidarity with the greek people who, for the seventh year in a row, have suffered as a result of the implementation of the memoranda. what does the european union do, give four hundred euros for every illegal immigrant, provide them with free food and healthcare, ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission mr president, the crisis in south sudan has escaped the radar of global publicity. after a period of relative calm following the end of the civil war that broke out in december 2013, south sudan is now facing the collapse of the peace process and a return to violence, to the point of fears of genocide. some sixty thousand people have fled the country as the conflict has escalated in recent times. violence has been escalating since the collapse of the peace process and ethnic cleansing is already underway, with extreme hunger, gang rape and the destruction of villages. in addition, millions of people - three quarters of the country's population - lack access to basic goods such as food, water, and medicine. the international community has an obligation to prevent this situation from recurring, so that what happened in rwanda does not happen again.
the commission mr president, the un security council has repeatedly expressed its concern about the human rights situation in both the democratic republic of the congo and gabon, both of which have entered a period of destabilisation. in particular, the security and human rights situation in the drc continues to deteriorate and kabila's decision to extend his term in office has provoked a storm of opposition. meanwhile, the recent announcement of president ali bongo's re-election for a third term in gabon has sparked violent incidents in the country, with 1100 arrests and three deaths. both countries face a problem of police violence, which now hits activists and dissidents, while the numerous arrests recorded raise serious concerns about whether the rule of law still exists. it is now clear that the international community must intervene in both these countries.
the commission mr president, female genital mutilation for non-medical reasons is an unacceptable, anachronistic and barbaric practice which must not only be condemned but also eliminated altogether. it is a disgrace for civilized humanity in the 21st century to allow women's human rights to be violated and to tolerate the existence of states that treat girls and women like animals, to accept or ignore their abuse and the biological and psychological problems that are created in them, problems that no one knows when and if they will ever be rid of. according to available data, 140 million girls and women in countries in africa and the middle east and 500 000 in countries of the european union have been victims of this barbaric practice. in what sense of logic and morality do we tolerate the girls being deprived of the sacred right to motherhood for these women? as the european union, we must act immediately to ensure that the perpetrators of these crimes are punished in an exemplary manner and that this unacceptable custom is completely eradicated from all countries of the world.
the commission mr president, according to unicef research at least 200 million girls and women have undergone female genital mutilation in 30 countries around the world. somalia, guinea, djibouti, sierra leone, egypt and eritrea are the countries where this unacceptable and inhumane tactic is most frequently practiced. the only positive development has been in egypt recently, where the government has decided to take a harder line on this barbaric custom and has passed a law that provides for seven years in prison for those who practice such procedures. in europe, despite an explicit ban on the practice, the number of women who have undergone female genital mutilation is estimated at half a million. sometimes genital mutilation goes hand in hand with forced marriages, as is seen in the united kingdom and elsewhere. the european union must take action to eliminate this kind of inhuman treatment altogether.
the commission mr president, since december 2012, the european union has signed a free trade agreement with colombia and peru, which provides for the gradual abolition of the banana tariff of eur 75 per tonne by 1 january 2020. at the same time, and in order to avoid destabilising the european market and causing injury to union producers, the european union has established a bilateral safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism. however, given that the banana production sector plays an important economic role in several european member states and directly or indirectly employs 37000 people, the european union should oppose any free trade agreement that is expected to harm european banana producers, not only in the canary islands but also in crete, and also lead to a shrinking of small businesses and deregulation of labour relations. the union's objective must be to protect the banana producers of the union and not to profit from multinationals.
the commission mr president, the european union's overseas fleet is an important part of the overall fleet and contributes to employment and to the supply of fish to the union market. however, the current regulation on fishing authorisations for these fisheries has failed, showing serious weaknesses, as the activity of european union vessels outside union waters is not regulated by the current regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the external fleet is managed in a sustainable manner. in addition, in many member states of the union, coastal and island regions are experiencing a significant economic recession which is leading to a decline in the population of the regions. in countries like greece that are affected by the memoranda and austerity measures, fishermen are experiencing the consequences of the agricultural memorandum, resulting in economic recession and targeting. it is therefore necessary for the european union to rebuild the primary sector, to focus on the blue economy, to increase funding in the fisheries sector and to boost employment, particularly in the aegean islands.
the commission mr president, from 2017 onwards, funding for the erasmus+ programme is expected to increase, as the low funding for the 2014-2016 period resulted in very low success rates of some parts of the programme and as a high number of applications were rejected, disappointing the expectations of many applicants. however, given the extreme imbalances in unemployment rates across the union, erasmus+ funding should be tailored to the economic needs of each country. the programme could be a breath of fresh air for young people and especially for greeks who are affected by the memoranda and unemployment. at the moment, young children's dreams for a better tomorrow are falling apart as they see that the greek labour market cannot offer them a job that meets their needs and educational level. for these reasons, they migrate abroad in large numbers. the european union must therefore allocate more funds to countries with high unemployment rates, such as greece.
the commission mr president, sport is a large and rapidly growing sector of the economy of the member states of the union and makes a significant contribution to growth and employment, while also playing an important role in the lives of european citizens. however, the image of sport is often tarnished, either by hooliganism and violence that discourage fans from attending sporting events, or by the ever-increasing number of doping cases that violate the moral values and principles of sport. at the same time, various pan-european professional sports federations are state-in-state, impose coercive heterogeneous rules and have become ad hoc monopolies that violate the competition rules in the european union, while abusing their dominant position on the european sports market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers.
the commission mr president, recently statements by the quartet of european governments and the greek government of syriza/anel, as well as the other parties that voted for the third memorandum, on when the evaluation of the memorandum will be closed, express opposing interests within the union and hoaxes about the good of the european union and the bad of the international monetary fund, but for the people everyone agrees: a new memorandum package with a labor jungle and a fourth memorandum, after 2018, with spending cuts for bloody surpluses, a reduction in the tax exemption of the poor, a new pension cuts. it's not the government that's being blackmailed, it's the people, of all people, not to react. grexit, elections, calls for national unity for another massacre of it. the government agreed to it. she's only concerned with how heroically she'll sell them, not if, but when she'll legislate the measures. the other parties are pressing her to hurry. the poor farmers in greece who are fighting over taxes, high costs, low prices, the common agricultural policy that subsidizes big farmers and uproots the rest, are setting up blockades all over greece. the only way for the people to survive is to generalize, it's a social alliance for the overthrow.
the commission mr president, yesterday marked 21 years since the 1996 crisis in imias, where three members of the greek armed forces, lieutenant commander christodoulos karathanasis, lieutenant commander panagiotis vlahakos and chief of staff hector yalopsos, fell for their country. on sunday, january 30, 2017, the turkish armed forces took yet another highly provocative move that directly challenges the territorial integrity of greece. a turkish missile boat carrying the chief of staff of the turkish armed forces, general hulusi akar, together with the chiefs of the turkish army, navy and air force, violated greek territorial waters and approached the greek islands of imios. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today alone there have been 138 violations, while turkey's leadership is constantly questioning greece's sovereign rights in the aegean, culminating in erdoğan's provocative and dangerous statements for a revision of the treaty of lausanne. the greek people cannot tolerate the provocations of turkey and erdoğan and responds to them with "molons laves".
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. respect for the rule of law is a cornerstone of any member state of the european union. the debate shows that there is general agreement that we should be following the situation in romania closely. we support the struggle of the romanian people who are mobilizing en masse to strike at corruption, corruption which is certainly not only characteristic of romania but also of other member states of the european union. corruption is not tackled either by decriminalising offences involving the misappropriation of money of less than eur 200 000, or by releasing corrupt politicians from prison, or by letting criminals leave prison on the pretext that there is supposedly overcrowding in prisons. it is certain that this legislation, which was passed in an emergency, must be repealed.
the commission the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but that it is a political entity, and that it is not a political entity. the country is facing huge corruption problems and fake passports have been detected many times. it is also facing widespread and highly organised crime, which it has already exported to several countries of the union. the country's political personnel also recall other times and situations, with former presidents becoming even prefects in neighbouring countries, perhaps avoiding prison with the support of the european union of course. as regards human rights, the people of abkhazia and south ossetia, whom you refer to in the report as a population, as if you were talking about sheep, have experienced and continue to experience on a daily basis the 'progress' of georgia in this area, which even invaded with its armed forces against civilians and was finally forced to withdraw when russian tanks reached a few kilometres outside tbilisi. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission mr president, at a time when greece and the european union are facing huge refugee and migration flows, the european union has decided to exempt georgian citizens travelling to the european union for a short period from the visa requirement. the decision to abolish visas is certainly taking georgia a step closer to its european path. but for that to happen, it must be ensured that georgia respects human rights, the rule of law and the rights of minorities. we should not forget that there is a greek minority in georgia which has lived and worked in this country for hundreds of years. we therefore call on the competent authorities in georgia to fully respect the rights of the greek minority and, moreover, to ensure that the greek pontic people are given back their homes, which, unfortunately, have been illegally occupied by third parties.
member of the commission. – mr president, the protection and promotion of children’s rights is a real priority for the commission. we must ensure that the rights of those who are in particularly difficult situations, such as the victims of abduction or children in migration, are fully respected and promoted. for instance the proposal for the recast of the brussels iia regulation, which was adopted last year on 30 june, strengthens the rights of the child. it introduces a new obligation concerning the hearing of children and specific measures to enhance the efficiency of return proceedings in cases of parental abduction. i would like to thank mr zwiefka for his comprehensive report. i fully support the call on member states to strengthen mutual trust and administrative cooperation between them on this important matter. training for legal practitioners working in the field of cross-border adoption is essential in this respect. the commission is ready to co-finance relevant projects proposed by interested member states and stakeholders in line with the current financial framework. the commission is aware that the lack of recognition of adoption orders between member states may entail problems both for the parents and, especially, for the child, but we lack updated data on this. the commission did a study on the subject back in 2009 which was discussed at a joint conference with the council of europe in the very same year. however, that study did not provide the commission with data, as member states either did not keep statistics or simply did not want to share them. we are aware that adoptive parents may encounter problems when they move to another member state and that the adopted children’s civil status may be questioned. but let me be clear: this is a very sensitive area of law and, for any legislative proposal in the area of family law to be adopted, we need unanimity in the council. you mentioned yourself that family law is a domain for the member states. any initiative on the recognition of adoption orders at eu level therefore needs to be very strongly evidence-based. for instance, how many cases of lack of recognition are we talking about? what are the key aspects invoked when recognition is challenged? how are member states dealing with such cases? currently, preliminary work and consultation regarding a possible initiative on the recognition of domestic adoptions are being carried out at international level in the context of the hague conference on private international law. further developments within the hague conference can help clarify the depth and extent of the problem and the willingness of member states to deal with it at international level, as well as any need for corresponding action at eu level. i am following this issue closely and will keep parliament informed. in parallel, we will continue to support member states on this.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up by mr g. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the views he has expressed. the question of the crossborder aspects of adoption has been raised many times in the committee on petitions, where we have discussed this issue and we consider it very important. in recent times, important issues have arisen in relation to crossborder adoptions that require a different approach from the european commission. first, we must ensure that all adoption decisions are made with the child's best interests as the sole consideration for a better tomorrow. this is why it is important, depending on the age and maturity of the child, to always take into account the child's own opinion. at the same time, every effort must be made to keep the siblings together and to preserve the identity of the child himself. in addition, european legislative action is needed to facilitate the cross-border recognition of adoption decisions and to put an end to excessive red tape between member states. finally, austerity and cutbacks policies are certainly having a negative impact on the social services themselves, which also play an important role in this respect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, crossborder adoptions in the european union are a major issue, affecting the fortunes of thousands of families who have adopted or wish to adopt a child. the existing arrangements not only fail to protect children and parents but actually create obstacles to their free movement between the member states of the union as in many cases they require repetitive bureaucratic procedures which often prevent families from moving to another member state. the protection of children must be a priority for all of us and the cross-border recognition of adoption certificates contributes to this objective. although there are some issues to be resolved, i think that, in general, the report by the distinguished mr zwiefka is moving in a very positive direction and we must proceed on this basis in order to improve the procedures for examining adoption cases, to remove the obstacles that are affecting thousands of european citizens and, above all, to ensure that children do not pay the price of the lack of cooperation between states.
the commission mr president, the need to have children from different families is often met by adopting children from countries other than the parents' country. since every child has the right to live in an environment of love, affection and care, intercountry adoption should be governed by rules which ensure a minimum of certainty and are applied, if possible, by all countries of the european union. the formal proceedings in this case are not the dominant element. the key element is to enable the child to grow up in a balanced and harmonious way, and this is why families who adopt must show the requisite seriousness and respect for the child. finally, i would point out that in order for a child to be brought up properly and not have psychological problems, he must be brought up in accordance with the laws of nature, with both parents, both mother and father, and that adoption of a child should not be a means of satisfying unhealthy desires and various illicit obsessions.
the commission madam president, the use of conventional pesticides is increasingly being questioned because of the risks they pose to human health and the environment, particularly when these products are not officially authorised or when they are used in a safe manner. however, farmers need to have a wide variety at their disposal to be able to protect their crops and decide which measure is offered to protect their crops in the most sustainable way. low-risk biological pesticides could provide an alternative to the use of conventional pesticides and contribute to the achievement of sustainable agriculture. therefore, in order to ensure human health and environmental protection, the availability of organic pesticides on the market should be increased compared to conventional plant protection products.
the commission the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. it is the only way to reduce poverty on the planet and the only way to reduce unemployment, since the world is now filled with millions of unemployed. of course, there can be no growth as long as the developing countries are over-indebted. the west, the g7 and china must therefore proceed with the cancellation of the debts of the developing countries. at the same time, abandoning the policy of austerity and forced fiscal adjustment, which the imf often imposes on the developing world, combined with debt cancellation, will really stimulate growth in these countries and thus we will have a limit on illegal immigration. we have huge flows of migrants to europe right now. we have huge migration flows towards greece and especially towards the aegean islands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but we haven't addressed the root of these problems because, as usual, we avoid looking at ourselves in the mirror and criticizing ourselves. the report on the european concept of development fills a permanent gap in the union's external policy. the allocation of funds for the development of third countries and developing countries is a form of curbing migration flows. these funds are necessary to strengthen states, build stability, create prospects, combat poverty and social inequalities. combined with the control and accountability of the governments of these countries, it's a good start. the european emergency trust fund, the european external investment plan and the union budget in general are funded by european taxpayers. i sincerely believe that development is, among other things, an inalienable human right.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the consequences of the crisis. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the crisis. first, the exclusion of the cement sector from the list will make the exports of many member states uncompetitive vis-à-vis countries outside the system. in particular, the greek cement industry, with 13 000 employees and a 45% trade intensity, i.e. more than a multiple of the 10% threshold, will be driven to wither and disappear. secondly, the eligibility for financing new projects from the newly established modernisation fund should be based on 2015 or at the latest 2014 to reflect the current economic reality in the member states. thirdly, as regards the inclusion of shipping in the ets, any regulation at regional level may have adverse effects on the industry at european level. the aim should be to establish such a system at the level of the international maritime organisation in due course. the commission has already submitted amendments to this effect and i would ask for the particular attention of the members and their support.
the commission madam president, the environment committee's proposal for a 40% reduction in emissions by 2030 for the european union includes, among other things, the exclusion of cement from the list of carbon leakage risks, as well as the future establishment of a compensation mechanism for importers. if this proposal is accepted, there will be a major problem in the cement manufacturing and marketing industry, because by introducing strict emission reduction rules in the developed countries of the european union, we are creating carbon leakage, i.e. the shifting of production to other countries which are not subject to these strict restrictions and which are therefore becoming more competitive. this will have devastating consequences for the european cement industry, and especially for that of greece, because the operation of four or five of the six cement factories in the country will be endangered, which should not happen because many thousands of jobs will be lost. we therefore oppose this proposal, even if it is a matter of great sadness to the dear rapporteur, whose birthday is today.
s & d) and the madam president, this report is the first step towards meeting the objectives we agreed at cop21 in paris to tackle climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conditions for participation in the fund are that a country's gdp in 2013 is below 60% of the european average. greece was just over 60%, and since 2014 it has been below the threshold. the choice of 2013 as the calculation year for a fund that will start operating in 2021 is illogical and deeply unfair. with amendment no 149 tabled by me and my greek colleagues, we are calling for 2014 and 2015 to be designated as base years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i am asking you to support us. it is, in fact, a matter of solidarity with greece.
the commission madam president, the union's competition policy has achieved representative results, such as brexit, the volkswagen, ferrostaal, deutsche telekom, siemens scandals and the luxembourg tax haven. it flooded europe with illegal immigrants, seeking cheap labour, without insurance and without labour rights. this is not a union, it's an amateur factory. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is forcing small and mediumsized enterprises to move their headquarters to other countries, as is the case with many greek enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market. this leads to balance, prosperity and peace. a simple example is the implementation of a low corporate tax policy, with profit tax rates and a grace period for new or innovative companies. but this is not being achieved by power-hungry and self-serving politicians. just resign! there are better and more honest men, more qualified to take on this role.
the commission madam president, for competition to function properly in the european union, european industry must not be placed in a situation that is unfavourable to the world, particularly in terms of energy costs. at a time when the trump administration is threatening to cancel the paris climate agreement and china is relentlessly polluting the environment, the european union, as we saw in the previous discussion, has decided to drastically reduce carbon emissions. this decision affects the competitiveness of the european economy. the ppp is being driven into financial insolvency. the entire greek cement industry, which employs 13,000 people, is at risk of closure and greek shipping is affected. i therefore tabled amendment no 162 in the previous debate and asked that greece be exempted from the obligations of the european emissions trading system under article 10c of directive 2003/87/ec, because 2014 should be taken as the base year, when greece's gdp was less than 60% of the union's. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, in 2017 no member state has achieved equality between men and women. gender equality is a fundamental right and a basic foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. progress is slow and uneven. significant gaps and forms of discrimination persist, despite strong evidence that women's empowerment has made significant progress and has led to poverty reduction, development and challenges. moreover, women's entrepreneurship is an important economic factor on a global scale and women's participation at the economic level contributes to economic growth and job creation. but when an economy is hit, the first to be targeted are women. in greece, the unemployment rate for women is 27.7%. women are the population group most affected by the austerity policy in greece. the european union must take action to stop women being victims of stereotypes.
the commission madam president, the lack of transparency and the imbalanced composition of many expert groups in the commission make it necessary to check the register and the composition of these groups. since the lack of transparency has a negative impact on the trust of citizens of the member states in the union's institutions, the effective reform of the commission's expert groups system should be based on the principles of transparency and balanced composition. as early as 30 may 2016, the commission had laid down horizontal rules on the establishment and functioning of the expert groups in order to open calls for applications for the selection of members of those groups and thereby increase transparency. finally, the register of expert groups should aim to further increase transparency in these groups and clarify the ways in which underrepresented social groups' organisations will actually be encouraged to participate in the expert groups.
the commission madam president, whistleblowers play an important role in preventing, detecting and reporting irregularities and illegalities in relation to expenditure linked to the union budget, as well as in detecting and publicising cases of corruption. for this reason, they should be protected by the union, as laid down in the last report on the european ombudsman, which i was rapporteur for, and which explicitly mentions the need to protect whistleblowers. however, most eu member states have so far failed to offer adequate legal protection to whistleblowers, thus weakening an important tool in the fight against corruption. the protection of whistleblowers and journalists should therefore be legally guaranteed and strengthened throughout the european union, where their action is aimed at protecting the public interest. finally, another mindset on ethics and conduct should be established to ensure that whistleblowers are not subject to retaliation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. you said greece is a black hole. for seven years now, greece has been following the advice of the european union. unfortunately, the medicine they're trying to cure the patient with is wrong, and they keep poisoning him. how do you comment on this situation ? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission mr president, the clichés of euroscepticism and populism, which are constantly being used to cover up the mistakes and omissions of the political caste that rules the union and to mislead the citizens, are clearly rooted in the treaty of lisbon itself. many do not remember, or pretend not to remember, that the treaty came into being after the failed attempts to ratify the european constitution, the classic example being the defeat in the french referendum. the evil that european citizens are really driving out is the lack of democracy. you must understand that it is unthinkable for them to have their lives and the fate of their country decided by unelected commissioners and heads of institutions and departments. they consider it highly undemocratic to hear that the commission, which neither elected nor represents them, exercises the executive power of the union. in a genuine representative democracy, the expression 'by the people for the people' applies. in simple terms, the executive and the legislature have physical substance, responsibility for actions and accountability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, the evaluation should have been completed long ago, at least by 5 december last year. the delay is a disaster for the greek economy. these are not my words, they are the words of the prime minister, in an interview in november and the words of the minister of national economy, in the same month. the uncertainty is bringing back the nightmarish scenarios. the government's postponement tactics refer to the disastrous first half of 2015 and all this for domestic consumption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's budgetary powers are not undermined by the fact that the council of ministers has not yet adopted a decision on the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the government is allergic to privatization issues. even those that have been agreed do not go ahead. there is a flaw in the program and that is raising taxes rather than curbing spending and, most importantly, creating new wealth. to get our country out of the crisis, we need the tripartite european orientation: parliamentary democracy and free economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that this is the way to get out of this great crisis at the lowest possible cost, with the help of the european union.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr dombrovskis, the implementation of the memoranda in greece has turned the country into a vast social graveyard. although greece under the three memoranda took loans of 280 billion euros, the country is filled with millions of poor and armies of unemployed. more than 400 000 of our young people have emigrated abroad, and 500 000 small and mediumsized enterprises have closed. the greek people lost €146 billion in asset value. wages and pensions have been cut and the tax-cutting policy continues unabated. the government debt rose from 123% of gdp in 2010 to 183,5% of gdp in 2016. at the same time, the crows are trying to seize the homes of the greeks, while the looting of public property continues with taiped and the citizens' fund. so where did the 280 billion euros in loans go, mr dombrovskis? they went back to paying off old debts. they went back into the pockets of the creditors. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the hostages. the european parliament has been a party to the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states, which is a very important step forward in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states. but the creditors and the eurogroup who did not dare to appear here today - mr dijsselbloem did not dare to come here - may these gentlemen know that the greek people will soon throw the troika and the creditors all out of our country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, as mr dombrovskis has told us, and as mr juncker, mr dijsselbloem and mr moscovici have said, according to the official figures from eurostat, greece is returning to growth and exceeding the targets it had set itself in the agreement. the primary surplus for 2010 was four times what was agreed and for 2016 we have a small growth instead of a recession. the international monetary fund has fallen off its forecast again, and growth for 2017 and 2018 is in the order of 3%. the question is therefore: will you help the greeks to finally get out of the spotlight of growth and continue to reduce unemployment more rapidly, or will you let time pass by succumbing to the blackmail of either mr schäuble or the international monetary fund, which produces instability and backwardness? those who talk about grexit at this time are doing damage to the eurozone and are seeking "tsiprasexit". mr schäuble must stop playing with matches in a fuel depot. they call him that now, even in germany. not just the left, the greens and the social democrats. even mrs merkel is trying to put a brake on him. the international monetary fund must finally accept, mr dombrovskis, the official figures from the commission and eurostat, and stop asking for absurd and extreme things, such as not restoring to greece the collective bargaining system which is part of european rules, part of the european acquis. the eurogroup of 20 february must and can produce a 'white smoke' with a fair deal. there's no time to lose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greeks are keeping their promises. it's time for the lenders to keep theirs.
the commission the second evaluation of the economic adjustment programme for greece is nothing more than a new methodology, a pretext for imposing on the already impoverished greek people new unacceptable memorandum measures. this morning we were discussing the future of the european union and i wonder how there can be a future for this union when its leaders, in conjunction with the international loan sharks of the international monetary fund, are working together to impose new unacceptable and burdensome measures and to impoverish the people of one member country economically. to impose on the proud greek people a modern form of genocide. they destroy their health, their education, their homes, their pensions and their wages, they force young people to emigrate, they create a huge problem of youth unemployment and, in addition, they impose on young people a low birth rate. ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that in ancient greek tragedy the machine-god gave the solution. the solution to the modern greek tragedy will be provided by the true god, using as an instrument the party of greek nationalists, whose resonance in greek society is constantly growing. and remember this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr balz, mr juncker was your party's candidate for president of the commission in the european elections, and mr dombrovskis is a leading member of the european people's party. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. mr dombrovskis presented the important progress made. none of them blamed greece or the greek government. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. do you agree with the imf ? you want to close the appraisal? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the greek economy, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, my country, greece, entered into the memoranda in order to avoid the supposed bankruptcy and to remain in the eurozone. today, seven years later, after years of austerity and reforms worked out by the institutions, the international monetary fund and the eurogroup, greece is a country without national sovereignty and in permanent economic and social bankruptcy. the troika and the greek governments have gone down in history as responsible for the greatest political and economic scandal, for the greatest colonial plunder of a people in modern times. in the name of staying in the euro and competitiveness, wages, pensions and social spending have been cut. collective bargaining has been abolished, flexible forms of work have become the norm and the country's basic infrastructure is being sold off. the results ? the biggest recession in peacetime, higher unemployment, higher poverty rates, a disintegrated labour market, a continuing ballooning public debt, and 500,000 young people have emigrated from the country. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what do the institutions want now? further reductions in pensions, a reduction in the tax-free allowance and easier mass redundancies. the greek people are once again remembering the great 'no's' of history and the 'no's' of the recent referendum. he will say no to the new measures being prepared by the lenders and the syriza government. he will say no to the memoranda that have condemned him to poverty and misery. it will say no to a monetary union whose aim is the permanent transfer of wealth from the weak to the strong. institutions and the greek government are threatening the greek people with the grexit accident. so i say to you that this accident will become a conscious choice of a people fighting for dignity, democracy, prosperity and development. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
gue/ngl), answer to a question with a blue card. i thank you, mr president, and i said that i would gladly accept it, because, really, time does not permit more detailed discussions, so that we can cross-reference both the arguments and the figures. the figures are questionable because, while there were some growth indicators, it seems that there is a lag in the last quarter. but i'm not into that. these figures are in the air unless certain other conditions are met, which i have tried to analyse. as regards mr henkel's proposal, because when it is put forward - and as you have heard i am in favour of a conscious and planned exit of greece from the euro area - it is said that this is the 'antidote schäuble', because it was said. i therefore answer you: we do not want the german euro or the german drachma for the growth and recovery of our country. we want a planned exit from the eurozone prison with a development plan that can lead the greek people to prosperity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission mr president, in the midst of competitions involving major economic interests rather than the people, there is another series of bargains between the troika and the syriza-anel government on the evaluation of the third and the promotion of the fourth greek memorandum for many years to come. we've been through this before. the government is cultivating illusions about a bad international monetary fund and a good european union, of best anti-working-class practices, and of course it wants to set up, as we said this morning, its own european monetary fund. he's bargaining not when but when he'll legislate new barbaric measures if he wins relief for capital and not for the people. the negotiating table is crushing the rights of the working people. increased taxation of the poorest, tax breaks for businesses, a 15th cut in pensions of up to 30%, mass layoffs, abolition of collective agreements, flexible work with starvation wages, permanent cuts in social spending and surpluses bloodied by the people. the only ones who agree and hurry because they want the measures are the industrialists, the bankers, the shipowners and the other parties competing for the dirty work. this development requires anti-people slaughter. the recovery of profits requires further bankruptcy of the people. he can't reconcile a job and a life of dignity. workers and capital cannot have the same flags. the blocs of resistance of the farmers who are protesting in athens today should be joined by the blocs of workers, the self-employed, the unemployed and the young. their alliance to overthrow barbarism, to impose development in the interests of its own interests.
the commission mr president, the second evaluation of the greek third programme should have been completed, on the basis of the original timetable, in the first quarter of 2016. the only thing we can be almost certain of is that it will be closed by june 2017, so that the greek government can be funded on time and pay six billion euros to its creditors in july 2017, and that there is no credit event and a forced exit of greece from the eurozone. in my view, mr tsipras' government bears the main responsibility for the long delay, which increases the social cost of crisis management and limits the positive economic outcome of the difficult measures being implemented. polls show that more than 80% of greeks believe the government is moving in the wrong direction, and the same is true for 60% of those who voted for syriza in the september 2015 elections. the government of mr tsipras is politically weakened. the commission has not been able to implement the agreements reached and is not in a position to devise an economic policy that will bring greece out of the crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the problem will be solved by us, hopefully soon, in greece. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the other day mr dijsselbloem said that the yield was higher than expected. the other day mr juncker said that greece had made tremendous changes. mr moscovici said that greece had made more changes than any other country. and only you blame the greek government. so i want you to tell me: which one is it? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr. dombrovskis is right in front of you. ask him what really happened.
ppe), reply with a blue card. i think it is a very big step forward that today syriza is trying to hide politically behind the people it was begging and denouncing until the summer of 2015. this transformation of syriza is positive. we have helped, of course, and we have imposed it, but i think that the interpretation of what the european commission representatives say is always selective. if you think, mr syriza, that the european commission, the european institutions, have joined your policy, you can with that certainty put your policy to the judgment of the greek people. let's see if, of the 36% you had, you'll get 15%.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr vice-president, from 2010 to today, seven whole years, the same story. europe in cooperation with the international monetary fund is supposedly trying to save greece and it is not being saved. if this is true, then those who have drawn up the successive bailout plans should have resigned, because their failure, as they say, puts the euro and european cohesion at risk. but the truth is different. the greek government has unfortunately signed everything you have demanded, against the expressed will of the greek people and against the fundamental principles of the european union. only with the privatization fund, for a hundred years our bailout lenders will plunder the public property of the greek people. and today, supposedly to close the second review, you're pretending to be in conflict with the imf. but you also agree in substance to complete disregard for employment relations and everything else. the truth is that you are serving the plan to repatriate industrial production to europe. the truth is that you are creating state-specific economic zones and greece is your model. the truth is that, from the supposed instability in the euro caused by the supposed greek problem, some are hoarding. the german trade balance and its surpluses, ladies and gentlemen, reveal them. the continuation of this policy is now a direct attack on every greek and european citizen. the greek people, and the peoples of europe, must and will oppose your plans, ignoring the commitments of any of their governments.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. madam president, what you said about flowers and springtime was very nice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they're not in the mood. you just pointed out what the greeks didn't do. that the troika all these years, with the wrong recipes of austerity and memoranda, has brought greece to this point, that greece's debt is no longer sustainable and the lenders know they'll never get their money and have mortgaged all of greece's assets, does that say anything to you?
s & d) and the mr president, a young greek man experiences an unemployment rate of 44%, whereas in the european union the rate is 18%. at the same time, it is aware that the prospect of growth, with 'jobbish' banks and ever-decreasing investment, is not there. for years we've been talking about tax reform, but the only change we've seen is the continuous rate increase. moreover, today we have a government that has lied monstrously to the people and creditors who continue to demand contradictory and harsh measures to close the appraisal. note that, at the forecast level, the imf's baseline scenario for debt says it's going to be in the order of 275% of gdp in 2060. if we adopt the european forecasts, this will fall to 140% of gdp, that is, overnight. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. madam president, as a greek, i want to thank you for really describing what is happening in my country at the moment. i would like to ask you a question, and i would also like to ask all my colleagues in the european parliament, because for as long as we have been talking about greece and the country's huge debt, which it cannot repay to its creditors, i have not heard any colleague, precisely because we are all defending the values, principles, rules and directives of the european union, mention one fact: the fact that for any country - there is a directive that mentions this - that is in committee, its debt should be checked. for greece, this did not happen. greece has entered a process of paying off a huge debt that its citizens have never learned how it came about. if you can answer them for me or if someone else wants to answer them.
s & d) and the mr dombrovskis, today is groundhog day. we had the same conversation 13 months ago, the same conversation four months ago. the commission says that everything is going well, the econ committee assures us that the reforms are under way, but in greece we continue to cut wages and pensions and to dismantle the private economy. for seven years we have been concluding memoranda containing all the structural reforms needed to bring the country out of the crisis, but in the meantime, in the evaluation, our partners are only considering the budgetary measures that interest them, so that they can get the money back. that's how they keep greece alive in the emergency and our governments govern without having to clash with the powerful client state that they have either created or inherited and augmented. so let's wrap up, fast, on february 20th, the 14th in a series of evaluations since 2010. because in the icu, we don't have many options, and sudden death is a time-out. but let's not get into crocodile tears. we don't respect the sacrifices of civilians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
the commission mr president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, despite the figures you have presented, which are positive, the delay in the second evaluation is adding to the bill. you know that for us greeks the 'slower the delay, the more expensive it is' applies and, of course, the bill for the delay comes to us and the greek government is primarily responsible for the development, but the course of the greek programme also weighs on you the creditors. the reason is simple: you are responsible because you have conspired a completely recessionary mix of taxes on taxes, even though you know that taxes kill taxes. you are responsible for not reacting positively, definitively, categorically to the opening of the new debate on grexit, which not only puts my country in great danger - close to disaster - but also undermines the common currency. you are responsible for not implementing in time the promises you have made since november 2012 to reduce the cost of servicing the greek debt. the solution for greece, dear vice-president of the commission, is another policy mix to be implemented after the elections with the new democracy at the helm of the country. the new democracy will not increase instability, it will reduce it. the elections will bring stability to the country. they will end the uncertainty and the bigotry and put greece back on track, completing the program in 2018.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the international monetary fund's report on the greek economy contains a pile of unfounded estimates because the fund's technocratic ladders, which were bitterly refuted in their optimistic forecasts in 2010, have now found themselves at the other end and show an extreme and unjustified pessimism. the fund's demands for new harsh austerity measures in greece, such as the reduction of the tax-free threshold and pensions, are socially unfair and untenable since the tax-free threshold is not higher than what is justified by the economic situation and since pensions have already undergone more than 12 consecutive reductions. on one point, however, the fund is right in noting the need for drastic debt relief for greece, which is clearly unsustainable at its current levels of around 180% of gdp. so greece needs, first, a quick closure of the assessment without unfair measures, second, quick debt relief and, third, entry into the european central bank's quantitative easing program.
the commission mr president, a lot has been said in this chamber. the institutions, which are probably not institutions, are playing with each other and with the greeks. the interests represented by the institutions belong to the international monetary fund, just as many of the union's member states are members of the international monetary fund. so the collusion between the institutions and the international monetary fund is being done under the table against greece. for two and a half years now, we have been hearing the same thing about the greek problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and to his credit, only mr. houdis told the truth. although we are separated by a great ideological chasm. i would therefore like to say to these gentlemen that they should hide and not mention here the problems of greece, those who have brought greece into the mess it is in now.
the commission madam president, the greek people are particularly interested in the wider transnistrian neighbourhood, as there are over 100,000 ukrainian citizens of greek origin living in ukraine and speaking the greek language. the greek community in ukraine is a very important community. we are concerned, madam president, about the fate of the greek minority in mariupol, which has been living peacefully for centuries in the wider region of donetsk. these people, although thousands of kilometres away from greece, continue to preserve the traditions, customs, customs, values of our country. it is therefore very important for us to ensure peace in the region, and for that reason. the two warring parties must therefore exercise restraint and come to an understanding, because that is what the interests of the peoples of the region demand, and that is what the greek minority in mariupol demands.
the crime of perpetuity in palestine continues with the escalation of israeli repression against the palestinian people. murders, injuries, arrests, uprooting of palestinians, even from their homes inside israel and, now, intensifying new settlements of 4,000 homes being tolerated by the european union, the united states, nato and their agreements with israel, despite the alleged complaints. as for the united states, the trump administration's announcements to start the process of moving the american embassy in israel from tel aviv to jerusalem are frustrating the israeli government. the ground is being prepared for a new escalation of competition in the region which, once again, will be paid for by the blood of the people. the greek syriza-anel government not only maintains but provocatively upgrades economic, political and military relations with the criminal state of israel. the kke remains resolutely in solidarity with the palestinian people's struggle to establish their own independent and sovereign state, within the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, next to israel. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
ni), answer to a question with a blue card. we have found it, all these years, to speak of a people fighting for the right to a homeland, to consider that people as terrorists. the state of israel is a terrorist, and imperialist interventions are terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy. these are the things that people hide, the things that people bleed for. the european union, the united states and nato have great responsibilities in the wider region and the people have rejected this terrorism.
the commission mr president, on monday 7 february, the israeli parliament, in defiance of the un resolutions banning settlements, finally voted to continue the settlements by rebuilding thousands of homes in palestinian territory, the west bank and jerusalem. this year alone the israeli army has completely destroyed some four hundred homes and other buildings in the west bank while proceeding with the seizure of palestinian land and restricting the movements of palestinians living in the occupied territories. instead of resolving the palestinian question, the israeli government is insisting even more on the settlements in judea and the west bank and stresses that they will continue with undiminished intensity, which may lead israel to the international court of justice in the hague. we believe that israel must now comply with the un resolutions on this serious issue and stop the settlements, which are illegal.
the commission mr hahn, i have not heard a word from you about the provocation and the anti-greek albanian frenzy, which has no end. i have not heard you say anything about the illegal seizure of the properties of 123 families of the greek ethnic minority of northern epirus by the drumadas of chimara. i have not heard you say anything about the vandalism of the homes of the greek minority. mr hahn, the revival of albanian nationalism is particularly worrying. albania must realize that it must respect the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus, which it is brutally violating, a minority with a population of over 250,000 people, a minority which on 17 february, in three days, will celebrate the 103rd anniversary of the declaration of autonomy in northern epirus on 17 february 1914. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of the former yugoslavia, and the european union has been involved in the negotiations with the countries of the former yugoslavia. they promote the redemptive idea of greater albania and demand border changes in the balkans and territories belonging to greece. the european union must take measures to protect the greek national minority in northern epirus. i am absolutely opposed to the opening of pre-accession negotiations between the european union and albania.
the albanian government is making every effort to create the conditions for the opening of negotiations on the country's accession to the european union, but it is itself undermining these efforts for two reasons. the first reason is that it either supports or tolerates the actions of certain extremist circles in the country, which in the context of plans to create a greater albania express expansionist aspirations on the territories of all the neighbouring countries. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the albanian people are suffering from a serious economic crisis. so albania does not create the conditions for good neighbourliness. the second reason is the continuing unacceptable violation of the rights of the greek minority in northern epirus. you are well aware of the measures of police terrorism taken against the greek minority, the demolition of orthodox churches, the ban on teaching the greek language in schools and many others. all this will be corrected if the european union decides to immediately suspend the accession procedures with albania.
the commission madam president, bosnia and herzegovina must take measures to combat the organised crime and corruption that are a daily reality in the country. in addition, reforms are needed to implement the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights. bosnia does not respect the human rights of minorities, both of the bosnian serbs who have returned there and of the roma. it is clear that the dayton agreement has not solved the fundamental problems dividing the peoples of bosnia. on the one hand, croats express their discontent at being forced to share the territory of bosnia with bosnian muslims, while on the other hand the serb population of bosnia and herzegovina wants the separation of the republic of serbia from the federal state. the situation is tense. the bosnian authorities must take measures to defuse the tension, and the european union must contribute to this.
the commission mr president, as the ecofin council conclusions point out, growth and employment in the union countries are hampered by the risk of certain macroeconomic imbalances. but, mr dombrovskis, we have heard nothing about the macroeconomic imbalances caused in the euro area by germany, whose trade surplus reached a high of eur 253 billion at the end of 2016 and whose current account surplus even exceeded that of china, reaching eur 266 billion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained, and that the budgetary authority is able to take action in the event of a crisis. because germany is currently effectively reining in and manipulating the eurozone and sucking the wealth out of the european south. at the same time, the measures you are taking against the european south, the austerity measures and the violent fiscal adjustment, are disrupting growth. we are waiting for an answer to this crucial question, mr dombrovskis.
the commission mr president, a healthy banking union requires, first of all, the separation of investment and commercial banks. we need, mr dombrovskis, a kind of european glass-steagall act, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support this. secondly, there is a need for a european deposit guarantee scheme. member states have spent trillions of euros to bail out the banks. we had, in other words, the socialisation of the losses of the banks, and all of this was paid for by the taxpayers. so to save the banks, the public debt was increased. with the first memorandum in greece, german and french banks that held greek government bonds worth €150 billion were bailed out, and now that the banks have been bailed out, both in greece and across europe, they are attacking the borrowers, who have been impoverished by austerity and unemployment and can no longer pay their loans. we need a public fund for red loans in greece and europe, so that the 'crows' do not seize the assets of the borrowers.
mr president, ceta serves the interests of the monopolies and is a single market project for the further increase of capitalist profits, with important geopolitical implications. the large business groups in the european union and canada are seeking to gain a profit advantage over their competitors. the united states, with its strong position in canada, plays a particularly important role in these competitions. ceta paves the way for the challenge and abolition of any worker rights that are still standing, with mass layoffs on both sides of the atlantic. in the name of protecting investors and entrepreneurship, the greatest possible freedom of movement for capital, goods and services is guaranteed, by, among other things, crushing small and medium-sized farmers, by abolishing elementary environmental regulations and any minimum levels of food safety and environmental protection that were still provided for until now. the last obstacles to monopolies, to the liberalization of state and other services, are being removed, marking their unimpeded surrender to capital. the custom-made establishment of investment courts aims to secure guaranteed profits for monopolies, not only directly from their investments, but also through compensation. the responsibility of the syriza government in greece is grave and its deception is great, for while it has co-signed ceta in the european council, syriza officials are presented as protesters. the communist party of greece votes against this unpopular agreement which is not open to recommendations or corrections. the struggle against the agreements and the interests of capital is part of the struggle to eliminate the causes of capitalist exploitation, to satisfy the needs of the people.
madam president, true to the dictates of international big business, of multinationals and the ideology of globalization, you will be voting today on a despicable trade agreement. the commission is aware that the agreement will not be voted for in all the national parliaments, and it is trying to impose it by means of the trojan horse of provisional application. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. you don't care that bio-fighters can't withstand the onslaught of corporations. after all, they don't have lobbyists and huge amounts of donations and funding to influence decisions, they don't have media to propagandize all the time. they only have their vote, no matter how much that bothers you and how much you wish you could take it away. but it is the vote of the people that will make your vote today irrelevant. fortunately, there will soon be national governments in many european countries and ceta will be a piece of paper with no force. the citizens must only be patient and try to hold out as long as you apply it.
in writing. due to an insurmountable personal obstacle, i was unable to be in strasbourg on 15 february to take part in the vote on the ceta agreement between canada and the eu. if i were here, i would vote against this agreement, because i share the view that ceta, despite some improvements, mainly following proposals by the member states during the period of completion of the negotiations, still has a negative balance for european economies and societies. on this basis, i would vote against the agreement, as did the gue/ngl group of the european left to which i belong.
in writing. i voted against the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement (ceta) in the vote in the european parliament's plenary on 15/2/2017, as i had publicly announced for years, since the first moment the eu-canada negotiations began. i was against ceta from the start, because it is a trade liberalisation agreement which has a number of very serious negative consequences for greece. it opens the way to the introduction of genetically modified food, dissolves labour relations, commodifies public goods such as health and education, and subverts the principle of prevention, which is important for protecting public health. it favours multinationals while destroying small local producers, it opens up the service sector to canadians and at the same time it creates a system of extrajudicial procedures bypassing the courts of the eu member states. in addition, ceta disrupts the agricultural economy in europe and greece and abolishes the increased protection granted to greek feta as a product of protected designation of origin (pdo), irreparably damaging the production and quality of greek feta, a traditional product which, from exports alone, brings greece over eur 185 million. at the same time, ceta is favouring the main canadian producer of so-called "fetta", which, notably, is scopian!!!
mr president, i have opposed the ceta agreement from the outset, and that is why i voted against the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the european union and canada, as well as the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement. i believe that ceta is an agreement which destroys european agriculture, destroys greek agriculture, does not protect products with a designation of origin such as greek feta and olive straw, opens the way to gmos, dissolves labour relations, commodifies public goods such as health and education, subverts the principle of prevention, which is important for protecting public health, is at the service of multinationals and, at the same time, creates an extrajudicial system bypassing the courts of the member states. it also bypasses the parliaments of the member states, which have the power, and it is there that we will fight to prevent ceta from being passed.
mr president, i would like to thank the house today for the adoption of amendment no 149 which gives my home country of greece the possibility of benefiting from the modernisation fund funding, in the context of the revision of the directive on the air pollutant trading system. i would like to thank in particular the 27 colleagues of the european people's party, without whom we would not have been able to obtain the 38 signatures needed to make the amendment a european parliament resolution today. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. but above all, we have the practical solidarity of our colleagues, in response to euroscepticism and populism and to all those who do not recognise that we are in the european union to ensure progress, our quality of life, the security of our citizens, but also jobs.
mr president, greece's main demand for years has been to be exempted from the emissions trading scheme, and this is because countries whose gdp was below 60% until 2013 have been given this exemption, such as bulgaria and poland. greece has requested this derogation. i therefore tabled amendment no 162 which set 2014 as the base year, when greece too had a gdp below 60%. this would be an arrangement that would relieve the ppp, which pays eur 400 million a year in emission rights, and at the same time allow it to go through to 2030 while continuing to use the lignite that is essential for the operation of the ppp. but there is one thing: my amendment no 162 was not put to the vote because it was considered to be covered by amendment no 89, but it is an amendment that has nothing to do with the amendment i tabled, since my amendment refers to 2014 and the amendment that was voted on refers to 2013. the legislative framework here in the house is responsible for this and i find it unacceptable that the amendment we tabled, amendment no 162, was not put to the vote.
mr president, i voted against the 2016 report on albania because, firstly, i am totally opposed to any prospect of albania joining the european union and, secondly, because the report is not balanced. the report is biased in favour of tirana because it does not mention key issues such as the continuous violation of the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus, the violations by the albanian government, the confiscation of property, the demolition of churches, the persecutions, the threats and, above all, the movement of populations in the region of northern epirus in order to alter the population composition. in addition, tirana and albania are promoting a redemptive policy and cultivating the alleged greater albania concept through the claim of territories belonging to greece. they use the cham people to create problems, the cham people who are war criminals and have been convicted by the courts of greece, the special courts of the doziologists, because they were collaborators of the ss during the german occupation in greece.
mr president, the new european legislation is more necessary than ever, not because terrorism has come to europe to stay, but because terrorism is developing at the expense of the european idea and european citizens and especially the next generations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and it is therefore very important that the european union should take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further complicated by the threat of terrorism. in addition, international jurisdiction, especially for the crime of education, is of great importance. it is important to promote and publicise this european legislation because terrorism does not discriminate between member states and concerns us all.
mr president, the various forms of terrorism in general and islamic terrorism in particular are at present the greatest real threat to the security of the peoples of the countries of the european union. although the responsibility for combating terrorism lies with the states, effective action against it is nevertheless achieved through full cooperation between all the countries of the world and europe in all areas, in particular in the legal, social and prosecutorial fields. but whatever cooperation is achieved between the police and intelligence services of the countries, whatever information is exchanged between them, whatever legal cover is provided for their repressive activities, these are later steps. the first is to give young people the right education so that they are not vulnerable to the propaganda of terrorism, especially islamist propaganda; the european states must eliminate the cases of exclusion and marginalization of social groups that support terrorism; and finally, there must be proper control of the external borders. this task must be entrusted to the security forces and the armed forces of each country ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
madam president, it is absurd that we have more discussions and events in parliament about islamophobia, xenophobia and the human rights of illegal immigrants than about the growing danger and victims of islamic terrorism. the nationalists, exercising their fundamental right to express their views, are the only voices of reason and resistance, but they are systematically accused of being populists. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the political and economic crisis in the middle east. we believe in the traditions of our fathers and demand the establishment of order, security and social peace. some have imposed a rhetoric against christians and in favour of islamists, in the name of multiculturalism, tolerance and respect for human rights. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the west, but must be prepared to take action against the west. it is being fought by all available means at its root, that is, in the islamic countries which produce it, such as turkey, saudi arabia and qatar. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council and the commission on the future of the european union.
the fight against terrorism, madam president, requires a comprehensive approach, one that covers various fields, political, economic, social and educational. first of all, we must prevent and combat radicalisation, which is successful precisely because various muslim countries have a significant influence on their own populations and on the populations of europe itself. secondly, there is a political field that is fuelling the radicalization of muslim populations and that is western interventions in the arab world. another issue to look at is the huge failure of the policies pursued by various countries in the european union to try to integrate the various muslim populations. if they failed, it was precisely because they were socially and economically marginalized. the conclusion is that we need a comprehensive approach to counter terrorism.
madam president, commissioner, in the last month i have visited two aegean islands, chios and samos, and on saturday i will be visiting lesvos. in all these islands there are at least 16,500 refugees and illegal immigrants trapped. there is outrage among the islanders, made even greater by the fact that a successful visa-on-arrival system has been discontinued. this system is called the schengen visa gate and consists of obtaining a visa at the port of call after the ship has landed. this visa can be obtained by tourists such as chinese, russians and other third country nationals and can be taken across the border from turkey, from kusadasi, where ephesus is, and to visit samos. so you stopped that. it was allowed for four years as a pilot programme and has been discontinued by a commission decision. i have put a question to you in writing and i want an answer, if only today, to tell me what will happen. will this exception continue? because it is not possible to ban legal tourists and have thousands of illegals coming to the islands.
the regulation on systematic checks by the states on all those travelling to and from them is moving in the right direction. but before these checks can be carried out, there must be checks and registration of refugees and migrants, both illegal and not, at europe's external borders, so that the infiltration is not allowed or at least efforts are made to reduce the infiltration of terrorists into these states, as has unfortunately already happened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the authorities then pass on the information they have gathered to the authorities in other countries, so that we can deal with terrorism properly and travellers to european countries will not have any problems.
mr president, internal security and public order, such as the fight against terrorism, are the exclusive responsibility of the member states of the union. at the same time, it is clear that the collection of data must respect the constitutional requirements of each country and, of course, ensure the protection of private rights. the exchange of information between member states is of course very useful. it should not be forgotten that the european council has repeatedly stressed the need to improve the exchange of information, particularly in the area of law enforcement, and that there is also provision for a budgetary increase for the european police office. it is clear that the current eu law on the exchange of information needs to be modernised and this debate is taking place in this context, because it is still one of the instruments that preceded the lisbon treaty. the exchange of information is therefore important, and so is the involvement of the european commission and the european union, but only if the conditions relating to the protection of private interests are met.
madam president, i wish you every success in your duties as vice-president of our house. the commission also found that the union industry was not able to compete with the union industry in the union market. the field of machine intelligence offers enormous economic and social development, improving living conditions. despite the undoubted advantages offered by the robotics sector, its future applications may bring about significant changes in the labour market and require a different approach to education, vocational training and social policy. it is therefore necessary for the european union to adopt legal provisions or legislative changes now to take account of the forthcoming applications of these technologies. at the same time, we must be careful that the impending development of robotics does not lead to a high concentration of wealth in the hands of a few.
madam president, this report is obviously a product of compromise, but it does in general allow for the safeguarding of labour rights and access to decent work and pensions. the definition of the use of robotics should neither aim at nor undermine the improvement of the natural human condition. it must be ensured that the existing trends in the economy and the production process will continue to serve the social fabric with updated rules and safety nets. i wish to see more inequalities in the distribution of wealth and i see the replacement of human labour without full replacement of the jobs lost. the lack of pension contributions threatens the future of employment and the sustainability of social welfare and insurance systems. the possibility of taxing the work performed by robots or of charging a fee for the use and maintenance of each robot to finance the support and retraining of unemployed workers whose jobs have been reduced or eliminated in order to maintain social cohesion and prosperity is welcome.
madam president, we have a classic case, a flagrant case of violation of the treaty on european union, because we have discrimination based on nationality in the exercise of the rights of citizens of the union, such as the right to free movement and the right to work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we have an indirect discrimination against cars which do not have german plates. this is a classic case of a breach of the treaty on european union and i am addressing mrs bulc and telling her that it is not the commission's right to decide, whenever it wants, to refer a state to the court of justice of the european union. there is already a decision by the european ombudsman that this right of yours is being checked and checked for maladministration ... (the president interrupts)
mr president, cloud computing is about storing, processing and using data from remote computers accessed via the internet and helps users save time and money. cloud computing gives users almost total flexibility in terms of storage space and the tools they use. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. however, it is recalled that the protection of personal and sensitive data must take precedence over the free movement of data. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. mr president, speaking of the investment and structural funds, commissioner, i think we should explain that cohesion policy has been virtually non-existent since 2014. from a pillar of development, aimed at expressing european solidarity, it has been transformed into another tool in the service of extreme budgetary adjustments and the european union's austerity policies. the structural funds and the investment funds are subject to a framework of strict financial rules. their paralysis has been institutionalized, on the one hand, by the threat of suspension and freezing of aid when a country does not comply with the macroeconomic conditions, and on the other, by the inadequate financial framework allocated to them for the period 2014-2020, reduced by 8,4% in an already low multiannual financial framework. it is not possible, madam commissioner, to tackle the problem of employment and unemployment and to achieve real convergence if this is conditional upon - in order to receive this money - the implementation of austerity policies and policies to deregulate unemployment ... (the president interrupts)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the first is that there is an accounting and not an efficient management of resources. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the financing of the common agricultural policy. for example, in greece, there is a €1.6 billion expenditure for 2016 and you, as the commission, are happy and the government talks about over-spending but businesses, start-ups, educational and research institutions are looking for where the money is. the funds are committed but not directly channelled into the real economy. the second obstacle is the poor performance of the european social fund and the youth employment initiative. if the numbers were jobs, then youth unemployment wouldn't be at 45%. the report by mr van nistelrooij points out the shortcomings in the implementation of the european social fund programmes. the fact is that we need sustainable jobs for young people after their education or apprenticeship and this must be done immediately. the third problem is delays in implementing programmes, delays which lead to inefficiencies in the management of european taxpayers' money, which is a pan-european issue. we must respond with sustainable jobs arising from cohesion fund funds, in cooperation and with co-financing from instruments such as the european fund for strategic investments of the juncker plan. we have to answer with real jobs. this is our mission, and i'm sure you'll work at it.
mrs crețu, the german semi-state company fraport bought 14 regional airports in greece in exchange for a license plate. according to the documents it signed, it was to pay eur 1,2 billion but had already received a 'profit' of eur 520 million, since the thessaloniki and chania airports had been the site of espa projects worth eur 520 million today. the structural funds regulations prohibit the privatisation of esf projects for at least 10 years. moreover, this is also prohibited by article 107 of the treaty on state aid. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to fraport. it is also seeking eur 300 million in loans from the european investment bank, the ebrd and a greek state guarantee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the regions concerned. i want an answer to that. i shall stay until the end of the debate, because what is being done is illegal, because esdp projects cannot be privatised.
the next item is the debate on the report of mr pavel telička, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the strategy for aviation in europe (2016/2062 (ini)) (a8-0021/2017)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the directive. the civil aviation workers, all the airport workers, are literally left in the air, not knowing if they will have jobs and rights. the safety of flights is jeopardized by the cost-benefit ratio. the tourism served by the airports is delivered to interconnected transport and tourist groups. government agencies, like the fire department, are being privatized. the transfer of control of national airspace to private monopolies and the multiplication of the risks threatening the vital sovereign rights of greece in a region such as the aegean sea and at a time when these are directly contested by the turkish leadership, with daily challenges to the borders, air and sea, and the treaty of lausanne that defines them. the people stop the airport handover! a single public airline for the needs of the people, not for monopoly profit!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have taken the floor to ask you to vote in favour of amendment no 2 after paragraph 15 which refers to the cancellation of the concession of 14 profitable regional airports in greece to fraport. this is a typical case of a colonial contract. it is the result of political blackmail as it was put forward as a prerequisite for the signing of the third memorandum. it violates the european union's state aid and competition rules. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport services agreement with ryanair was concluded before the airport services agreement with ams was signed. fraport itself is largely owned by the german state of hesse, so that the agreement constitutes a concession of public property by one member state to another member state. overall, the terms of the contract exempt the company from a number of financial commitments and obligations towards the greek public, employees and local municipal authorities. if we want to get the greek people back on their feet, we will not do so by taking away their public property. i therefore call on you once again to vote in favour of this amendment which calls for the annulment of this colonial type of convention which has been put forward.
the new aviation strategy must aim at strengthening industry and tourism. this means, in particular, measures against monopolies, such as the case of fraport, which was awarded 14 regional airports in greece in lieu of a licence plate, and was even awarded a 'price' since the airports of thessaloniki, chania and skopje are carrying out esf projects worth eur 520 million, which is prohibited by european union regulations. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the ccipb and ryanair on the basis of the 2005 aviation guidelines was concluded on the basis of the 2005 aviation guidelines. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in order to cover the costs of the capital increase and to cover the operating costs of the airport. it is a colonial type concession of greek public property to a german state enterprise, in the framework of memorandum cheques. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the airport operator would have been able to obtain a profit before tax on the basis of the airport services agreement with ryanair. i support the amendment to abolish the concession of 14 regional airports to fraport.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2017. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the debate on the situation of human rights and democracy in nicaragua and the case of francesca ramirez (2017/2563 ((rsp))
mr president, i am in favour of the resolution, which i have signed. the agreement of nicaraguan president daniel ortega with the chinese company hong kong nicaragua canal development to open a canal that will connect the atlantic and pacific oceans has led thousands of citizens to protest. the coordinator of the national council for the defense of the land, the lake and the national sovereignty, francisca ramírez, is leading the movement of nicaraguan citizens who oppose the creation of the above-mentioned canal, since its cost is estimated at 50 billion dollars and its construction is expected to cause damage to the environment and limit the country's sovereign rights, at the same time displacing 30,000 citizens, mainly poor farmers and members of indigenous populations, whom the government did not even consult before making its decision. francisca ramírez has been the target of intimidation, arbitrary detention, and attacks on her and her family members in retaliation for her activism, all by the country's government authorities. i therefore believe that the nicaraguan government must respect the reactions of the country's citizens and stop obstructing the exercise of the right to freedom of expression.
i have received six motions for resolutions to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 16 february 2016.
the next item is the debate on the executions in kuwait and bahrain (2017/2564 ((rsp))
as president, i must point out a problem which has been raised by colleagues from a very wide political spectrum and i think we should focus on this and not turn the justified condemnation of kuwait and bahrain for the executions into a matter of small-party debate.
mr president, the situation of human rights and the rule of law in bahrain and kuwait is particularly worrying. both countries lifted the moratorium on executions in january. bahraini authorities, for the first time since 2008, executed three shia muslims. the information coming to light also mentions torture to extract confessions from the bahraini authorities. in kuwait, seven people were executed on 25 january. these are the first executions carried out in the emirate since 2013. these facts prove that the execution of civilians is increasing throughout the middle east. the death penalty, torture and any form of cruel and inhuman degrading treatment and punishment are prohibited by international and european treaties, they are prohibited everywhere in the world, whether in shia or sunni muslim states. the european union must send a message: the violation of human rights cannot be tolerated.
mr president, attacks against human rights defenders in guatemala are a daily occurrence, and already in 2015 there have been complaints from ngos about nine murders of activists who opposed infrastructure construction projects or the opening of mines and mines. the attacks by the guatemalan government are mainly targeting those who defend the land, especially in areas where indigenous communities reject the plans of multinationals to exploit the wealth of guatemala. moreover, the country's authorities are turning against not only the activists but also the judicial authorities that are tasked with investigating attacks against activists. in the face of the daily violation of human rights, the european union is called upon to condemn the lack of freedom of speech in the country, the repression of the local population and, at the same time, to send a message to the guatemalan government authorities that they must finally stop persecuting human rights defenders.
the debate which is now taking place, mr president, and which is also based on the white paper, is aimed at making the european union more effective in its attack on the people in a context of growing popular discontent. it shows the struggle with its international competitors, the fierce competition within the european union, the territory of disparity between member states and shares of capital, and the need for the european union to gain time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union and its governments will have to make a decision on the future of the european union, and the european union will have to make a decision on the future of the european union. the workers, from their own experience, can conclude that the european union is an association of capital and that the aims it has served all these years are deeply anti-people. the european union is neither changing nor improving. the immediate need and the way out is to strengthen the popular struggle against the european union and the capitalist system, for workers' power, with a commitment to break away from the european union.
mr president, after the old political world of europe has failed, after it has filled europe with millions of poor people, after it has filled europe with armies of unemployed people, after it has made a mess of things, it is now throwing in the towel, abandoning, and not only that, but throwing the burden on the european peoples themselves. now mr juncker has remembered the peoples of europe and is asking for their opinion, the peoples of europe who constantly insist that austerity must be stopped, that there must be a fair distribution of the wealth produced in europe, the peoples of europe who are calling for the cancellation of the debt because europe has become a europe of creditors, a europe where some states are debtors and some other states are supposed creditors, the peoples of europe who are calling for respect for democracy, which is not respected by the troika in greece and other countries. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. so, that's his answer? the people are demanding change in europe.
mr president, on 7 february the european council decided to extend for a further three months the checks at the internal borders of germany, austria, denmark, norway and sweden in order to prevent illegal immigrants from entering these countries. the decision not only effectively abolishes the schengen treaty, but also formalizes, as it were, the injustice and the difference in treatment between the member states of the european union. the five countries mentioned above are in greater danger from illegal immigrants than italy and greece, which are countries with external borders, are countries of entry into the european union and are being flooded with hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of illegal immigrants, not to settle in them, but because they have been pushed to arrive there by the mistaken open border policy applied by all five countries mentioned above. so we cannot accept this policy. when the council takes such decisions on these issues, imagine how it will take decisions on other important issues such as development, defence and security, tackling unemployment and the future of the european union in general.
the european council of 9 and 10 march should seriously address the issue of immigration. at the moment, according to the commission's own figures, only 9,566 refugees have been resettled in greece. it is supposed that by next september 66,400 relocations should have been completed, that is, only one sixth of the relocations have been completed so far. germany had to take in 25,094 people from italy and greece. he's only got 2,442, which is less than 10%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aegean islands are not overcrowded, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the aegean islands are not overcrowded. there are 16,500 refugees and illegal immigrants on lesvos, chios, samos. something has to be done about the congestion in the aegean islands.
mr president, children are the great victims of the refugee crisis. more than 89,000 unaccompanied children arrived in europe in 2015 and 10,000 refugee children have disappeared, according to europol figures. in turkey, there are too many cases of unaccompanied children who are victims of trafficking, abuse and exploitation. it is estimated that in greece, about 40% of the refugees in the country are children. i would like to return, mr avramopoulos, to the question of the decongestion of the aegean islands, because, according to figures, of the 16,500 people who are on the islands, at least 40% are children. i would remind you of your reply to me a few days ago on this subject, when you said that vulnerable groups can now go to mainland greece, and i would ask you to look at this matter immediately because it is very important. it is necessary to enable these people, these unaccompanied children, to go to mainland greece and not be overcrowded on the aegean islands. the 40% reduction in the congestion of the aegean islands can be solved immediately.
mr president, the increase in the disappearance of migrant children within the union shows the degree of decay of western european civilization. at the same time, it reveals the culture and mindset of much of the extremist muslim worldview, where women and children are exploitable commodities. hundreds of pieces of evidence and evidence that the missing children are victims of child labor and organ trafficking. human life produces money and human dignity is bought. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a great power. the only solution is full national control of the external borders, where children will be given appropriate protection and where the various scoundrels and muslim parents who abandon their children will be punished by example.
in writing. one year after a parliamentary question was tabled on the disappearance of an estimated 10,000 refugee children in europe, the situation has not only not changed but seems to be worse than we know. the figures now speak of as many as 30,000 missing children, who so far we have been unable to locate and help reunite with their families. many of them are suspected of being victims of exploitation, especially sexual exploitation, by organised crime networks involved in human trafficking and organ trafficking. it is true that the european police office does not have a special unit dealing with missing children, and coordination between member states in this area is disappointing. the registration of minors by taking their fingerprints, taking into account their age and in any case not on minors under six years of age, is an important measure to avoid new phenomena of child disappearances. in addition, it is essential to have more effective european rules, which force member states to cooperate with each other and with europol, in order to bridge the existing gap in crossborder cooperation. children are the most vulnerable group of migrant populations and it is the duty of civilized europe to protect their future.
in writing. on the occasion of the european day for equal pay on 3 november, mr timmermans said that the commission was working hard to close the pay gap between men and women in the member states of the union. however, so far the union's attitude towards some of its member states, such as greece, has done little to help close the gender pay gap. so in my country, merkel's austerity and the forced fiscal adjustment have driven women's unemployment to the top, with the total gender pay gap at 45.2%. the dismantling of the public sector and the imposition of flexible forms of employment have brought many women to economic despair. inequalities between men and women have negative consequences for societies themselves and because of these inequalities they are unable to create sustainable development and social cohesion.
madam president, i shall now turn to my colleagues in the group of the european people's party. i am glad that we are discussing this point today, because now that the uk is part of the european union, the commission needs to do everything it can to ensure that the british comply with european legislation. i think that is the basic postulate that applies, and the other debates that have been held here between individual british members of parliament have little to do with that basic problem. in short, there is a clear directive on free movement and it is clear that the uk is not fully complying with this directive, that it is partially emptying its contents. it is a pity, commissioner, that we do not have more detailed information, that we do not have more statistics on how many citizens of the european union have been expelled from the united kingdom in recent years, because that would clearly confirm that the current british legislation restricts freedom of movement in the way that the european directives do. i therefore urge the commission, as do my colleagues in the group of the european people's party, to pay particular attention to this problem, because, to put it mildly, the european union is founded on four fundamental freedoms: freedom of movement, freedom of capital, freedom of services and freedom of goods. if we tolerate any of these freedoms being curtailed, we are damaging the principles of the european union, regardless of what brexit itself will be and what post-brexit rights european union citizens in the british isles will have. so please pay attention to this, we are protecting the principles of the european union.
madam president, the matter we are discussing is particularly serious in that there are now problems with the free movement of european union citizens, because of the brexit decision, and this is of course very serious because we have many european union citizens working in britain and we also have many greeks working in the country who are worried about their prospects and the conditions under which they will be able to continue working in the united kingdom. we are of course expecting the process of completing the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union to take two years. it is clear that during this two-year period european union citizens in the united kingdom and, of course, the greeks should continue to enjoy their rights in full. from then on, there must be a prediction of what will happen in the future.
madam president, in 1976 the court of justice of the european communities delivered the landmark defrenne judgment, a decision which established equal pay for men and women at community level. but today, in the court of justice of the european union, the proportion of women is less than 20%. the fact that there are few women in many of the highest courts of the member states of the european union cannot, of course, be an excuse for the member states not to appoint women judges, because they have the right to appoint university professors and therefore university professors or even lawyers. the situation is therefore simple: member states must take the principle of gender equality into account in the appointment process and appoint female judges to the court of justice of the european union.
mr president, the exchange of information on intergovernmental agreements in the energy sector is important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what you are trying to do now, with ex ante approval, is to limit in substance the sovereign powers of the member states. the member states are obliged to comply with community law. they have the right to sign international agreements. only if they are in breach of community law will you, as the commission, have the right to apply to the court of justice of the european union for sanctions. otherwise there would be no notion of referring a member state for infringement of community law. you would have ex ante control over everything and so there would be no process. the member states must therefore retain their sovereign powers and if they violate community law, then refer them to the court of justice. but you cannot, by any stretch of the imagination, take on responsibilities as a commission which you do not have.
mr president, since may 2010 greece has been subject to the catastrophic memorandum which has turned the country into a vast social graveyard, with millions of poor and armies of unemployed. as if that were not enough, the troika continues with business as usual. the commission has already taken action in athens yesterday to reduce pensions by up to 35% and to reduce incomes by lowering the tax-free threshold. instead of recapitalising the social security funds which the troika and the psi have destroyed, they are sending the already impoverished pensioners to the caucasus. instead of creating a public fund for red loans, the troika is hammering the homes of the greeks. instead of investments being made, the troika is planning to sell off public property instead of a billboard. the greek people are no longer tolerating the memoranda and will soon throw the troika out of our country.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. instead of creating a real instrument to help promote european culture and the rich tradition of our nations, you have in fact created another funding mechanism. worse still, the participation of dozens of ngos proves our fears that culture for you is only what is in line with your ideological positions and serves your political interests. you are as indifferent to the distinct, different cultures of our peoples as you are to their concerns that they are in mortal danger. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, the creation of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, the creation of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, the creation of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, the creation of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions, and the creation of a european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. finally, as regards the integration of illegal immigrants, i consider that it is inappropriate to include such a provision in this programme and that it seriously endangers the cultural identity of europeans, of illegal immigrants themselves and of their countries of origin, and constitutes a disguised form of cultural imperialism.
the commission the european union is a community of nations, a europe of nations, a europe of countries, a europe of peoples. i therefore consider it important that 2018 has been declared the year of cultural heritage. the 'creative europe' programme is implemented for the period 2014-2020 and aims to strengthen the european creative sector in order to promote sustainable and inclusive growth within the union. the 'creative europe' programme links culture to creativity and helps the arts and creative industries to adapt to the digital age. but the european union must put more emphasis on countries like greece, where the cultural, innovation and research sectors are affected by the memoranda, are affected by austerity policies and, for that country, funds must be increased in the fields of culture and innovation.
the commission it is surprising, mr president, that in a report on the 'europe for citizens' programme, euroscepticism and immigration are prominently and constantly mentioned. some parts of the exhibition cannot be left unattended. firstly, it is a shameful and undemocratic practice to say that anti-european forces in britain have prevailed, those who question the european vision. the vote for brexit is a condemnation of the union as it is today. it is a question of mutual tolerance, participation and respect when we are promoting a union in which everyone must agree with the wrong policies and where any objections are condemned or expelled without being given the opportunity to develop their arguments. you focus on european integration while at the same time accusing nationalist movements of being totalitarian. the identification of european cultural heritage and the participation of immigrants are promoted, whereas immigrants do not accept the european mentality and culture at first sight. how can they participate in a programme for european citizens when they are not themselves citizens of europe? i urge all those who speak of euroscepticism to change their practices and approach, because these are what are driving the citizens of the member states away from the european construction.
the commission mr president, according to the rhetoric of the treaty on european union, the union is based on two basic principles: first, the principle of representative democracy, whereby the member states are represented in the council and the peoples of the member states are represented in the european parliament, and second, the principle of participatory democracy, which means that decisions are taken by the citizens themselves, and this is done through referendums, as well as through the european legislative initiative. the european union is afraid of referendums, because they are used to condemn its neoliberal policies, to condemn the european union of bureaucracy and banking. the european union has also shown that it does not want to facilitate the exercise of legislative initiative by citizens, as was shown by 'save the water'. the alienation of citizens from the european union is increasing because the union's economic policy is based on austerity and forced fiscal adjustment, which have filled the union with armies of unemployed, of poor people. therefore, such skin-deep actions as this programme cannot cure the legitimacy crisis facing the union, especially when it comes to paternalistic programmes imposed from above by the elites. this is also reflected in the title of the programme, which is 'europe for citizens' rather than 'europe of citizens'.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, in recent years we have seen a growing disillusionment and indifference among european citizens towards the european union and its structures and a growing resentment towards neoliberal policies. the european union, therefore, instead of radically changing its policies in favour of citizens and peoples, instead of realising that its policies have created a multi-speed europe, a europe of the rich and the poor, a europe without solidarity, it continues to pursue the same policies and at the same time finances programmes designed to embellish this reality and to distort history in order to create the illusion of the single european road. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. these are tools of manipulation, but they are not going to stop european citizens, european youth, from fighting against austerity, for a better future and for a better europe.
gue/ngl), in writing. the report on the implementation of the 'europe for citizens' programme for the period 2014-2020' attempts to analyse the results of a programme with a strong symbolic charge. the development of a closer relationship between the european union and european citizens has been a declared objective of all the actors involved and of european policy-makers. but it was never given the proper attention in practice. in particular, in recent years, the effects of the political and economic crisis affecting the whole of europe have intensified the feeling of alienation of citizens and the current of euroscepticism and doubt about a united europe. we are therefore called upon to promote changes towards a more social europe, so that efforts to inform citizens about common values, the purpose of the union and, above all, participation in society have a real basis. the commission has also decided to grant a loan of eur 100000 to the european investment bank (eib) for the financing of the construction of a new nuclear power plant in the region of alghero. in any case, the real issue is not the wrapping but the substance. we need a different europe, with more solidarity both between the member states and within european societies, with redistribution from the haves to the have nots and not the other way around, as is largely the case today.
the commission mr president, the illegal trade in wildlife is estimated to be worth around eur 20 billion and is considered the fourth most lucrative criminal activity in the world. as the illegal trade in wild fauna and flora destroys ecosystems and threatens global biodiversity, the european union had adopted an action plan to combat the illegal trade in wildlife within the union and to strengthen the role of the european union in the global campaign to combat these illegal activities since february 2016. the union action plan to combat wildlife trafficking should contribute to preventing illegal trade, reducing the supply and demand of illegal species and strengthening the implementation of existing rules to combat organised crime.
mr pittella, thank you for what you said. i shall pass them on to the president of parliament, mr tajani, as president. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
mr korwin mikke, i assumed you would have something to say about what mr pittella said. you've been through it. i would like to say that, as regards your request, pursuant to rule 180 (1), requests for the waiver of the immunity of any member of the european parliament are made by a show of hands - not by a roll-call vote.
thank you, mr woolfe. before we go to the vote, i would like to greet mr habib el malki, president of the house of representatives of the kingdom of morocco, and his delegation, who are in the gallery. mr habib el malki and his delegation are on a working visit to the european parliament and they honour us by being present at today's vote. i welcome them warmly.
we shall now proceed to the vote. the first item is the report by laura ferrara, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the request for the waiver of the immunity of marine le pen (2016/2295 ((imm)) (a8-0047/2017). the commission has already submitted a proposal to the council for the postponement of the vote on this matter.
i would like to thank you very much, mr obermayr, for the esteem you have shown the president and his colleagues. i want to assure you that all the votes cast by show of hands have had a very clear result. the amendments tabled by the political group were rejected by an overwhelming majority, and this was reflected in the votes you requested to be taken by roll-call. they were rejected by the same overwhelming majority. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
mrs costa, your clarification will be taken into account. as my colleagues have informed me of mr preda's proposal, we can only vote on 'en bloc' amendments if their content is relevant and compatible. i therefore cannot accept mr preda's proposal.
the time for voting is over.
the commission mr president, i voted against the krasnodębski report because it essentially sets the stage for the member states to take over responsibilities and transfer them to the european commission, in breach of the treaty on european union. the european union, as we know, is based on the principle of conferral, which means that the member states of the union have a presumption of competence and the institutions of the union have only the powers expressly conferred on them by the treaties. therefore, the joint exercise of sovereign powers by member states is only possible where the treaties expressly provide for it and cannot be done through secondary union law, as this would upset the institutional balance and the distribution of powers between member states of the union. this report proposes, in contravention of the treaty, to limit the sovereign powers of the member states to conclude transnational energy contracts and to give the european commission the right to evaluate and approve these transnational contracts in advance, in contravention of the treaty of the european union itself, thus giving the european commission a right of veto.
the commission mr president, the european union's health policy is supposed to focus on giving equal opportunities and access to medicines and at the same time quality health care for all. however, the policies of forced fiscal adjustment imposed on the member states of the union, and in particular on greece, are increasingly affecting the health budgets of the member states, thus threatening the safety of patients, and existing inequalities in access to medicinal care have intensified. in greece, too, there is a serious shortage of medicines and vaccines for children. the union therefore needs to take measures to ensure equal access to health services and to combat existing inequalities, and the shortages of medicines in greece, and in particular in the aegean islands, should be addressed urgently.
mr president, i supported this programme because, as a person involved in regional and local politics, i know very well how important and beneficial it is for towns and cities within the european union to communicate with each other, for children from different schools to go on exchange visits to other towns and cities within another european union country. i feel it's very good when athletes and other interest clubs from different cities work together like this. this is what this programme is about, among other things, which supports the so-called partnership of cities, which is not about creating a common ideology or creating a common european nation here. it's about people from civil society in individual cities at the local level making friends and making friends and meeting people from another city in another european union country and so getting information about their partners, their neighbours in other european union countries in a natural, unforced way. i think that's right, that it's worth supporting, and that it's not an imperative or a bureaucracy.
the commission i voted against the report because it portrays the european union as a bureaucracy and a banking state, as a european union of austerity and violent fiscal adjustment. the citizens of the union have turned their backs on the european union because of the anti-people policies it imposes on them. but instead of changing its economic policy, instead of strengthening social europe, instead of ensuring social justice and the fair distribution of the wealth produced, the european union is trying to deal with its legitimacy crisis by taking the pill with programmes such as 'europe for citizens', programmes which try, through the back door, to legitimize the presence of thousands of illegal immigrants in the european union in order to provide cheap labour for european business groups. moreover, while the 'europe for citizens' programme allegedly refers to historical memory, it does not say a word about the war reparations germany owes to greece as a result of the first and second world wars.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the european parliament is adjourned. this meeting is adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.50 p.m.)
the commission mr president, the cumulative effects of mercury are documented to be harmful to the human body and there are no recognised safety levels. even the indirect release of any quantity into the environment is unacceptable due to its toxicity and long-term duration. it must be replaced by suitable and satisfactory options, investing in alternative production processes. restrictions on trade in products containing mercury are necessary, while third countries with a processing industry or processing mercury-containing products should be assisted by introducing innovative and best practices. the elimination of mercury use and the inactivation of harmful mercury residues are properly accompanied by criteria for traceability, waste recycling, landfill management and remediation of contaminated sites. the member states must do all they can to ensure that ambitious proposals are implemented effectively. i 'll sum it up . there are no safe limits for mercury and action must be accelerated immediately.
the commission mr president, mercury is a threat to human health and the environment, both in the european union and the rest of the world. scientific evidence has undeniably demonstrated the acute toxicity of mercury, an element that cannot be destroyed or disappear. the heavy metal is carried by the wind, resulting in a buildup in the food chain. european scientists estimate that 1.5 to 2 million children in the european union are born each year having been exposed to prohibited levels of methylmercury. also, 200,000 children are exposed annually to levels above the maximum limit set by the world health organization. the european union must solve the mercury problem. it must reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants in germany, which produce over 5 tons of mercury each year. measures should also be taken for dental amalgams, batteries, lamps and waste.
the commission mr president, i would like to congratulate mr cofferati on his report, because it really raises the issues that concern corporate governance today. first of all, as others have said, transparency in the operation and management of companies is necessary, because shareholders should have an idea of what is happening with the managers. we have seen huge salaries being taken by the executives themselves, earning those salaries for themselves, setting targets of sorts that often do not serve the business itself but serve to increase their own salaries, so we now have a serious problem with the golden boys that exist in big companies. in addition, it is important that investors who put their money in have visibility and knowledge. many times they're institutional investors. we have insurance funds that put their money and should invest in businesses that show social and environmental sensitivity.
the commission mr president, all members of a society must have equal obligations and rights, regardless of whether they are men or women. such discrimination is incompatible with the values and principles on which western civilization is built. women have an additional, particularly important role, that of child rearing, and they are the guarantors of the healthy development of our society. that's the role we need to protect. work should not be a barrier to women wanting to have children. the state must support and protect them, as this would be a solution to the chronic problem of low fertility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new member states are able to apply the principle of equal treatment. national health systems must support women throughout pregnancy and beyond, ensuring immediate and free access to health services. but we do not agree with affirmative action policies, because they introduce distortions which create more problems than they would like to solve. during the crisis unemployment rates reached unsustainable levels for both men and women. employment has not yet recovered to the levels it had before the crisis. the number of families dependent on women's work is therefore constantly increasing. we are opposed to any discrimination, positive or negative, between men and women. we are seeking full equality of opportunity, the only real equality that ensures the smooth functioning of society. but can we ensure that these principles and our values are also embraced by those who come to europe uninvited from countries where women are considered inferior and mere objects?
the commission mr president, gender equality remains the greatest challenge of our time. gender gaps have decreased significantly in recent years, but progress varies across member states and inequalities still exist in a number of areas. an extremely high number of women continue to be discriminated against, to lack equal opportunities in education and the labour market, and to be excluded from positions of leadership and decision-making. according to eurostat, the current average of women on the boards of the largest listed companies in europe is just 23.9%. moreover, despite the fact that 60% of university graduates are women, these women still receive 16% less pay per hour than men. in addition, the crisis and the memoranda have mainly harmed women. finally, the fight against violence against women remains another major challenge for the union. it is estimated that one in three women in the european union has been physically or sexually abused since the age of 15. we must take immediate action, mr president.
the commission mr president, the potential and opportunities offered by big data can only be fully exploited by citizens, companies, governments and institutions if citizens' trust in these technologies is guaranteed through strict respect for fundamental rights and legal certainty for all actors involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see that companies have consumer data and they use it for speculation. some companies create a consumer profile, a borrower profile, an insured profile, an employee profile. transparency, objectivity and accountability, as well as control of personal data, are core values from which specific rights and obligations derive. the protection of personal data is a fundamental right and any processing of personal data is prohibited... )
the commission mr president, the rapid development of communications technology and the widespread use of electronic devices enable various bodies to collect and process personal data without the consent of the persons concerned. and it's only recently that the cia's intelligence gathering methods have been revealed, via a leak from wikileaks. no one has the right to invade the privacy of another person and collect information which he can use against him, either to blackmail him, to use violence against him or, even worse, to give it to various multinational companies, thus contributing to the establishment of monopolies. this is an unacceptable phenomenon. the european union must address this and the rights of the citizens of the countries of europe must be protected.
the commission mr president, despite the fact that rabbits constitute the second largest population of farmed animals in the european union and over 340 million rabbits are slaughtered each year, the european union does not yet have specific legislation to establish rules for the protection of rabbits. at present, in several member states of the union, rabbits are kept in appalling conditions on breeding and fattening farms, which is completely contrary to animal welfare requirements. as early as 2005, degraded living conditions and high mortality and morbidity rates amongst farmed rabbits in europe have been found in several rabbit farms. it is therefore in the interests of rabbit farmers and the industry as a whole, but also in the interests of consumers, that rabbit farming, in accordance with the european production model, complies with the highest standards of food safety, animal health and welfare and respect for the environment.
the commission mr president, it has already been mentioned that rabbits are the second largest population of farmed animals in the european union, yet there is no legislation to lay down any rules for their protection. in almost all european countries, rabbits are kept in poor conditions, and this, together with the fact that they are affected by various diseases and that antibiotics are used to treat these diseases, endangers the health of consumers. the european union must therefore support the rapporteur's recommendation, which rightly denounces the fact that rabbits are kept in cages - this is unacceptable - and must be kept in a protected environment, that is to say, in the conditions of a protected park. this will mean that these animals will not suffer and that the health of consumers will not be endangered.
the commission mr president, since the european union is the largest equine market in the world and since equidae are the most transported animals in europe in proportion to their population, it is necessary for the union to adopt rules to protect them. in addition, the world organisation for animal health already issued guidelines on equidae in may 2016. it is therefore necessary to establish animal welfare reference centres with the aim of improving compliance rates and the consistent enforcement of legislation and the dissemination of information and best practices on animal welfare, and in particular equidae. in addition, equine owners should have a minimum level of knowledge of equine husbandry, while ownership implies personal responsibility for the level of health and welfare of the animals in their care.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the negotiations currently under way between the greek government and the lenders on the second evaluation of the greek programme demonstrate the inability of the european institutions to guarantee the fundamental human rights on which the union is supposed to be founded in accordance with article 2 of the treaty and the charter of fundamental rights. the european institutions are almost unanimous in observing the international monetary fund demanding the continuation of the demolition of collective bargaining, the further weakening of the right to strike and the complete 'liberalisation' of dismissals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the greek economy, including the introduction of a new system of taxation, the introduction of a new system of taxation of capital and the introduction of a new system of taxation of capital. greece needs serious development planning and bold debt relief to get back on its feet.
the commission the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the middle east. on the political level, erdogan as the new sultan says that turkey is not bound by the treaty of lausanne and wants to abolish it. other turkish officials question the greek status of 18 aegean islands, while turkish foreign minister çavuşoğlu says that the imias are supposedly turkish. on a military level, turkey violates greek airspace and territorial waters on a daily basis. in addition, turkish naval vessels conducted cannon fire within greek territorial waters in pharmakonis. for the last month and a half i have been at the side of the people of lesvos, chios and samos and on saturday i will be in kalymnos with my compatriots to send the message to erdogan and his entourage that the greek people are not afraid of his threats and once again say to him: "molon lavé".
the commission's proposal in question, mr president, shows that it goes beyond its legislative powers of execution and fails to understand that its power as a legislator is derived from and reflects the needs of the citizens. the proposal does not adopt measures to combat terrorism and illegal trade; it merely punishes and discourages law-abiding citizens. the illegal arms trade is not due to the flexibility of the previous directive. forward-looking, museum, shooting, deactivated, exhibit and semi-automatic weapons are not treated with the logic of threat and possible involvement in illegal activities. the increase in bureaucracy, the clustering of rules and the imposition of unworkable restrictions lead to a polarisation of reason and an impulse to acquire weapons from third party, non-legal sources. some technical specifications, such as the magazine capacity for semiautomatic centerfire weapons, are tradespecific. i'm commenting as a former greek special forces officer and weapons user. the report must be voted against and left to the legislative jurisdiction of the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, and i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. the directive effectively punishes those who are lawful gun owners and at the same time infringes the sovereign rights of the member states which are the only ones with exclusive competence in matters of national security and public order. the member states, respecting their national traditions and the rights of the peoples of europe, may determine the conditions for the lawful possession of weapons in the light of the need to maintain public order and peaceful social coexistence. at the same time, the principle of proportionality must be applied, the rights of hunters, members of shooting clubs, collectors and museums, as well as legal gun owners, must not be restricted. the rights of peoples to collective self-defence, especially in border areas, should not be limited to contributing to the national defence of their country.
mr president, you are about to vote on an absurd report which has nothing to do with reality, which will in no way deal with the problem of terrorism, which will only serve the outlaws and criminals, which will create serious problems for millions of legitimate gun owners throughout europe. in the context of terrorism and crime, you should know that terrorist attacks do not use legal weapons. assault rifles, like the kalashnikov, used in the paris attacks, are already illegal throughout europe. that didn't stop the terrorists from supplying them. in no country in the world has crime decreased after gun bans. on the contrary, many have increased. i therefore call on the european parliament to vote on the ban on guns and the ban on knives at the same time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament.
mr president, changes to the even worse of the anti-people directives of the 2008 directive and the corresponding others on waste are being pushed forward on the basis of the european union's strategy for the so-called circular economy. in greece our people are paying heavy consequences for the environment, for their health and for their pockets from the incorporation of the guidelines of the above directive. i am referring to the failure to build and operate adequate landfills in time, which has resulted in the perpetuation of deadlocks - for example in the attica river landfill, in uncontrolled landfills, in the major problems in the peloponnese and zakynthos or in other areas. the excessive, unattainable targets for our country for 2020 are exploited by capital to design expensive facilities that are handed over to business groups. in the context of the circular economy, cement industry groups such as lafarge in the volga start and are licensed as waste incineration plants. the aim of the binding provisions of the european union, under the pretext of greater recycling, is to make the greatest profits for the industry's monopolies and to supply other industries with cheap alternatives, they say! raw materials and fuels at the expense of the environment and the health of the masses. the only solution in the interest of the people is to demand, through their struggle, in conflict with the monopolies and their power, a single public state body, without any private interference at all levels, complete exemption of the people from kickbacks and fees, policies to reduce waste production in recycling with sorting at source and composting.
mr president, i come from a country which has a long way to go in waste management. with the reports we are discussing today we are changing not just the targets for recycling, for sanitary burial, but the philosophy by which we operate. from the linear 'production-consumption-disposal' model, we are moving to a new model of sustainable development with as little waste as possible. the aim is to close the loop, giving priority to reuse and recycling. with the right incentives, the circular economy model can contribute to job creation. in greece in particular, it is an opportunity to modernise the way we manage waste, improving the environment and creating conditions for growth. finally, i would like to thank mrs bonafè very much for the very good work she has done and for accepting my proposal to introduce mandatory targets for the collection and recycling of oils.
mr president, the transition to a more circular economy offers great opportunities for europe and its citizens. the european society consumes renewable resources 50% faster than it can replace them, and the european union imports six times more raw materials and natural resources than it exports. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. this transition is also of particular economic importance, as it will bring significant benefits and enhance competitiveness. it has environmental benefits and significant energy savings. local jobs are being created. the total benefits will amount to eur 1.8 trillion. the european union will be able to take on the challenge of creating a new and more competitive european economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its implementation in the member states.
mr president, the circular economy measures we have adopted today send a clear message to the citizens of our countries that the linear economy is passing and the circular economy is coming. yes, we can indeed have the same level of prosperity using just 10% of resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, the circular economy is a commonplace in finland but almost unknown in greece, and it is essential to have direct access to know-how and good practice. in fact, 49% of bread ends up in the garbage, valuable materials are buried in landfills and only one third of the waste is recycled in the european union. what do we do about it ? we need investment in the lagging member states, with a clear focus on the circular economy, which will bring profits and above all jobs. for example, there is a lack of recyclable packaging materials on the european market. we need above all citizens to join us, to support the circular economy with responsibility and sensitivity, with the absolute sense that the planet does not belong to us.
madam president, i think that the debate has led to the conclusion that the gap in funding which is now being created by the policy of the united states should be filled by the european union, by the member states, and by europe itself, which must find ways of finding the necessary resources, because it is clear that european aid is needed in the third world, that there is a need to inform citizens in those areas, that there is a need to educate them on issues relating to sexual health, and that there is a need for very specific interventions. so instead of spending a lot of time criticizing the policy of the united states, we should rather look for ways in which europe can really fill this gap, and i think that is where we should all go together.
madam president, the serious problem of abortion, which has been brought to light by the recent decision of the united states government not to fund ngos which defend abortion, is an issue which cannot be solved either by political or economic decisions. there is no question that a woman has the right to decide for herself whether to terminate her pregnancy or not. but there is no doubt that by abortion a crime is committed, a murder of an innocent and defenseless creature. so do you realize what a terrible psychological dilemma a woman is faced with when she is asked whether or not to terminate her pregnancy? can you imagine the effect, not so much physical as primarily psychological, that any decision she makes will have on the woman? so if we want to address this problem, if we want to support the family, we need to educate our girls properly and educate young women around the world so that if they ever have to face this dilemma that i mentioned earlier, they can face it in a serious way.
madam president, the european union, as an important actor on the international political scene, must cooperate with the un on the protection of human rights in all regions of the world, setting certain priorities, of course. these priorities must start with the protection of citizens' rights in the member states, be extended to the acceding countries and then extended to other countries of the world. a basic human right is the right to housing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because greek citizens cannot afford to pay back their mortgages, the banks take them and give them to foreign companies. these companies buy them cheaply, take the houses from the greeks and give them to international ngos, who intend to install illegal immigrants in them. i would also point out that the european union must be careful in its cooperation with international ngos, especially those concerned with human rights, because they are engaged in illegal activities. they have been proven to be profiteering by working with smugglers of illegal migrants from turkey to greece.
madam president, commissioner, mr stylianides, i have not heard you say anything about turkey, about the violation of the fundamental rights of the turkish people, about the oppression of the kurdish people, about the censorship imposed by erdogan, about the fact that thousands of dissidents are now in prison; a turkey which has committed ethnic cleansing in cyprus, which now illegally occupies 37% of the cypriot territory; a turkey which does not allow cypriot citizens to enjoy the property they occupy; a turkey which also does not allow the greek islanders of the canary islands to enjoy their rights as citizens of the canary islands, to which the turkish islands belong. these are the dominant rights of human rights violation.
mr president, under union law there is a set of rules to ensure that food and feed are safe and healthy and that activities which could have an impact on the safety of the food chain or the protection of consumers' interests in relation to food are carried out in accordance with specific requirements. we have raised the issue of consumer food safety many times by opposing the introduction of genetically modified products into the european market by those who are trying to do so with ceta or ttip. i have also personally expressed my support for the clear and distinctive labelling of all products so that the consumer can know what is on his plate. it is not possible to limit the consumption of traditional foods that have fed our societies for centuries, purportedly for food safety reasons, and at the same time not to take any protection for the consumption of controversial products of biochemical innovation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality standards of foodstuffs placed on the market are strictly enforced.
mr president, the panama papers and luxleaks revelations have shown that the member states of the european union urgently need to combat tax evasion, tax avoidance, tax dumping and aggressive tax planning. the commission estimates that tax evasion and avoidance costs the union eur 1 trillion per year, while the oecd estimates that the loss of revenue worldwide amounts to between 4 and 10% of total income tax revenues, equivalent to between eur 75 and 180 billion per year. it is time to create a fair tax system without grey areas and tax ruling practices at european level. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the member states are able to take account of the fact that the european union is a global economy, and that the european union is a global economy. they should also stop using the practice of in-house transactions, thus avoiding tax and depriving the state budgets of huge tax revenues.
the union's budget, mr president, offers, through its financial instruments and mechanisms, solutions and catalytic effects to the challenges, problems and difficulties facing the citizens and states of europe. the management and allocation of funds demonstrate what more and more european citizens are embracing: the economic crisis is primarily political and is due to the absence of politicians capable of making the right decisions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration and the increase in terrorism, on the one hand because of the wrong allocation of funds and on the other because of the mismanagement of funds. the political elite is trying to manipulate public opinion with guilt and fear syndromes. but the blood-stained terror attacks and the party of squandering millions enjoyed by friends and relatives of the ruling class, are imprinted on the minds and consciences of the citizens. the budget is about money. to make money you need talent, but to spend it you need culture. the multicultural ethno-national culture that is being promoted is wrong. soon national, patriotic and popular culture will take its place.
madam president, the amounts in the budget of the european union are not sufficient and if we compare them with the amounts available from the united states budget, with which the european union is in competition, the difference will be clear: 20% of the us gdp is the federal budget, 1% of the european union's gdp is the budget of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we cannot tackle youth unemployment in this way, at the same time as mr draghi is allocating 2.3 trillion euros for the famous quantitative easing. the same applies to development, cohesion policies and social europe. at the same time, there is not enough money to support the refugee crisis, especially for aid to greece, where, although the famous ngos have received a lot of money, they are still partying, and this needs to be controlled, commissioner, which is why i have also asked for olaf's intervention in this matter.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the world community is facing the greatest humanitarian crisis since 1945. more than 20 million people in yemen, somalia, south sudan and nigeria suffer from hunger. yemen is the most affected, with two-thirds of its population in need of aid and more than 7 million people facing the specter of famine. in south sudan, which has been torn apart by three years of civil war, the situation is worse than ever. more than a million children are estimated to be severely malnourished, and 270 thousand of these children face immediate danger of death. at the same time, in somalia, 185 thousand children are on the verge of starvation due to drought. the number is expected to rise to 270,000 in a few months. the same situation exists in nigeria, where 2.6 million people have been displaced and more than 200,000 killed in the northeast of the country because of the activities of the islamist group boko haram. the international community must act immediately and decisively to prevent famine in these countries, and the european union must take the lead in this.
madam president, the 400-790 mhz band is now widely used for digital television broadcasting and for wireless microphones. in europe, there is a significant increase in demand for wireless broadband services, mainly due to the use of video content on mobile devices. increasing mobile data traffic is putting pressure on the capacity of existing networks and the demand for additional spectrum. this proposal provides for the provision of more spectrum for broadband services in the 700 mhz band. at the same time, it aims to safeguard the european audiovisual model, which offers free public broadcasting and requires sustainable spectrum resources in the sub-700 mhz band. however, the liberalisation of the 700 mhz spectrum requires technological changes. consumers will have to change their home equipment, broadcasters will have to modify their infrastructure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transition to the single market is not delayed.
mr president, in the run-up to the 60th anniversary of the european union, today's debate by its leaders, beyond the usual mockery, signifies one thing: the people should expect worse. the union is not and cannot be of the peoples. anyone who claims that is cheating. it is capitalist, with convergence in exploitation, poverty, militarization, repression, wars, redrawing of borders, refugees; but also a deviation with an asymmetry, internal rivalries, fugitive tendencies, which is unpleasant for the system, proving that it is not a permanent formation. whether it is a single-deep or multi-speed, with the states running towards the narrow core, a new anti-people barbarism is imminent. in greece, the prime minister of the syriza-anel government, preparing a fourth memorandum, calls for new sacrifices to put greek capital and not the people in the front line. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must be a force for development, for the benefit of the people, and break free from the shackles of the european union and capitalist barbarism.
mr president, the leaders of the european union are being invited to rome on 25 march to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the eec. they are being called upon to face a crisis of legitimacy for the european union itself, which, instead of strengthening european solidarity, has led to the economic divergence between the european north and the european south. it has led to a division between allegedly creditor and allegedly debtor member states of the union. the europe of states and peoples, the europe of the homelands, has thus become a european union of creditors, a union in which states have lost their equivalence, a union in which the so-called debtor states have become modern colonies. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. but the greek people are not going to accept the transformation of greece into a european colony, and that is on 25 march, the national anniversary of the greek revolution of 1821.
the commission the debate on the white paper, mr president, is an admission of the complete failure of the european union's leadership to deal with the serious issues of concern to the european citizen. who would have thought, 60 years after the creation of the european union, that europe would have been divided, that instead of having independent and equal national states there would be a german-dominated europe? who would have thought that a new two- and multi-speed europe would be imposed and that european citizens would be divided into first and second-class citizens? who would have thought that all the countries of europe, and especially greece and italy, would have been overrun by millions of illegal immigrants who threaten their very existence? finally, who would have expected that, instead of the much-publicized solidarity, the greek people would suffer for 7 consecutive years and who knows for how many more in the service of german policy? you have turned the european union into a huge titanic and in a few days you are going to celebrate on it, ignoring the shipwreck that is coming with mathematical precision.
in writing. the most pressing problem facing the european union is the impoverishment of a large part of the citizens of its member states, in some cases more violent and in others more slow but nevertheless noticeable. many of those affected by these developments blame the fall of the barriers between nation states and seek a solution in a return to the past, thus turning to reactionary political choices and nationalist political forces. the union can reduce euroscepticism and euro-phobia only if and to the extent that it strengthens its social persona, with redistributive policies from the haves to the have-nots and not the other way around, as is largely the case today. to this end, the union budget must be increased dramatically and actions for sustainable development and fairly paid employment financed from it on a much larger scale than is currently the case. if the complacency and inaction of the various european leaders continue, then in the medium term the european structure is in danger of collapsing, with dramatic consequences for all european societies.
the commission mr president, in a few days it will be one year since the terrorist attacks in brussels and a lot has changed since then. security measures have improved considerably, their numbers have increased, people have learned to live with the threat and accept the presence of police and military forces in the city as necessary. despite the economic impact of the terrorist attacks and the changes they have brought to their daily lives, the inhabitants of brussels feel a sense of security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and this comes from the possible action of individual terrorists, who, precisely because they are not yet suspects, exploit the fact, have the initiative of the movements and in their favour the advantage of surprise. finally, i will not stop repeating that if we want to prevent the entry of terrorists from the middle east, the control must be carried out by the security forces.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. one year after the bloody terrorist attacks in brussels and in the shadow of the growing terrorist threat in europe, security is one of the main concerns of european citizens. given the cross-border nature of modern terrorism, the phenomenon is not tackled in isolation but only through good cooperation between member states and between the eu and its international partners and neighbouring countries. progress under the renewed european security strategy has been significant: tightening up the rules against terrorist financing, setting up the european border guard to better guard our external borders, strengthening the european security services (europol, eurojust) and, following intensive negotiations, establishing the european passenger name record (eu-pnr) database. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not a mere mere political entity, but a political entity, a political entity, a political entity. cyberterrorism remains unchecked because we still lack a legislative framework to ensure improved interoperability of databases at european level, and we need additional measures to prevent radicalisation and recruitment of citizens by terrorist organisations. the construction of an open and secure europe is what is needed and must be achieved as soon as possible by all of us working together.
the commission madam president, we have often referred to the international trade in minerals from unstable regions of the world and the exploitation of the resources of developing countries by european companies. unfortunately, despite our discussions here, there is no substantive change, because the economic benefit of these activities is too great, so great that some people find ways to legalize the illegality in favor of the companies operating in their countries. mining and refining facilities are an important point in global mineral supply chains and are the last stage at which the verification of information on the origin of minerals and the monitoring chain can be effectively ensured. after this stage of change it is often considered impossible to trace the origin of the minerals. however, this does not guarantee to anyone that a mineral of origin other than the actual one can be declared in order to comply with the conditions set by self-certification. it is well known that all labour and human rights are violated in the mining industry. the only solution is a complete ban on imports from war zones controlled by paramilitary groups who use the profits from mining and trade to continue their criminal activities. we must ban european companies from operating in these areas. as for self-certification, we all know very well that it is not going to work. in my view, self-certification would be a concession from the european union to these companies in the name of competitiveness vis-à-vis third countries.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. isis has made huge amounts of money from the sale of oil, so we need to enact legislation that covers all natural resources and not just the four mines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. in addition, the legislative proposal must concern all the companies involved and all the chains of companies involved. at the same time, conditions for mining must be set. for many years the union has turned a blind eye to the violation of human and labour rights and the problems faced by people working in the mines. many of them are young children. there is no safety for these workers, so the european parliament must act immediately and decisively.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an important subject, which obviously elicits some strongly-held views. i have listened carefully and i will report fully to first vice-president timmermans and colleagues. i personally can understand that some people might have a philosophical objection to public funding of any sort for the political process. but it exists, albeit in different forms in most member states, perhaps because the alternatives for funding the political system – relying on donations from individuals, from business or from interest groups – can also have disadvantages. so i do not think any of us should be surprised if a similar system exists at the european level. when it comes to funding from the eu budget, i would just observe that the existing legislation already includes safeguards regarding the respect by parties of fundamental values. as i said, when we talk about fundamental values, it is respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, and respect for human rights. at the same time, as i said at the outset, the commission is a strong supporter of having vibrant and dynamic political parties at the european level and is very ready to engage with you and with the council to monitor how the 2014 regulation is working in practice in its first months of operation. we stand ready to engage constructively in such an interinstitutional process that can look at the issues in depth and could help pave the way for the formal reviews – which, as a number of people have noted, are slated for 2018 – and for drawing any necessary conclusions together about possible future developments.
in writing. political parties at european level, and their respective institutions, should contribute to informing the citizens of the union in order to make them aware of the political, economic, social and cultural dimensions of the cooperation of european states within the eu. they should also help to increase the participation of citizens in the european elections and to develop a dialogue on the major issues affecting european societies, with particular emphasis on employment, social europe and the fair distribution of the wealth produced. in addition, the funding received by political parties at european level and their foundations must be transparent and not subject to misuse or illegal exploitation. the regulation on the financing of political parties at european level must be based on a specific legal, financial and regulatory framework, increase the efficiency of funding, serve transparency and good administration. any illegal financing and other illegal support of political parties at european level must lead to the cessation of further funding and to severe criminal and other sanctions against those responsible.
the commission mr president, the report calls for a further deepening of the common security and defence policy, which is a departure from the general objectives of the treaty provisions and involves a dialectical interpretation. the european parliament, with its underground political ambitions, has no political or moral legitimacy to change the treaty at will. the treaty may be revised, as laid down by the constitutional order of the member states, only by ratification by the national parliaments or by means of referenda. but if it is put to the people's vote, the decision for more europe and less country and nation will be voted down, as the european constitution was voted down in the corresponding referendums. it would be wrong to equate or attempt to further unify national needs and challenges. there is no room for further compromises on national priorities. no member state will deploy its military as a disposable pawn on the global geopolitical chessboard. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the peace process. the proposed nominal, constitutional, legal and institutional implications will not bow to those who defiantly raise redemptive claims. for example: the country of skopje, which steals the history of greece and talks about macedonian identity, nation and language. however much you may seek to limit national sovereignty to member states, their territorial integrity and national independence is their sole responsibility and is secured sovereignly and through alliances between states that have common interests and aspirations.
the report on the common european security and defence policy which we are discussing today, mr president, contains some positive elements at the phrasing level. such an element is the call for collective financing by the member states of the union of the expenditure arising from defence operations of a member state which is the victim of an armed attack on its territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the turkish air force almost daily violates greek airspace and flies over greek islands, forcing the greek air force to spend large amounts on fuel and spare parts for flights to intercept the air invaders. this is happening at a time when the greek budget is being dramatically burdened by the service of an exorbitant public debt and the greek people are suffering the heavy consequences of austerity policies. in fact, greece's budgetary position has reached the levels of the last seven years and the three memoranda in large part because of the excessive armaments to counter the aggression of turkey, a country with seven times the population and four times the economic size. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, 60 years after the treaty of rome we must move towards greater political integration not only for those who want to but also for those who can, because i am very much afraid that those who can will continue to be reduced. we need solidarity in the budget, in the refugee, in the defence. the integration of defence and security policy will enable us to do more with less. it is inconceivable that countries like greece, which is in a difficult economic situation, should devote a significant proportion of their gdp to this sector, while at the same time richer countries should have much lower expenditure. the european union must not allow itself to be overwhelmed by the tragedy of the war in bosnia. finally, particularly after the election of mr trump in the united states, it is necessary to work together so that the european union can have structures which will enable it to act with flexibility and autonomy beyond the euro-atlantic alliance.
mr president, it cannot be hidden from the european union and its governments that the common denominator of all five reactionary scenarios for the future of the european union is the question of defence and security. it is even being promoted as the preferred field for any looser or more intensified cooperation between member states. the announcements, the meetings, the reports of the european parliament, such as this one, are all about the european union strengthening its militarization with a global strategy, a white paper on defence, a european defence union, a euro-army. in addition to nato and on its own, the european union is seeking to regain ground against the military superiority of the united states, china and russia. the international capitalist arms race, in which the greek government is particularly active, shows that the clouds of war are thickening with a contest over the control of the energy sources of their transport routes. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish government has not yet taken action to prevent the turkish government from being involved in the conflict in the aegean sea. in the face of all these and all these, the peoples must be organized and prepared to be on the alert.
mr president, we have heard a lot of big words and fat words about the so-called common defence and security policy. what we have today in relation to greece is the aggression of turkey, which violates airspace, violates territorial waters; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. we have doubts about the greekness of the imyans. what has the european union done in response to turkey's aggression? a few tepid announcements. otherwise, she washes her hands. i believe that all this effort for common defence and security is essentially financing the military-industrial establishment in the european union, boosting the profitability of the military-industrial industries, militarizing the european union and opening up an aggressive policy of the european union towards the developing world.
the commission madam president, the volume of glaciers in the arctic ocean and its neighbouring seas has been decreasing rapidly since 1984, and the lowest sea ice extent was recorded in the arctic and antarctic in january. the increasing concentration of carbon dioxide over the last 50 years has increased the surface temperature in the arctic by 2 degrees, and, while the arctic is sounding the alarm, international competition for access to the area and the exploitation of its natural resources is increasing. the european union is stepping up its efforts to join the arctic council, aiming to increase its influence in a region that is said to have vast untapped oil and gas reserves. it is estimated that up to 25 percent of the world's natural gas and oil reserves may be found in the arctic. the european union's arctic strategy should focus primarily on protecting and preserving the region and promoting sustainable uses of its resources.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. madam president, montenegro remains the champion of the western balkans on the road to european union, 26 chapters out of 35 have been closed, of which 2 have been temporarily closed. i would like to congratulate the government on the relatively good conduct of the elections, as confirmed by the osce observers. the socialist group welcomes the efforts made by the country over the years to bring the negotiations to a successful conclusion. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area and the establishment of a european research area. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the united nations charter, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, the international criminal court, and the international criminal court. we also expect action to be taken to tackle tax evasion, high social inequalities, longterm unemployment and poverty, taking advantage of the recent opening of chapter 19. we are also concerned about the lack of transparency in the european parliament's decisionmaking process. i would also like to point out that this report comes at a very critical time for the country. on the day of the elections it seems that there was an attempt to assassinate former prime minister mr djukanovic and overthrow the legally elected government. thankfully, they failed. we expect the outcome of the investigations by the middle of next month and call on the european commission and the high representative to follow developments closely. i would also like to call on the member states and third countries to cooperate with the montenegrin authorities in order to bring the matter to a full and transparent conclusion. in this context we must thank serbia for its constructive role. the opposition should also recognise the result of the elections and return to parliament, avoiding actions that are boosting the political climate and dividing society.
the commission madam president, we welcome the negotiations between montenegro and the european union to bring about the accession of montenegro to the union. greece supports montenegro's european perspective and has signed a cooperation agreement to provide expertise on european union issues as early as 2011. we welcome the steady progress of the accession negotiations with montenegro, but corruption remains a serious problem, particularly in the areas of public procurement, public health, education, land use planning, privatisation and construction. the eu is also committed to the fight against corruption, and we call on montenegro to make the fight against corruption one of its priorities. finally, it should be noted that the european path of montenegro must also include the resolution of problems that this country has with its neighbouring countries, and this resolution of problems must be constructive and in a spirit of good neighbourliness.
the commission madam president, as the report says, citizens must be informed, among other things, by the media, of the activities of their elected representatives in the national parliaments and the european parliament. this is particularly true in greece, where the state media and the majority of the private media have been systematically silencing me for two and a half years as a member of the european parliament, a member of the ecr, the third largest political group in the european parliament. even today, a few hours ago, the state television channel ert1, using the european parliament's studio and television equipment here in strasbourg, just outside this chamber, once again arbitrarily excluded me from its special programme on the activities of the european parliament. what measures do you intend to take, madam president, as a member of the european parliament and yourself, commissioner, to ensure the free flow of ideas, fairness, impartiality and pluralism in the greek media, at a time when many of them, madam president, use the equipment of the european parliament here in strasbourg and several of the journalists from these media visit strasbourg at the expense of the ... )
the commission madam president, the use of fisheries data is essential for the evaluation of union policies, as it helps fisheries management and financial corrective measures in favour of areas dependent on fisheries and aquaculture. at a time when the primary sector in the european union is being tested, the union must take measures to rebuild and strengthen it. the coastal and island regions in particular are facing significant problems due to the economic recession, resulting in a decline in population and the flight of residents. in countries like greece, which is hit by austerity and memoranda, fishermen are experiencing the effects of the agricultural memorandum, seeing their income decline dramatically. the european union must help to promote employment in these areas and increase the financing of the fishing fleet. in particular, it must take measures to support greek fishermen.
the commission madam president, i support the resolution, which i have also co-signed. pastor evan mawarire was arrested by zimbabwean police while in court for what he says was raising the zimbabwean flag without permission. this is a criminal offence because the symbol was used by anti-government protesters in their demonstrations against the president of zimbabwe. we therefore condemn the arrest of mawarire, as well as the journalists and activists who have also been arrested. zimbabwe must undergo profound democratic reforms, guarantee freedom of thought, expression and the media, guarantee equality, strengthen the rule of law and respect for human rights, and of course stop violence against women and take measures to tackle the malnutrition that is plaguing the country.
the commission mr president, it is a criminal act when a country invades the territory of another country with its armed forces, commits expulsions, destroys religious places of worship, confiscates property and violates every concept of human rights. i am referring to turkey, which occupied one third of the territory of the republic of cyprus in 1974 and continues to commit crimes against a member state of the union without being disturbed, without recognising its existence. the european union considers the peaceful annexation of crimea to be an unjustified case of illegal invasion and accuses, sanctions and condemnation policies against russia. in turkey, on the other hand, he is giving away billions, promising accession and tolerating erdogan's dictatorial behaviour. this is hypocrisy and shows that the union is not concerned about its citizens and that it puts its geopolitical and geostrategic interests above human dignity and justice. finally, i would point out that it is unacceptable in reports from the european parliament to ask the council to put pressure on the international court of justice. the separation of powers is constitutionally guaranteed and any attempt to emancipate the judiciary is tantamount to stalin-style democracies.
mr president, i want to join my colleagues in making a clear statement about how the fight against drugs in the philippines is being conducted outside the law, outside the law. as a person who deals with the issue of the death penalty in the world, i am very displeased and concerned to see the number of executions increasing worldwide, and therefore i also want to condemn the decision of the philippine parliament, the house of representatives, which has already spoken in favour of reintroducing the death penalty. i consider this decision a big mistake by the philippine parliament, i consider it a bad decision, a step backwards, to put this inhuman, cruel punishment back into practice. unfortunately, it fits in with the president's bad criminal justice policy. the european union is fighting against the death penalty everywhere in the world, and we should therefore condemn this decision of the parliament and clearly call on the philippine parliament to reconsider its decision.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but of course the prosecution must respect the rule of law and the principle of proportionality. what we are seeing in the philippines is that the scourge of the drug epidemic is being used as an alibi to settle scores of the philippine leadership against its political opponents, and that is the key element we are discussing today. another issue, which i have not heard anything about, is what will happen to labour rights in the philippines, where there are thousands of children working, there is a lack of respect for labour rights, and all this is done in order for the various multinationals to profit from the exploitation of the filipino people.
the commission i am not going to go into the details of the report. the european commission's ambiguity in relation to the protection of human rights in the european union is obvious. in greece, the troika and the memoranda have led to 3,885,000 greeks living below the poverty line, while the armies of unemployed are a disgrace to the so-called european social model. democracy, the rule of law and human rights are being violated in greece, as i have repeatedly stated. the failed formula of the memorandum, which has been applied in greece for seven years, has led to 40% of the population living below the poverty line, and has filled the country with armies of unemployed, numbering up to 1.5 million. as if that were not enough, the troika continues with 'business as usual', with the greek government having lost the ball at the negotiating level, having sounded the alarm for a spanish retreat, resulting in new harsh measures that will bring about the disintegration of the greek economy. this situation must be brought to an end. the greek people are no longer tolerant of memoranda, which is why i voted against the report.
the commission mr president, defence and security policy, as well as foreign policy, is the exclusive responsibility of each member state, as defined in the lisbon treaty, and this must be respected by the european union. the report makes a lot of money out of increasing defence spending by member states. the increase of at least 2% of gdp for defence spending, i.e. some eur 100 billion more by 2020, is a significant amount that could be used to increase jobs in the union. the allocation of such exorbitant sums to support european military interventions is aimed primarily at increasing the profits of the european union's armaments industry and the military industrial complex, rather than at the essence of the matter, namely the protection of civilians. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission i voted in favour of the report. the participation of citizens and civil society in the commons is crucial for the proper functioning of democracy and for legitimacy, as well as for the accountability of national and union representation systems. the attitude of the european institutions towards the economic and refugee crisis is shaking citizens' trust in these institutions, while e-democracy, which should support the principles of democracy through information technology and governance, has so far failed to reduce citizens' lack of trust. in order to restore citizens' trust in the european institutions, the european union must redefine its objectives, focusing on a substantial solution to the migration crisis. the commission has also proposed that the european union should immediately implement the relocation of refugees from greece to other countries of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to combat unemployment. at the same time, e-democracy should strengthen citizens' trust in the european institutions.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for the opportunity afforded by those questions to clarify one or two issues. first, as has been reiterated in the eu action plan against migrant smuggling, the duty to render assistance to persons or vessels in distress at sea is an obligation under international law. this is a binding obligation on states, who are obliged to ask ship masters of private, commercial or military vessels to render assistance. the ship masters vessels of nongovernmental organisations are bound by the same duties as ship masters of state vessels. second, it does not help to make, if i may say so, general assumptions on the role of all civil society organisations. these organisations are mostly active in support of governments and international organisations. at the same time, rules must be respected, and close coordination between all involved in search and rescue operations in the mediterranean is obviously key to ensuring the safety of all concerned, migrants and crews alike. coordination of the rescue efforts is ensured primarily by the state responsible for the region where an incident is taking place. any assisting vessel, be it private owned or state controlled, must therefore follow the instructions of the responsible maritime rescue coordination centre. so to take this example, in the case of search and rescue in the central mediterranean region, coordination must take place with the italian authorities. third, when it comes to criminalisation of migrant smuggling, we need to be clear about the existing legal framework. according to existing eu legislation, facilitation of unauthorised entry is the act of intentionally assisting a person who is not a national of a member state to enter or transit across the territory of a member state in breach of that member state’s immigration laws. national authorities are the competent body to judge this. they are also competent to assess whether the conduct of any ngo, or indeed other legal or natural person, rescuing people in a specific case could amount to a form of collusion or cooperation with migrant smuggling networks. so far the commission has not received any official information from any member states about investigations or prosecutions of ngos involved in search and rescue activities in the mediterranean for having participated in migrant smuggling. finally i would like to emphasise that the commission does not provide any financial assistance to ngos engaged in search and rescue activities in the mediterranean. eu funding through the international security fund can support search and rescue operations at sea which arise during maritime border surveillance operations. these are the exclusive responsibility of public authorities, hence search and rescue operations carried out by third parties, such as ngos, are not eligible under the internal security fund for eu funding.
i listened very carefully to your answer to the questions that were raised. personally, i was not completely satisfied with the answers, they were very general. i believe that if there have been some statements or leaks from frontex in the media, then the commission should investigate this more and look more closely at whether this is relevant information from this agency or whether it is just a statement taken out of context and is fundamentally false, merely misconstrued. i'm a supporter of the nonprofit sector, i think their work is important. on the other hand, if there is a suspicion that some non-profits, even unknowingly, are helping smugglers, this is very serious information and should not end with such a general statement. so please, it would be good to look at this more, to hear the frontex representative and perhaps to inform parliament in some more detailed form. i believe that the problems described here and in the media are due to the fact that we are still failing to do what we often talk about, to create some refugee camps in north africa, where these people could be temporarily gathered and from where their possible asylum procedures could be handled in relation to individual eu countries. unless this is done, there is a risk that the number of refugees from africa will continue to rise in the future, and there is also a risk that the tragedy at sea will not, unfortunately, decrease significantly. so, in my view, the debate today is only a fragment of the whole problem, and the european commission should focus more on whether it is possible in the future to set up camps on the african continent where potential asylum seekers could be placed and then apply for asylum.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, this is a very serious matter. i have visited the aegean islands and i have a full picture of what is going on. i have visited four times samos, twice lesvos, once idomene and once chios. so i have a picture of what is happening, and right now in the aegean islands there are several thousand refugees, but mostly illegal immigrants; that's the key element. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot continue in this state. secondly, i have officially denounced the ngo as a state within a state from the very beginning. they do whatever they want at the level of greece. they have no control, they have no control from the commission. in chios, they've created a makeshift guesthouse inside the archaeological site. if this had been done by a greek citizen, he would have been arrested. what matters is what happens to the funds. there's the key! 195 million euros of funding from the european union has been given to ngos and they're having a party. the refugees have frozen in moria, in ritsona. there's a question of the food they give, the supplies they make, the terms they make them on, or the amounts they give to the so-called volunteers, which are incredible. no more checks! what i'm telling you, i've said before here. i have intervened and i have asked, mr president, for olaf to intervene, for an inspection to be carried out. i told mr. stylianides, who was sitting there, that there would be trouble. i think that the funds should first of all go to local authorities, where there is control, where we can know what we are doing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on 27 march, representatives from the aegean islands will come to brussels for an event where they will tell you what is happening. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the key is the funding that the ngos get; the party that's going on. cut this party and you'll see there's no problem.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, on behalf of the ecr, we want to denounce mr dijsselbloem's attitude, because the eurogroup is an institution which takes measures which reduce pensions and wages, which pursues an anti-people policy, and mr dijsselbloem does not dare to come and support the decisions of the eurogroup. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and we believe that it is not the fault of the european parliament that the european parliament has been so unable to take up its responsibilities. this is the reality. we think it should be voted down by the eurogroup. and that is the responsibility of the leaders of the european union. so we invite them to make their own decisions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our position on the dijsselbloem phenomenon was expressed by the chairman of our group who spoke earlier: disapproval, anger at the insult to colleagues and to the european parliament. but on this occasion, and because the debate has been broadened, mr president, and certain points of principle have been raised, i ask the question: who gave such powers and such powers to the president of the eurogroup and to the eurogroup in general? was dijsselbloem good when he came here insulting the cypriots, proceeding with the restrictions on deposits and memoranda? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of denouncing this institutional distortion, this domination of the eurogroup by mr dijsselbloem, it is good to think about what we have accepted as the european union, what we have accepted as the eurozone in relation to mr dijsselbloem and the powers of the eurogroup.
the commission mr president, the idea of creating a european solidarity corps is a positive one and seems to satisfy the desire of young people to contribute to society as a whole, but at the same time to acquire the conditions which will enable them to find a decent job in the future. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of young people against the dangers of ionizing radiation is a welcome one. as you know, throughout europe, and particularly in greece, which is affected by the memoranda, unemployment among young people is at a very high level. the creation of the solidarity corps is bound to attract the interest of young people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. we must give young people the opportunity to acquire skills which will help them in their later careers and not let them fall victim to a requirement to find workers who will work on starvation wages just because they need to work.
the commission mr president, when the idea of establishing a european solidarity corps was announced, there was a lot of talk, a lot of talk: that it would strengthen social cohesion, that the participation of young people would create a sense of belonging, that it would strengthen the concept of european citizenship, that there would be solidarity in action, that there would be a contribution to society as a whole, and that it was essentially an act of volunteering and altruism. so we see that there are 25,000 volunteers. and suddenly we discover that this is a system where some people will get jobs. that's now coming up in the conversation. finally, the european solidarity corps, which has a specific direction for young people who want to help and participate, is one thing, but employment programmes are another. these belong to erasmus. we have to stop the double-speak, please.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission takes its replies to parliamentary questions seriously. today’s oral question was added to the agenda at such short notice, making it difficult to give a complete response to the issues you raised. nevertheless, i am able to make a few remarks in response. as a sign of the importance that the commission attaches to these matters, president juncker wrote recently, on 13 march, to president tajani on this very subject. in his letter the president said, once again, that the commission, under his leadership, has been committed from the start to filling with new life the special partnership with the european parliament as laid down in the framework agreement of 2010. only together can we change and renew europe and regain citizens’ trust in the european project. replies to written questions are an integral part of our close relations. the commission sees them as an important democratic scrutiny tool, which must be given due consideration. over the last two years, measures have been taken by both institutions to improve the system of written questions and answers. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s efforts to set a maximum number of written questions to be tabled by members of the european parliament. this is appreciated by the commission in a spirit of cooperation between the two institutions. the commission makes every effort to reply in good time and to provide high-quality and politically-pertinent replies. the success of these efforts depends also on the quality of the questions. in 2016 the commission replied to more than 9 500 written questions. an average of 40 replies a day was transmitted to the european parliament throughout last year. it is important to recall that, according to article 230 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, parliamentary questions are to be answered by the european commission and thus by the college, and not by individual commissioners. this is why each reply is subject to wide internal consultation and agreed by the commission through a collegial process, in order to enhance the quality and political relevance. it is in this context that the commission has chosen to set an indicative limit to the length of replies in order to facilitate the smooth operation of the process and to avoid disproportionate costs arising. derogations from this limit are made where necessary. president juncker has asked all members of the college to pay the utmost importance to the replies to written questions of the members of the european parliament, to discuss the answers amongst members to avoid silo approaches, and to give political answers to political questions. the commission is ready to join forces with you to ensure that the limitation in the number of questions is matched with high-quality replies. the treaty does not set out any deadlines for replies, but the commission makes all reasonable efforts to reply to written questions in good time and, wherever possible, within the target dates that parliament has requested. new efforts have been made in recent months to reduce the numbers of replies delivered after these targets, and these are already bearing fruit. in this context, the secretariat-general of the commission is in contact with the secretariat-general of the european parliament to work together to further improve the mutual performance of our institutions. in this context i can inform you that a meeting between the responsible deputy secretaries-general of the two institutions in planned already for next week.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i have repeatedly protested in this chamber against the reduction in the number of questions that members can put. you know, one of the key aspects of the functioning of this parliament is to put parliamentary questions, because our role is to vote, but also to control the executive, to control you as a commission. so, your answering 9,000 questions doesn't mean anything to me. you have to answer questions because you are acting, because you are making decisions, because you are using enough resources. that's the first one. the second is that when you give some answers, most of them are vague, they don't answer the question, they throw the ball on the floor, as we say. so you have to be much clearer, you have to give answers, you have to tackle the issues and you have to see the questions as an opportunity to improve your own work, to improve the performance of the commission itself.
i'm the editor. madam president, how much is human dignity worth? the commission is not going to be able to do that. it is not enough to say that the european union is not a democratic country, but that it is not a democratic country. trafficking is the fastest growing crime in the world. it's modern slavery with over 30 million victims, of which 5.5 million are children. and it takes many forms: prostitution, forced labor, forced begging, baby trafficking and organ trafficking -- that's where we are today. yes, we have a pretty good anti-trafficking directive. but why is it so poorly done? the commission's strategy is contradictory. how does the union deal with traffickers? by blocking legal immigration routes? but that's how he pushes people into the arms of the underground networks. closed borders are a treasure trove for traffickers and you are all complicit in it. how will the union prevent gender-based violence? by delaying to sign and ratify the istanbul convention? that is why i propose a sustainable strategy against trafficking. what does " sustainable " mean ? i mean, focus on reducing poverty and great inequality. because, for the left, they are the sources of human trafficking throughout history. yes to more funding for victim information and support. yes to tougher penalties for the "clients". first of all, we need to coordinate european policies against inequality and poverty, so that people are not a commodity with an expiry date, ladies and gentlemen.
the commission madam president, human trafficking is the modern form of slavery. it is a heinous crime which degrades the personality and dignity of man, because it treats him as an object for profit. victims include young women who are forced into prostitution and children who are either used in forced labor under squalid conditions or have their organs removed and sold for illegal trade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned. unfortunately, because the profits from this illegal activity can easily be funneled into seemingly legal activities, it is not easy for states to deal with this crime. the european union's member states must nevertheless work together and adopt strict laws to combat this unacceptable phenomenon. the key to success in this endeavour is strict border controls. i would like to inform you that when the greek borders were guarded by the greek armed forces, the greek police and the greek coast guard, the illegal trafficking of people was almost zero. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not blocked, and that the european union's external borders are not blocked.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trafficking of human beings, including the use of child soldiers, and has also taken a number of measures to combat the illegal trafficking of children. but turkey has a huge responsibility, because it tolerates and directs the slave trade on the aegean islands, which are full of refugees and, above all, thousands of illegal immigrants. recent publications, mr avramopoulos, prove that the turkish secret services (mit) have set up a spy network in the aegean islands. they exploit the slave traders, they exploit people who work with the slave traders, and that's extremely dangerous. we even had arrests. the next thing that strikes me is what mr tusk said today in skopje. he praised the skopjes for closing the border, which ban ki-moon himself had said was illegal. so, the borders are closed so that the slave traders can do their job and increase the amounts they demand? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote.
ecr), in writing. as the report shows, fraudulent practices by the brazilian authorities, especially those of the peripheral states, in relation to exports of unsuitable and dangerous meat to the eu are on the agenda, as they have been common practice for many years. this is also the result of the uncontrolled policy at eu level, which in the context of globalisation has opened its doors to massive imports of agricultural and livestock products of dubious quality. moreover, the eu's leadership in the field of the common agricultural policy has virtually dismantled agriculture and livestock farming, leaving the union essentially dependent on imports to meet the nutritional needs of the european population. for all these reasons, it is now necessary to re-establish the principle of community preference in order to protect agriculture and livestock farming and to develop a policy which will make the eu self-sufficient and self-sufficient, particularly in meat production. in addition, strict controls on imports of meat from brazil and other third countries should be imposed here and now, while strict measures restricting imports of meat from third countries should be imposed.
the commission madam president, i had asked to speak at the previous debate on 'catch-the-eye' in good time, but unfortunately you did not have me on the list. the commissioner mentioned that we are codifying legislation from 1986. but, commissioner, have you asked yourself what has happened to fisheries in the last 30 years? if european fisheries have developed, what social problems and unemployment levels do they face? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the community are not caught by the troika. i agree that a distinction should be made between small and large fishing vessels. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts. these are issues that we must certainly take into account, as well as the social particularities of coastal communities.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report itself says that between 2005 and 2010, 2.4 million farms disappeared, which means that things are very difficult. so, with regard to women, who suffer most in the agricultural economy - their work is not recognised, they do not receive wages, they do not receive pensions - we must take action and i think the report addresses the issues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. the first is the protection of the environment. the environment is not a present factor, it is a public good and it is a requirement and an obligation to safeguard it for future generations. on the other hand, and in view of the volkswagen scandal, a centralised, autonomous and independent test system, strict emission limits, a legal framework for accountability and realistic measurements under real conditions should be established. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. the synergy of all the actors involved, the institutions of the member states, experts, technological innovation companies and the automotive industry is needed. unfortunately, illicit profiteering and unfair competition tendencies always play a leading role in an informal corruption competition. history has shown that the leaders of political parties other than nationalist ones, protected by parliamentary immunities, negotiate, feed, cover up this entanglement and are prone to bribery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, it is now clear that this is a scandal, and that the car industry, the member states and the european commission are responsible for it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies, and that the european market is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. in the united states of america consumers were compensated. in the european union, why not? in a single market there needs to be a common framework for protection. as the european commission admitted in a recent question i put to it, unfortunately that is not possible today. that must change immediately. we cannot talk about a single market without strong and equal protection for all consumers, regardless of the member state in which they reside. finally, it is unacceptable, after what we have learned, that the european commission continues to legitimize some of the illegality by keeping compliance rates so high, effectively doubling the permitted emissions.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report because it is complete and well documented. it is estimated that the illegal conversion of tropical forests for commercial agriculture produces huge amounts of carbon dioxide, equivalent to 25% of the european union's annual emissions from fossil fuels. fires in indonesia are usually caused by clearing land for palm oil plantations, and since the 1970s, 90% of the increase in palm oil production has been concentrated in indonesia and malaysia. the situation with deforestation, land grabbing, the violation of the rights of indigenous communities is now becoming critical and dangerous, with further damage to the environment. the european union should therefore take measures to phase out the use of vegetable oils, and in particular palm oil, as a biofuel component by 2020, in order to drastically reduce deforestation and protect the environment.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report because it is complete and well documented. women in rural areas play a key role in the development of agriculture and livestock farming. despite the european union's rhetoric about the alleged development dimension of the common agricultural policy, the poverty and underdevelopment of rural areas in the european south is proof of the european union's failure in this area as well. it is also characteristic that in recent years millions of farms have disappeared, leading to the crisis and unemployment in rural areas, with women farmers being the main victims. in greece in particular, the agricultural memorandum of the troika and the creditors is deteriorating dramatically and further degrading the position of the greek peasant woman. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that it should be able to take part in the negotiations.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report because it is complete and well documented. at a time when schäuble is pointing the finger at greece and asking my country to take additional tough memorandum measures to allegedly improve the competitiveness of the country's economy, the volkswagen scandal proves once again that the famous competitiveness of german companies is almost exclusively due to the bribes and the illegal and dirty practices they use to deceive the regulatory authorities and consumers. in addition, investigations carried out in other member states into the car industry have revealed that there have been abuses and methods of circumvention of the results by other manufacturers. the european union should take immediate action by carrying out strict checks on cars of all companies throughout europe to protect the environment, health and consumers themselves.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, mr dijsselbloem is absent to hear all parties’ comments. he should have been here in the european parliament to apologise to the people of southern europe and if not, to resign from his post. κύριε πρόεδρε, δύο μηνύματα για την αξιολόγηση στην ελλάδα. μήνυμα πρώτο προς τους θεσμούς: κλείστε την αξιολόγηση άμεσα! ο διάβολος κρύβεται στις λεπτομέρειες. ο ελληνικός λαός έχει κάνει πολλές και μεγάλες θυσίες. μήνυμα δεύτερο προς την ελληνική κυβέρνηση: μην παίζετε με τη φωτιά! προσέξτε το ατύχημα! η πολιτική σας θυμίζει την πολιτική τσίπρα-βαρουφάκη του καλοκαιριού του 2015, όταν φτάσαμε ένα βήμα πριν από τον γκρεμό, στη δραχμή, έξω από το ευρώ και την ευρωζώνη, στην άτακτη χρεοκοπία. η ελλάδα σήμερα χρειάζεται αλληλεγγύη από το εξωτερικό, συναίνεση και σοβαρότητα στο εσωτερικό. αυτός είναι ο μόνος τρόπος για να βγούμε από αυτή τη μεγάλη παρατεταμένη κρίση με το μικρότερο δυνατό κόστος για τον ελληνικό λαό.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr moscovici, the troika wants its own monogamy. although you refuse to release the remaining eur 19.5 billion of the third loan, you nevertheless demand the implementation of the memorandum measures to 100%. you must either reduce the memorandum measures by 25% or proceed to release the remaining loan, in order to use this money to recapitalize the insurance funds looted with psi, establish a special public fund for red loans and finance the establishment of a development bank for investments in the greek economy and reduction of unemployment. finally, as troika, return the 3.5 billion euros that the esm has embezzled, money that belongs to greece and concerns the reimbursement of the ecb's 2014 profits from greek bonds, in order to finance a broad development project to create 300,000 new jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. stop, as a troika, pressing and demanding pension cuts, tax increases, divestment of the power company and state property instead of a billboard. the greek people cannot tolerate humiliation and will soon give the government and the troika and mr dijsselbloem, who did not dare to appear here to apologize, the answer they deserve. because there is another way.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the greek people have made great sacrifices, they have made great changes and the greek economy has made significant progress in the last year and a half, as commissioner moscovici has admitted. but now it is time for the creditors to meet their own obligations, because the continuing delay, commissioner, is damaging both the greek economy and the eurozone itself. the delay is due, as the commission representative himself said yesterday in brussels, to the absurd demands made at the last minute by the international monetary fund and mr schäuble, the german minister for finance. it is necessary for those who have a brain to defend the economic and geopolitical interests of both greece and the eurozone. that means concluding the technical agreement yesterday and not tomorrow and concluding the overall package of the agreement in april, mr moscovici, with a balanced budgetary package, as you said, after 2018, with sustainable debt, with realistic primary surpluses and with the return of collective bargaining in greece, because greece is part of europe. it is the only way to win economically and geopolitically for my country and my people, and for the eurozone. let us not forget that the greeks are guarding european borders, they are standing by the destabilising factor called erdoğan, and the 27 have every reason, after brexit, to show that they are united and respect in practice, and not just in words, the sacrifices of the greek people.
mr president, do you have the nerve to discuss an evaluation, new pension cuts and new austerity measures that will bring the greek people to their knees? official figures that come to light daily rank greece among the poorest countries. we are on the list of the most unhappy citizens, we have the highest suicide rate in europe, we have the highest unemployment rate in europe, one in two greek children is malnourished and we are sitting down with dijsselbloem in the eurogroup to discuss further cuts, the abolition of labour rights and the liberalization of redundancies. the european parliament, which is the only institution in the world that has the power to decide on the future of the union, has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not forced to take decisions that are contrary to the interests of the citizens of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is no wonder, then, that britain has chosen to leave. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, those who are calling for the closure of this evaluation, supposedly for the good of greece, are in fact calling for further pension cuts, further loss of income through the tax-free allowance, further selling off of public property and the dissolution of industrial relations. my dear colleagues, since 2010, for seven years now, the greek people have been living in a state of constant blackmail. the creditors and the government are shifting the blame on each other for the failure of a programme, the one described in the memoranda, which has led the greek people into poverty and misery. mr moscovici, once again you have told us, in essence, that if we reduce pensions in greece, if we sell off public wealth, in this case pte, and if we undervalue our lives and the future of our children, we will recover. but instead, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the policies of the troika and the eurozone has resulted in a huge loss of income, the highest unemployment in the european union, the emigration of 500,000 young scientists and an increase in public debt. the question, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is not whether the second review should be concluded, but whether the greek people should be able to resist and break with the policies of austerity and the eurozone in order to be able to develop.
the commission mr president, before anything else, because it has been said here, i would like to say that the greek people are really laughing at the joke that tsipras is a communist. the troika and the syriza-anel government are in a hurry to bring forward the fourth toughest memorandum, while the other parties are arguing over who brings forward the best memoranda. everyone agrees: a new 15th crackdown on pensions and wages, taxing the poorest to exempt the richest, mass layoffs, a blow to the right to strike, privatizations. all for the recovery not of the people, but of capital. these are the best practices and the acquis of the european union: when everyone is worried about the delay of the fourth memorandum, the workers worry about their lives. no more assigning new saviors, the same savages as before. the capitalist barbarity, with or without memoranda, has no end unless it is stopped by the organised working class and the popular strata themselves. the european union and capitalism are not humanized. so on 7 april, eurogroup day, the workers on the streets are responding. with the communists in the lead, the communist party of greece, they are opening the way to the overthrow.
mr president, i believe that there are a few things we can do in the european parliament to speed up the closure of the second evaluation of the third programme, which was originally scheduled for february 2016 but has been delayed for 14 months. almost everything depends on the negotiation of the tsipras government with the ruling party, syriza, which we at least do not influence. two characteristic examples: the tsipras government has signed off on the privatisation of all public enterprises, including the partial privatisation of the public electricity company. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. second example: the tsipras government has accepted new large pension cuts, larger than those it imposed in 2015 and 2016. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new rules are applied in a timely manner, and that the new rules are applied in a timely manner. i believe that the tsipras government will eventually contribute to the closure of the second review. he would rather take on a large part of syriza than anger the majority of the greek people by returning the national economy to the crisis of 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
question with a blue card. mr. kourtsos, both you and your former colleague, mr. kefalogiannis, have accused the greek government of playing with fire. here mr gualtieri from the socialist group accused mr schäuble of playing with fire and mrs keller from the greens and other colleagues, who are not in the left group and do not support the tsipras government, accused mr schäuble and the international monetary fund of delaying the evaluation. so i wanted a straight answer. do you hold the greek government or the creditors, in particular mr schäuble and the international monetary fund, responsible for the delay in the evaluation?
answer to a question with a blue card. the greek government has the responsibility, because, as difficult as the situation is - because indeed both european partners and creditors, many times, have demands that must not be met - we have a delay from february 2016, we are in april, we go probably for may and, because we have to take the dose in june, to pay in july, we probably reach the end of this serial. but i think the problem is internal and you will give us the answer, not me. i mean, how can tsipras sign the privatization of deko and syriza have objections? how can tsipras accept a new pension cut and your party object? so, that's the problem. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it was like i was analyzing what the democratic party should do in italy.
mr president, i am sorry that the commissioner is not in the chamber at the moment, but i will ask him as if he were here and i would like to ask him directly: what is your real objective? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. seven years ago, with willing governments, threatening and blackmailing the greek people, you humiliated parliamentary democracy, imposed colonial agreements for 100 years and, at the same time, dismantled society. as for the debt, it went from 120% in 2010 to 180% today, with your own bailout programs, at an unimaginable height and, by all accounts, impossible to service. what more do you ask of the greek people? but stop talking about exit plans. commissioner, even if you are not here, i want to tell you that your policies are producing brexit, they are bringing the far-right first party into the limelight in your country and in the netherlands they almost brought them into government. tell me, what were you celebrating in rome the day before yesterday? the european principles that are being trampled on or the europe of many speeds that you are promoting? it seems that greece at this juncture is your useful tool to consolidate the results of this crisis, which ultimately seems to be serving you. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
answer to a question with a blue card. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would do what no one has done and what the european union itself is imposing with its directive: i would control the debt from the beginning. you have imposed a debt on the greek people without checking it, whereas directive 247 requires countries under budgetary control to check their debt first and then, if in the case of greece the greek people really owed, to pay up to the ceiling. at the moment, the greek people are in this situation, not knowing how, when and why this debt was created and who imposed it. we know very well that the greek people are currently paying for the gambling of the banks of all nations.
mr president, mr zijlstra's reference to the greek people as being little children is racist and unacceptable. i think that sanctions should be imposed on him, because it is not possible for members of the european parliament in this chamber to speak for a whole people in this way.
mr. president, today i feel anger. anger at the role of parliament. are we a step of disconnected monologues or the vehicle of democratic legitimacy? and why do we accept our marginalization? anger at the role of institutions. the assessment is not closing and the already deeply sick greek economy is threatened with collapse. but even after it is closed, as the previous fourteen were closed positively, greece does not emerge from the fiscal quagmire and the development lag. anger at the easy condemnation speech of the greek government, where everything is the fault of others, of conspirators whose only aim is to bring down the failing tsipras government, and so no responsibility falls on our shoulders, even when we do not implement what we vote in parliament. are we finally going to admit that for seven years now, institutions and governments have been trading in wage cuts, pension cuts and a welfare state for an amnesty for the deep client state, that is, organised corruption and distorted growth? the evaluation should have been completed by now, parliament should have assumed its democratic role and the greek programme should not have been a toy, including for the german elections.
mr president, commissioner, a short while ago you were saying that the evaluation would be closed in 2016, but the elstat figures have once again exposed the failure of the greek programme. it's 2017, and of course, the evaluation is still not over. now you are asking for new measures for the period after 2018, a new perpetual memorandum, and you are constantly giving us new, festive dates for the completion of the evaluation, without taking any responsibility. apart from blaming the imf and the council, and covering for tsipras and his nationalist government, can you tell us what the commission will do to stop sending the bill to the greek taxpayers for this failed assessment and the failed programme implemented by greece?
mr president, the forecasts for gdp in 2017 now range between 0.5% and 1.7% instead of the 2.5% estimated in the budget. at the same time, there has been a run on deposits since the beginning of the year. if the agreement is not concluded soon, the targets for reducing red loans, which have actually started to increase in recent months, will not be met. it's important for all sides to understand that every day that passes is not coming back. every day of delay is another blow to the greek economy. the consequences of all this will be offset by new additional measures, which will again be paid for by the greek people, as is always the case. finally, i would like to refer to a statement by my colleague, mr ferber, who said that greece is wrong to be number one in defence spending until 2015. it is not right that greece, which is in a very difficult economic situation, should be paying so much money for insurance. but instead of pointing the finger at greece, which is in a critical geopolitical position, the german government should put its hand in its pocket and pay more for european security in the years ahead.
mr president, i am very saddened by the departure of commissioner moscovici, such a great benefactor of the greek economy. i would also like to congratulate mr dijsselbloem on his honesty. he doesn't hide his disgust for greece and democracy and he shows it clearly. i wish the rest of the institutions were as honest. i don't blame them for that. i wonder how long the greek people will tolerate them being abused at their expense. a people who have been up against the wall for seven years and are executing him. during the occupation, the greeks, in front of the firing squad, prayed to the virgin mary, sang the national anthem and shouted: "long live freedom!" and "long live greece!" no matter how much certain political parties in greece do not want to hear these historical events. you should know that the greeks have a long history of heroism rather than servitude. beyond politics and parties, beyond the economy, you have imposed a pre-agreed and memorandum-approved enslavement of the greek nation, equivalent to that of the turkish conqueror, from which it took 400 years to free ourselves, a barbarity disguised under the unholy alliance of the troika. but don't be fooled by some. the greek people will shout: 'farewell tsipras!', 'farewell europe!', 'farewell barbarism!'
mr president, in greece we are again living the nightmare of uncertainty and this nightmare is repeating itself and is seriously hurting the lives of the greek people. we are not here to ignore the responsibility of the greek government, which is sending them the bill late. but the question to the commission, which is no longer represented here by commissioner moscovici, is whether you know what is really happening in the greek economy. i heard mr moscovici speak of resilience and high primary surpluses. are you aware that the greek government's arrears are now up to 500 million? do you know that in the first quarter of 2017 alone, about three billion euros left the greek banks? you talked about technical changes in the energy market. do you know that the market value of the public electricity company reached, at the end of 2014, 2.5 billion euros and now it is only 600 million? the commission is not in a position to give a definitive answer to the question of the future of the community. can you make a safe forecast for the possibility of full market access for greece in 2018? we need serious reforms. we need a government committed to reform. even if mr dijsselbloem, who looks like a political corpse, leaves tomorrow morning, the course of our country will not change. we need creditors who will not only see the numbers but the substance of the greek programme and will not use it for electoral reasons.
mr president, the second evaluation of the greek programme is being delayed because the european institutions have been dragged behind the absurd demands of the international monetary fund for new, tougher austerity measures at the expense of low-wage earners and pensioners. while, for example, the international labour organization estimates that the minimum threshold for a decent living in greece is 7,000 euros a year, the fund claims the tax-free threshold to be around 5,500, seeking to wean off people who lack tax-paying capacity. the creditors also demand the abolition of collective redundancies and stubbornly refuse to reinstate collective bargaining, thus violating articles 28 and 30 of the charter of fundamental rights of the union and ignoring the findings of the committee of experts set up with their participation and consent. the negotiations must be concluded immediately, on the basis of european principles and values, with the withdrawal of the unreasonable demands of the creditors.
in writing. mr president, the delay in closing the second review has literally frozen the greek economy, causing investment inaction, declining consumption, job losses, outflows of deposits, an increase in bad loans and a near revision of budget targets for the current year. the role of the greek government, the european union and the imf is well known, as are the mistakes and omissions on each side. the greek government must certainly promote the necessary reforms, but the institutions, for their part, should not be overly demanding. in the light of the overall course of the greek adjustment programme, we cannot ignore that in the seven years of crisis greece has paid a very heavy price, losing, among other things, 25% of its gdp, one million jobs and half a million young scientists who were forced to leave in search of a better life abroad. at a difficult time for europe, with many and difficult open fronts, it is clearly in the common interest that greece should return to a state of stability. the solution must not be based on recessionary measures such as overtaxation, but on stimulating growth by attracting new investment.
in writing. the evaluation we are discussing today should have been completed 14 months ago. it didn't close. about two months ago, we heard that the negotiations were progressing well and that the evaluation would be closed soon. it didn't close. today, greece remains on the edge of the cliff and uncertainty. our country is caught between the tactics of a government that seeks accountability and mr dijsselbloem, who is playing the european parliament in secret and speaking vulgarly against our peoples. the greek people can no longer stand uncertainty, they cannot stand another 'nightmare' like 2015. the people of greece are seeking solidarity, a european and fair approach from our partners and from the greek leadership, which is unable to give any realistic answers.
mr president, the need felt by every individual to protect or restore his health has given rise to profiteering in the circles of those involved in the production and operation of medical equipment and other related products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the final victims and beneficiaries of this unacceptable situation, however, are the patients and those who use these materials, because not only do they spend large sums on often defective materials, but also because their health is endangered. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteurs of the new regulation because, among other things, they have provided for many, varied and strict controls of the industries and products produced and in this way they protect public health.
the european union has a long history of supporting the right of asylum and the right to free movement, and we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the fight against illegal immigration. the european union's mistaken policy of a europe without frontiers has given the peoples of asia, the middle east and africa the right to regard the european union as a promised land to be reached by any means and by any means. but this trend must stop. the european union, and particularly the countries of entry, italy and especially greece, cannot absorb any more illegal immigrants. the european union must not allow the death of millions of people in the mediterranean, and the migrants must not live in poverty in the reception centres in greece. the peoples of europe must live in freedom and dignity and in accordance with their own principles in their own countries. it is not sensible to try to integrate into our countries people who do not want to join but instead want to dominate. the european union must not be allowed to risk the security of europe for the sake of a general and abstract concept of solidarity. we must control the borders, we must strengthen the countries of the external neighbourhood so that migrants can remain there, we must stop the causes that lead to migration and, finally, we must force erdoğan not to threaten to flood europe with three million illegal migrants.
madam president, the union's external action to deal with migration flows must strike a balance between two strategies: prohibition and deterrence. as each independent state has strong armed forces with a deterrent and defence role, so the union must align itself accordingly. in this sense, its policy must be based on three pillars: the prohibition of the entry of illegal immigrants at the external borders, the readmission of all those who have entered illegally and the prevention of migration, with financial and logistical assistance to third countries and the parallel imposition of a clause against objectives and commitments in order to address the root causes of migration, namely political, economic, developmental, social and humanitarian. any short-term approach to the situation will only aggravate the problem and lead to further waste of union resources.
i would ask you to respect the rules. i gave you the floor to ask mr engel a question and you, by misleading the president, used the time you had for putting a question to ask the spanish colleague who had spoken earlier, when you had tabled your request very late. please respect the rules. sit down, i'm not giving you the floor. mr engel, if you think the previous colleague asked you a question, please answer. and you don't have a say, so please, next time, follow the rules. mr. engel, would you like to answer?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the balkan route, the route of the western balkans, which skopje arbitrarily and illegally closed, was also a legal route. that is what mr ban ki-moon said. but we saw mr tusk yesterday in skopje, congratulating the skopje government for illegally closing this otherwise legal migration route. second, relocation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union must do what it has said and relocate the 66,400 refugees from greece. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 5 april 2017. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation of mr jan olbrycht and ms isabelle thomas, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020 (14942/2016 - c8-0103/2017 - 2016/0283 ((app)) (a8-0110/2017), report by mr jan olbrycht and ms isabelle thomas, on behalf of the committee on budgets, containing a non-legislative resolution on the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 on the establishment of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014 to 2020 (a8-0103/2017) and on the proposal for a council decision on the draft budget of the european parliament and of the council (com (2017) 0357 - c7-0208/2014), and on the draft council decision on the draft budget of the european parliament and of the council (com (2017) 0358 - c7-0208/2017) (audb)).
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the period 2000 to 2006 is a very good one. first of all, it is important that there is flexibility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one. we must also have the necessary flexibility in dealing with unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second issue is to strengthen action to deal with migration, because europe is full of refugees and too many, i would say, illegal immigrants. the agricultural sector should also be strengthened, as should actions which can reduce the gap between the north and the south, the european south, which is currently suffering from austerity and violent budgetary adjustment.
mr president, i think the main conclusion we draw from this debate is that we need to shed light and transparency on this shadow banking system, a system which has 1 trillion euros, a system which operates more like a casino economy, a system which must put more emphasis on the real economy and strengthen the role of small and mediumsized enterprises in order to be able to support growth. critical issues with respect to liquidity criteria. i think we have made very small steps compared to what should have been done. in addition, there seem to be a great many chapters in luxembourg, and possibly in ireland, which need to be checked even more closely. a key issue is credit rating agencies, because investors rely mainly on credit ratings from questionable quality rating agencies, which play their own games in the context of globalisation and were also largely responsible for the financial crisis.
mr president, thank you for the honor of being the last speaker. i am of course of the opinion, as are all my colleagues, that the aim of the capital markets union is to find sources of finance, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. this means transparency and informing the public through the newsletter. the elimination of red tape is also of great importance, especially for public tenders with a value of less than eur 5 million. but mr dombrovskis, i wanted to ask you a question because recital 9 of the report states explicitly that non-equity securities issued by member states, issued by regional authorities, local authorities, international organisations in which one or more member states participate, so the esm, the efsf and possibly the efsm are not obliged to comply with this regulation, nor are the european central bank and the central banks of the member states. why is there this exception, mr dombrovskis? we'd like an answer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i fully agree that europe has a problem with hate speech and fake news. the political forces currently in power on the continent have launched a rhetorical attack on anyone who expresses views that do not agree with the established ones, and we have reached the point where national dissent has almost been criminalized. it is the present political system that systematically cultivates and nurtures hatred in our societies, breaking up social cohesion and instituting a veritable witch-hunt against those who dare to hold a different view. contrary to what you accuse us of, we believe in freedom of speech. everyone, without exception, must be free to express his opinion, even if we disagree with it. as for populism, the term itself, as used today, is just another creation of the ruling political class that calls anyone who presents a different perspective that is closer to the real needs of citizens a "populist". it is populism, you say, that has led citizens to join parties outside the political establishment. in fact, you just have no contact with their desires. when it comes to fake news, governments and the establishment parties with the fake leaks are hugely responsible. every day, social media outlets friendly to the political establishment distort the truth and create a false reality, hoping to continue to control and guide citizens. there is no bigger and more insidious propaganda mechanism in the world than the operators of these political-interest social media.
mr president, where are fake news, hate speech and populism gaining ground? where there is a lack of transparency, education is degraded and unemployment, poverty and inequality remain high. what is the commission discussing? we don't know in depth. how does the eurogroup take decisions? are the minutes of the meetings of the european stability mechanism, the european central bank or the imf published? i'm not sure. there is darkness, suspicion, information warfare and competition in lies. that's what the citizen has to deal with. lies survive where transparency, education and prosperity are lacking. it's a matter of democracy. and the answer to that is one: all in the light!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs miapetra, on her excellent work. we all know how difficult the process of drafting this text and examining all our amendments has been, and there has been a lot of pressure in the tripartite negotiations with the council. regulation of the wholesale market is a very important step towards a competitive digital single market that benefits european citizens while creating conditions for healthy competition, but more importantly, europe finally delivers on its promises. as we also approach the mid-term evaluation of the digital single market we should show that this effort is continuing. we need more protection and security as a default for users, especially when it comes to our personal data, easy and reliable e-commerce, so that it is easier for everyone, consumers and businesses, without discrimination, within the european union of course, investments in the countries and regions that need it most, so that no one is left behind in this new digital age, but also innovative solutions, such as blockchain technology, that can give back control of data to citizens, while also offering many solutions to many different challenges. so this regulation comes at a crucial time and it sends a very important message to strasbourg and brussels that we are working towards a truly digital single market with more security for european citizens. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) )
answer to a question with a blue card. thank you very much for asking. of course, we are not only trying to create a more single market and to feel more european, especially when we travel, but this can also help small and mediumsized enterprises and all professionals to feel that they are going to a single market. but we have other actions coming up, wifi for europe, free data flow, efsi, juncker plan 2 that will support and increase funding to achieve this digital single market. the commission has already made a number of changes in its priorities, and we are working with it. so the opportunities that are given are very important. what we have to be careful about, and it's very important, is not to give social platforms the ability to control or touch content and not to take the location, the location or the data beyond what the citizens want. so by default, we make sure that everything is safer for european citizens. that will make this purchase safe and important.
the single market cannot function without the digital market, without the digital economy itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the roaming charges are reduced, and that the roaming charges are reduced. the abolition of roaming is thus a positive development for both wholesalers and citizens themselves. it is enough, mr president and commissioner, that it be put into effect, that it be put into effect without asterisks or exceptions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. in this way, citizens will be able to move freely, without obstacles, to be informed via their mobile phones, to download data. the commission will also be supporting small and mediumsized enterprises through the free exchange of data.
question of the blue card. mr president, thank you for accepting my question. i wanted to ask: do you think ukraine is able to assure us that what happened to the syrian passports, which were forged in many thousands of copies and taken by afghans, pakistanis, bangladeshis, will not happen to ukrainian passports? moreover, how can we be sure that these passports will not fall into the hands of organized crime, who will use them for illegal activities?
mr president, two years ago in ukraine, a constitutional change took place. the maidan movement, instigated and aided by outside actors, overthrew the legally elected government of president yanukovych. the seizure of power by a neo-nazi party representing oligarchs and extremist groups is far from a rule of law. the european union is currently negotiating and concluding agreements with a government that has been overthrown in a coup d'état, with the aim of reducing russia's influence. a direct contrast to the primacy of international law as a basic principle of the union. the commission has also been active in the fight against corruption and money laundering. the political world is involved in a number of scandals, the judiciary is blinded and there is a complete lack of european structures. the union should be very careful in its relations with a country which cannot maintain order and in which intolerance, extremism, lawlessness and chaos prevail. in these circumstances any approach to the present government of ukraine is unfortunate to say the least. i think that the subject of your report is guided by interests and not by reality. of course that's what's happening in this room.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, skopje has, in violation of international law, illegally closed its borders to refugees for a long time. the former un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, condemned their action. by closing the legal balkan corridor, skopje has trapped thousands of refugees in greece. and instead of the european union calling them to order, mr tusk himself just the day before yesterday in skopje rewarded their attitude. it has rewarded the skopje people who, in violation of international law, have attacked thousands of refugees on the border with greece in idomeni and illegally fired tear gas and flashbang grenades into the thousands of refugees trapped in idomeni. as long as skopje illegally keeps its borders closed to the thousands of refugees trapped in greece, the greek government must impose a complete economic embargo on the skopje state, which, moreover, continues to be provocative towards greece. the ultimatism of skopje is expressed in the falsification of history and the misuse of the name of our country, a practice which was recently adopted by the rapporteur himself, who called skopje 'macedonia' instead of 'fyrom'. the skopjes must understand that the greek people will not accept the name of our macedonia being trampled on. the greek people will not accept a compound name for skopje with any geographical identification. i am opposed to any future accession of skopje to the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioner, you say that you are working to get the country out of the impasse of the current political crisis and to find its european footing. you claim that your policy of ignoring, glamorizing and rewarding the systemic deficit in key areas of the country and of course in the copenhagen political criteria is helping in this direction. you argue that downplaying all these negative elements that make up the current tragic situation in the country can create a positive climate of consensus and cooperation. i have repeatedly stressed that this policy could only work in the interests of the country and its people. and, unfortunately, the developments confirm that. you've ignored the growth of nationalism in this country. you have applauded the invention of tradition in which its politicians have invested. you ignored the hate speech and xenophobia that was developing. you've got the country's politicians hooked on shirking their responsibilities. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the results of your policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, another report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia - that is its official name, which many people ignore, reinforcing the notion of redemption through a dangerous, dead-end nomenclature - a report which promotes the integration of this country and the western balkans as a whole into the european union and nato in the interests of european monopolies, in order to control the routes for the transport of energy and other products to europe, in competition with capitalist russia, to stop, in accordance with the overall european union plan, the refugee flows of wars, of nato and of the european union. the peoples of europe, after the nato-eu war to dismantle yugoslavia, are again being dragged into it by their governments and the policy of the european union is divided and based on rivalries and risks of a more general conflagration. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. today's developments are related to all of this. the european union's accession means for the people in all countries unemployment, poverty, anti-people reforms, the striking down of workers' and people's rights for the profit of business groups. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the kke opposes the accession of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to the european union for the same reasons as greece. the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of the region on socialism was interrupted by the imperialist intervention. the people have the power, by throwing off the shackles of nato and the european union and bourgeois governments, to live in peace for their own well-being and not for the profits of the monopolies.
madam president, the report is inappropriate, untimely, overdue and utterly utopian. a democratically legitimised government has not emerged through elections and a political negotiation is currently under way. the four albanian minority parties meet in tirana, while conducting underground talks with other parties in albania and kosovo. much of the international community sees the disintegration of the state as a permanent threat to the stability of the wider region. the report is a provocation at the expense of reality. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. the only tentative solution is one and it is one-way: to accept the historical reality that there is no macedonian nation and that they have no basis for the name "macedonia". the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the functioning of democracy is a necessary condition for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to continue its path towards the european union, because that is the official name of the country both in this institution and in the european union. the reason why skopje has not yet been given a date for opening negotiations is not the dispute with greece, as the report wrongly suggests, the dispute over the name which is being negotiated under the auspices of the united nations, until a mutually acceptable solution is found for all. the reason lies in the inability of the skopje political system to accept the rules of independence, justice, freedom of speech, minority rights and, finally, to accept the election result. because of these, ethnic tensions have risen dangerously. we must immediately deactivate, with the intervention of the entire international community, this bomb that could lead to an uncontrolled conflagration in the region. i understand that here in strasbourg we are far apart. but in greece, macedonia and thessaloniki we live next door to the bomb, and any negative developments in skopje will endanger the stability of the region and its effects will be felt directly by greece, which is already burdened by the crisis.
madam president, as the report says, there are conditions in skopje at the moment which are hindering progress towards eu and nato membership: political corruption, division, organised crime and the manipulation of the judiciary. however, there are some who claim that greece is responsible for the delay in the progress of the accession negotiations and even argue that bilateral disputes should not impede this progress. first of all, the issue of skopje with greece, that is to say the name issue, is not bilateral. it is international. but let's suppose sometime today that this name problem is solved. does anyone think that this will help to deal with the problems of skopje? will there be unity in the country? albania will stop claiming its territory as part of the creation of greater albania? will bulgaria stop telling skopje that you should not be called "macedonia" but "vardaska"? so let us be honest and try to put things in their proper perspective. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the citizens of the union are respected.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it is not certain, however, that all member states share these views. and i think that's the point. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe we want to see. and i think the european parliament is setting the tone. i would like to congratulate the colleagues who have put the question because they have highlighted the issues and the contradictions. we, as the european parliament, are fighting. the question is what the member states are doing.
madam president, on the occasion of 8 april, the world day of the roma, we recall the persecution and the social and racial discrimination suffered by the roma throughout history, since they were then considered as supposedly inferior and outsiders. the detentions and persecutions of the roma, which had lasted for many centuries, escalated after 1938. during the second world war, the roma were targeted for extermination and genocide by the nazi germans. it is estimated that the deaths of roma during the holocaust amounted to nearly 70% of the total roma population in europe. however, the european parliament only recognised the genocide of the roma in 2011. in any case, securing resources for the smooth integration of roma, especially in education, training and employment, is of the utmost importance.
mr president, i support the resolution i signed on behalf of a country, bangladesh, where child labour in factories mainly owned by european and other multinational companies is on the agenda. the un considers child marriage a violation of human rights. in bangladesh, right now, 18 percent of girls are married before they're 15. bangladesh has reportedly decided to take action and restrict underage marriages by 2021. but the law that was passed actually allows these marriages. we therefore consider this legislation unacceptable. because it will essentially allow rapists to be able to marry raped underage girls.
the commission mr president, there is no room for hypocrisy in this chamber. most of the leaders of the political groups here try to manipulate people, states, nations, governments. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in hungary, and it is therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the hungarian people are not left behind. the central european university is funded and controlled along with numerous ngos by george soros, who is involved in the internal affairs of states through these organizations. it is the inalienable right and duty of governments to protect their national interests and the citizens of their countries, and the union cannot prevent them from doing so. i want to congratulate orbán because he is taking decisions in the interests of the hungarian nation, fighting against islamization and for the preservation of national identity and defending hungary against the attempts of outside actors to impose globalisation as is happening here.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but how do you define the new reality? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. is this the aim of the pillar? to increase underpaid parttime work and undeclared work? if you want to support working parents, take the proposal for a directive on two weeks' maternity leave out of the fridge, introduce paternity leave, promote reduced working hours without pay cuts and more structures for creative employment of children.
the commission mr president, the so-called european social pillar is another operation to defraud workers, accelerating and generalising the barbaric anti-worker policy of the european union and governments, which is already being implemented uniformly by the european union institutions and the bourgeois governments in all the member states for the profit of the monopolies. the 20 actions of the pillar open the way to the most brutal forms of exploitation: the generalization of flexible employment in the name of a work-life balance, work to the grave and poorhouse pensions in the name of active ageing, the undermining of collective agreements and starvation wages in the name of a minimum income, unlimited intensification and exploitation in the name of innovative forms of work and to go unfettered into submission to the capitalists in the name of social dialogue. the european union is not a democracy, and it is not a democracy. for the working people there is one way: to confront capital and its alliances, to become the owner of the wealth it produces, to live the life it deserves and can.
gue/ngl), in writing. the deep crisis in the eu calls for a new and effective european social pillar that goes beyond rhetoric and leads to concrete results. there is an urgent need for a new 'social contract' between the eu and its citizens. this 'social contract' should aim to strengthen the european social model, to strengthen solidarity between member states, to reduce inequalities both at member state and national level, and to safeguard labour rights and collective agreements. the development of a comprehensive european investment programme, with a focus on infrastructure and social services, the fight against social inequalities and unemployment, and the structural imbalances in the regions (including the demographic problem) could decisively reduce existing imbalances between society, politics and the economy. taking into account best practices of member states and the social partners, it would be desirable to adopt a european regulation to set decent minimum wages and promote effective and broad collective bargaining. in this context, the creditors' demands on greece to further restrict labour rights are not only inappropriate, but also outside the european framework.
ecr), in writing. the eu leadership is completely ambivalent about social rights in the eu, social rights that are being brutally trampled under the feet of merkel's austerity policies and forced fiscal adjustment. the situation in greece is now beyond all limits. thus, in the seven stone years of the memorandum, the greek economy collapsed and the country was transformed into a vast social graveyard, with a loss of 25% of gdp and absolute figures of over 47 billion euros, with cuts in wages, pensions and taxation exceeding 63 billion euros, with the public debt from 123% of gdp before the memorandum finally being pushed to the heights, since according to the imf itself it will climb in 2017 to 184.7% of gdp!!! seven stone years in which 40% of the greek people became poor, the unemployed exceeded 1.5 million and thousands of shops closed, with our young people leaving in their thousands for foreign countries, as the unemployment rate for young people between 15 and 24 is currently at 45.2%. and in addition, it promotes the dissolution of labor relations, mass layoffs and the sale of public property with a special emphasis on hydroelectric power, the country's lignite reserves and hydroelectric power stations.
the commission the european union is not prepared to accept turkey as a candidate country for membership. turkey is a state which is completely alien to the principles and values of european civilization and which despises any notion of civil liberties. especially after the referendum, which has turned this country into a modern-day caliphate, it is imperative that not only negotiations but all aid to turkey be stopped and that turkey be treated as what it really is, a state of unrest with expansionist ambitions against all its neighbours and causing instability in the wider region. in confirmation of what i have said, turkey committed 71 violations of the greek fir yesterday. four air battles and two turkish coast guard vessels have violated greek territorial waters, while at the same time erdogan is threatening to flood the whole of europe with illegal immigrants. i therefore call on the european parliament to press for the complete and final suspension of the accession negotiations, the cessation of all financing and the imposition of sanctions against the turkish regime, since the current situation that erdogan is aiming at is beyond absurd and is hostile to greece and europe.
the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. these developments are part of the intra-bourgeois, intra-imperialist contradictions and rearrangements in the region with rivalries of the united states, the european union, russia, wars in syria and iraq, with the effect that some capitalist states, imperialist centres and monopoly groups gain the upper hand in controlling energy markets, sources and routes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. whatever bourgeois factions prevail, the people will pay a heavy price. in addition, the provocative moves of the turkish bourgeoisie in the region, the disputes over the greek borders, constitute a very dangerous development and show how the rivalries of the bourgeois classes of the two countries, starting with the so-called geostrategic upgrade, are putting the peoples in great adventures. the peoples must draw conclusions and intensify their common struggle on the basis of their own interests alone.
s & d) and the madam president, the result of the referendum has proved that president erdogan is not ultimately in control of the political scene in turkey, as many different forces opposed the referendum on presidential elections and almost half if not more citizens voted no. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. we must keep all channels of communication with turkish society open, as you stressed yesterday, commissioner, and we must not abandon the most important instrument of institutional intervention in the neighbourhood, which is its accession process. we owe it to those who, in difficult circumstances, dared to say no, and to those who, while voting for a leader who could save them, never forgot their european dream. and to keep alive at all costs the refugee agreement that has stopped the flow of migrants to the greek islands, especially as most member states are not keeping their promises to relocate.
the commission i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course, and i am sure that the council will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. i see now that you have realized this; that is good! you must also realise that turkey continues its provocations against greece. it violates greek airspace, greek territorial waters. even yesterday and today this work is being done. erdogan, with the powers he's gaining, is becoming more and more aggressive. the european union must send a message of resolute support to both greece and cyprus, which are currently being hit and threatened by the sultan, who does not even recognise the treaty of lausanne. so it's clear i'm telling you what i've said before: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's it!
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the recent referendum is another step on turkey's road to authoritarianism. the new constitutional arrangements establish a presidential dictatorship under a perforated constitutional cloak. the press is silenced, prisoners are mysteriously found hanging, mps are imprisoned, invalid ballots are validly baptized and any form of doubt is suppressed. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the international obligations imposed on them by the un security council. the last case is the questioning of the borders recognized by international treaties with the provocative statement of the minister of european affairs that the greek island of agathonis is allegedly turkish. the european union must respond by imposing economic and political sanctions. this is the only language mr. erdogan and his subordinates understand.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. yesterday he arrested 803 suspects in the coup. it seeks to reinstate the death penalty, it questions greece's sovereign rights, it has sent a research vessel into the eez of cyprus, it has threatened companies that have concluded a research agreement with the republic of cyprus, it has committed large sea areas in the aegean and cyprus for naval exercises and it threatens to flood europe and greece with three million illegal immigrants. turkey is a country which is expansionist towards all its neighbours and is a problem for all of them and for the european union. so as long as we do not take away its european heritage and the possibility of joining the european union, it will continue to provoke, provoke germany and the netherlands by saying that they are allegedly applying nazi methods and in general it will show everyone that it is a country that cannot join the european union.
the commission the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in turkey. the european union is committed to the development of a democratic turkey, which is a factor of stability in the wider region and firmly committed to democratic ideals. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish people are not left behind. she's not predictable. it is a turkey that has lost its european vision. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the referendum transforms turkey into a presidential republic without the safety nets of modern democracies. the referendum finds turkey deeply divided. the country needs the broadest possible consensus. the commission's proposal is not a good one. i hope mr. erdogan will surprise us positively.
the commission mr president, commissioner, the €143 million that is being reallocated from the structural funds for 2017 to 2020 to support structural change is absolutely necessary funding to support our countries and especially countries like greece, which urgently needs to embark on the path of reform. reforms are essentially the adaptation of our countries to the new globalised environment and must be at the heart of the structural funds' design in order to maximise the return on european taxpayers' money. it is therefore particularly important to explain that technical assistance is given to member states at the request of the government. it is particularly important in this respect that technical assistance reaches municipalities, and especially regions, which manage a large part of the structural funds. finally, it is important to link the provision of technical assistance to performance and efficiency in job creation and not just to absorption of funds.
the commission mr president, mr dombrovskis, you have spoken of reforms, but it seems that you have not made an assessment of the social impact of the reforms, because what we are seeing is that these reforms have a huge negative impact on the living standards of the citizens themselves, they are dismantling the welfare state, they are dismantling industrial relations. you have even mentioned greece and the guaranteed income. do you know how many a month? 230 euros a month to support a family, when greece has really been torn apart by the reforms of your memorandum, when we have 40% of the population living below the poverty line, when with your memorandum reforms we have 1.5 million unemployed, when we have the poor, when pensions have been cut. these are the reforms you've made! they literally tore the country apart. and now you're telling us about the guaranteed income, which they'll get 230 euros. live how ? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of moving towards a europe of peace and security. this is the greece that you, as a troika, have become with your reforms!
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to refer to the european network and information security agency, enisa, as i did last year, and say that there is a sneaky attempt by the leadership of enisa to move an agency from heraklion in crete to athens and then out of greece. i've been following the issue in 2012 and 2013. the methodology was to essentially divide the agency into an administrative department, which remained in heraklion, and a scientific department, which came to athens. while it has free space of 4.5 thousand square meters in heraklion to stay, the organization nevertheless insists on coming to athens, and the report even says so; he's now referring to the agency's efforts to leave heraklion and come to athens, because he has, he says, expenses. but the expense was incurred because the leadership of the organization wanted to come to athens! he should stay on hercules! that's the decision. i shall not vote for the discharge and i shall continue on this matter, and you of the court of auditors and mr oettinger will look at this matter. it's very serious.
the commission the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union. this gives us the opportunity to turn to the mediterranean, because there are also many problems there, and the terms of article 349 of the treaty also apply to the small islands in the mediterranean, in particular the small greek islands, because there too there is a small area, a difficult landform, economic dependence on a small number of products and distance. so we must also have arrangements for the mediterranean, and in particular for greece, in relation to the directive on coastal fishing and we must have changes so that we can finally support the modernisation of the fleet, have positive measures in favour of fishermen, have a special regime, essentially, within the framework of the common fisheries policy with state interventions and with support from the european union. i would like the commissioner, mr oettinger, to look at this in the future.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but those who wanted to make a profit, especially the multinationals, essentially dismantled the textile industry in europe and moved their facilities to the developing world, where we have cases like bangladesh, rights violations, child labor, according to unicef, work accidents, no protection, slavery in essence, events like rana plaza and other things that we've heard about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that we must support the development of clothing and textiles in the european union, within the european union, fair trade, protection of manufacturing in the european south. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
the commission mr president, the troika and the tsipras government are working hand in hand to impose a fourth memorandum, which will complete the transformation of greece into a vast social graveyard; a harsh memorandum that further cuts pensions, reduces the tax base, dissolves labour relations, launches mass redundancies and sells off the ppp, lignite reserves and hydroelectric stations for a billboard. so we have a fourth memorandum with no money, no debt settlement. instead of proceeding to the direct distribution to the impoverished greek people of the social share of the bloody primary surplus, which was overstated, the government finally proceeds to the imposition of new measures amounting to 3.6 billion euros. but soon the greek people will give the troika and the government the answer they deserve, because there is another way for greece.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would first like to welcome president hoyer and, of course, commissioner moscovici. i would like to underline that president hoyer shows an active interest in informing the european parliament on the activities of the eib. i would also like to underline the contribution of the shadow rapporteurs, numerous meps and the experts from the secretariat for the drafting of this report. we started with a rather brief report of almost 4 pages and we ended up with a report that contains 12 pages of evaluations and proposals. i tried to take into account most of my colleagues proposals because i do believe that they contribute to strengthening the role of the eib and developing the institutional cooperation between the eib and the european parliament. the report also incorporates parts of, and is supplemented by, the opinion of four parliamentary committees. i would like to contribute to the interesting discussion that will follow by underlining five major successes of the eib in 2015 and emphasising five other points concerning its activities that could be strengthened or ameliorated. first, in 2015 the eib played a major role in reducing the investment gap that characterises the european union. second, i am impressed by the support given by the eib to countries like greece that face major structural problems that have caused the collapse in investment. third, i am encouraged by the fact that the eib devoted 37% of the new lending granted in 2015 to the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises which altogether constitute the major collective employer in the european union. fourth, i also welcome, along with my colleagues, who have approved the draft report of the econ committee, the strong and increasing eib lending to innovative projects. finally, i believe that the eib acted as a catalyst in the fast and effective implementation of the efsi. positive developments in 2015 go hand in hand with some other aspects of the activities of the eib that have been underlined by the majority of my colleagues and could be strengthened or improved. first, we feel that the eib group should try harder to adhere to the commission stance on aggressive tax avoidance structures and we call on the eib to end cooperation with intermediary countries and jurisdictions that are not following the rules on the market. second, we take the view that the eib should develop its support for micro finance and go beyond the first successful steps in this direction. in this regard, we also think the eib should devise a strategy to increase the financing of micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises in countries with unfavourable economic and banking environments. third, we also invite the eib to further strengthen its investment in social housing projects and increase its social housing project lending in order to cope with the arrival of a large number of refugees in eu member states. fourth, we encourage better coordination between the eib and the commission as far as the external lending of the bank is concerned so that projects financed by the eib and third countries are in line with eu policies. finally, we reiterate our call for the signing of an interinstitutional agreement between the eib and the european parliament on the exchange of information, including the possibility for members to address written questions to the president of the eib. i believe that the economic, financial and investment environment in the eu is much better today than it was in 2015 and that part of the credit for that considerable improvement belongs to the eib and its policies.
the commission madam president, mr hoyer, mr president of the european investment bank, you mentioned greece, but you forgot to tell us that the european investment bank gave a loan of 280 million euros to the german state company fraport to take over the 14 regional airports in greece for 40 years. you forgot to tell us that the bank of greece, as part of the quantitative easing, has already bought eib bonds. is it true that with the money you took from the bank of greece you finally gave the loan of 280 million euros to fraport? you recently gave 100 million euros to a greek bank which a few days earlier, allegedly completely by chance, had given a loan of 284.7 million euros, also to fraport. did you finance the international financial cooperation bank and the ebrd, which also gave 250 million euros to fraport?
rapporteur. – madam president, the discussion we have had was very interesting. a lot of issues were raised, in almost all cases in a constructive way. i would like to complete my contribution to the discussion with a positive assessment of the future activities of the eib and its institutional relations with parliament. first, the eib is functioning in a more favourable economic environment than in previous years. the eurozone economy grew in 2016 at a rate of 1.7%, which surpasses the usa’s 1.6%. the economic dynamics are even better in the european union of the 28 member states. public debt was reduced as a percentage of gdp in the eurozone and in the european union as a whole. in addition, the budget deficit in the eurozone was reduced to 1.5% of gdp in 2016, much lower than the 3% limit. that means that the eib is in a better position to collaborate with the commission, the member states, and the private sector to boost its investment activity. second, parliament has developed its constructive criticism concerning the activities of the eib, and i am certain that president hoyer and his collaborators will respond in a positive way. they have the managerial skills to further improve the operation of the eib and president hoyer, as a former parliamentarian, can grasp the political and social dimension of our criticism. third, we have to be optimistic, because economic pessimism is usually proven to be a self-fulfilling prophecy.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr dijsselbloem, the greek people are sending you a message of indignation and protest over your shameful and unacceptable statements. we are not convinced by your explanations, because you said otherwise when the matter was brought before the committee on budgets. the greek people also send you a message of protest against the unacceptable policies of the eurogroup, which have turned greece into a vast social graveyard. the memoranda, mr dijsselbloem, instead of reducing the public debt, have caused it to skyrocket. the poverty rate has reached 40% of the greek population, the unemployed have reached 1.5 million, greece has lost 25% of its gdp, small and medium-sized enterprises have been dissolved, pensions have been cut by 50%, wages have been cut, public property is being sold off to foreign creditors in exchange for a license plate, and yet all this is not enough. you insist on good cooperation with the government and a fourth memorandum, which cuts pensions, reduces the tax-free, grabs the public property of the p.e.i. you impose primary surpluses, that is, installments for defaults of 3.5% for many years, and all this without giving any money, without regulating the debt. what will happen, mr dijsselbloem, to the remaining eur 19.5 billion from the third loan package? what about the money you have to pay back, the european central bank's profits on greek bonds? you're giving less loan capital. so reduce the measures by 25%. the government should also distribute as a social dividend what it pays out because of the over-coverage of the primary surplus, instead of reducing pensions. mr dijsselbloem, the greek people will soon send you the message, because there is another way.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr dijsselbloem and mr moscovici, there is no more time to waste. the eurogroup is due to give its outline of future measures on debt and primary surpluses on 22 may. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. greece has made a tremendous effort and it must be recognized in practice. that's what junker says too. the primary surplus for 2016 closed nine times above the agreed target, forty-two times above the perennially failed forecasts of the international monetary fund. the figures say so, and you admit it, mr dijsselbloem, and you admit it, mr moscovici. the international monetary fund and the european institutions must therefore finally bridge their differences on debt and surpluses so that we can have an agreement on 22 may. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the greek people have paid enough, they have made huge changes over the years, with unemployment, with cuts, with sacrifices. enough of this ping-pong on the backs of the greek people between berlin and the international monetary fund! mr dijsselbloem, how do you, a social democrat, want to go down in history? as the president of the eurogroup who helped to push for a comprehensive package of agreements on 22 may, or for your unfortunate statements on women and drink? you have time to think about it and act on it.
the commission mr president, after seven years of economically bleeding the greeks and carrying out a planned genocide against them by implementing the measures of the memoranda, what rational person still believes in the tragedy of the continuous revisions of the economic adjustment programme for greece? the real aim of the international loan sharks is to impoverish the greeks financially, to force them to tolerate their governments handing over to these loan sharks the subsoil and underwater space of our country, rich in energy resources and precious metals. so the problem of greece is not economic. it's political and it's going to be resolved politically. the greek nationalists will not tolerate what is happening in venezuela in our country. we cannot tolerate the surrender of our sovereignty and the transformation of our country into a third world country in order to save the euro and to enable germany's political and economic elites to dominate europe. finally, i would point out that we cannot tolerate any mr dijsselbloem who disparages and mocks the greek nation, which has given civilization to mankind. he has neither the moral nor the political stature to do so. i therefore demand that he apologise to the greek people for the unacceptable things he has said against them.
the commission mr president, the fact that mr dijsselbloem, who a few weeks ago made provocative statements to the people, is today praising the syriza-anel government for its anti-worker reforms proves that the syriza-anel government, the european union and the international monetary fund are all sitting at the same table to impose new harsh measures against the workers. the syriza-anel government is adding new, unbearable burdens to the already heavy backs of the people by further reducing pensions, tax-free, job jungle, facilitating mass layoffs, complete abolition of the sunday holiday, delivery of energy fillets, ports, airports to businesses. this will be the updated anti-workers' memorandum, the necessary condition of the bloody surpluses for capitalist development, which the people will pay to feed the sacred cow of capital's profitability and its goals, for investments, access to markets, debt settlement, which are foreign and against the popular interests. the so-called countermeasures, which will again be paid for by the workers, concern new privileges for the monopolies and refreshments for the impoverished victims of the anti-people policy. the workers respond to the workers' may day and the general strike afterwards.
the commission mr president, the economic and social costs of managing the greek crisis are growing as the second evaluation of the third programme, originally scheduled for february 2016, is delayed we should remember this the delay is maintaining a climate of insecurity. i would like to point out that the 40 billion euros that left the banks' deposits during the 2015 crisis have not returned to the banks, as savers are still not convinced about the prospects of the greek economy. in addition, a large proportion of small and micro enterprises avoid transactions through the banking system because they have not settled all their debts created by the crisis and are afraid that their revenues will be frozen and they will not be able to continue their operations. the real economy therefore needs a real agreement on the second assessment, which will give real solutions to the big problems.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, mr dijsselbloem, in 2013, when the eurogroup under your presidency had decided to cut the size of cypriot deposits, sowing uncertainty about the safety of deposits across europe, i asked you there in the eurogroup: 'are you incapable or are you serving other objectives?' now, looking at the state of the greek economy, my answer is: you're executing contracts of economic death. together with the willing greek memorandum governments you have imposed economic strangulation and impoverishment on workers and pensioners. you are creating a working middle-age with high unemployment. the hopes of the young greek generation have turned into a nightmare. in the name of debt and reconstruction you have turned greece into a protectorate of the creditors, and consequently plundered public property. but mr dijsselbloem, mr moscovici, we now know: the recovery of the greek economy, the equitable development of greek society and economy is outside the deadly embrace of the memoranda and the eurogroup, outside the nightmarish eurozone and in a break with the neo-liberal undemocratic european union.
s & d) and the madam president, commissioners, seven years ago it became clear that the greek social security system was not viable because of the enormous deficits. the response of the troika was: 'cut pensions, increase contributions and taxes'. it sounds reasonable, and probably a 12-year-old would accept that, too. seven years later, with official unemployment soaring to 24 percent and 34 percent of people living below the poverty line, we are discussing for the 15th time measures to cut pensions and raise contributions and taxes. but the child we mentioned earlier has now gone to university and he has at least learned that work is what supports security and that only job growth ensures a sustainable system. greece needs three reforms: a public administration that curbs any business venture, a tax system geared to growth and a mechanism to crack down on corruption. the greek governments do not do this because they love the client state. but how long will you be satisfied with accounting games? growth, and growth alone, must be your goal.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we are again discussing today the budgetary adjustment programme for greece and the second assessment which calls for a requirement for a brutal 3.5% surplus, which requires the development of china's rates, cuts, further pension cuts, further reduction of the welfare state, privatisations, forced expropriations of public wealth and natural resources, at a time when 36% of greeks are below the poverty line and youth unemployment is above 50%, and as a result provocative contempt for any notion of democracy and constitutional institutions by the introduction of measures, colleagues, by the greek parliament. this is what we are presented with in parliament, the supreme democratic institution of the european union, by the gentleman who considers half of european citizens to be lazy, drunk, womanizing, as the president of an informal extra-institutional body. i wonder if this is the quality of the institutions and the vision for the future that we are proposing to the greek people and to the rest of the peoples of europe. i am sure, madam president, that mrs le pen can thank us for the immense help these policies have given her in her election campaign.
s & d) and the madam president, mr moscovici, mr dijsselbloem, my country is approaching a decade of crisis and a vicious circle of austerity. i wonder if you can enlighten us if someone is to blame in the end because you give us a fictitious image of a final solution every time, thanks to your successful program, while this convenient government continues to vote whatever is asked of it to remain in power. at the same time, the south is spending not only at night but also during the day unimaginable sums on equipment and border guarding for the european union, while companies from major european union countries are buying at bargain prices our trains, our airports, greek land and property. we are also seeing surpluses in greece. but i wonder why we are asking for new measures. you don't think they can be preserved? is it made ? can you tell us who will ultimately take responsibility? you, the imf, schäuble or just a willing government? because otherwise we know who's gonna pay the bill. major reforms and onerous measures have been voted for the next government, while confidence across europe, with data and election results, seems to have been lost and euroscepticism is rising.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial crisis is not a new crisis, but a new crisis. the prime minister will convene the council of political leaders. greece needs a national consensus, a national strategy; to show the care of the good and prudent family man. greece needs huge public and private investments, now that illusions and leftist ideologies are gone, now that the models are not venezuela, chávez, the leftist dictator maduro. now that primary surplus is not accounting for disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now is the time to get through this great crisis at the lowest possible cost.
the commission madam president, mr dijsselbloem, i would sincerely hope that you would have the courage to admit to us that what you have said about the people of the south, and especially about women, is simply unacceptable, and i am sorry that you do not do it and i hope that you will do it while you are still president of the eurogroup. in essence, you are painting a picture of the greek economy based on the photograph of the moment and you avoid putting your finger on the type of the needles, which are nothing but structural changes and the course of their implementation. the reality is quite different: half of young greeks are unemployed, 35.7% of greeks are facing the specter of social exclusion, the health system is collapsing, pension and tax-free cuts are coming and the 2016 primary surplus looks unsustainable, because it is based on one-time measures. the completion of the second review is clearly no guarantee of the prospect of the programme being completed in summer 2018, while your commitment to settle the cost of greek debt has been pending since november 2012. greece needs another policy of tax cuts, spending cuts, implemented by a government committed to reform. but above all you, mr dijsselbloem, and you, mr moscovici, share the responsibility for ensuring that we have full access to the markets in august 2018. we'll all be here, and it looks like no one can rely on a magic picture then.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, mr dijsselbloem, your slanderous statements about drinks and women are proof of the racist prejudice with which you treat the peoples of the european south, presenting them as allegedly helpless. this prejudice makes you unfit to be president of the eurogroup, which should be the presidency of all the member states of the eurozone and not just of the supposedly virtuous northerners. but since you are indifferent to the outcry and refuse to resign, you should at least show practical repentance by promoting the completion of the second evaluation of the greek programme. you must respect the enormous sacrifices of the greek people and proceed to the concretization of the measures to alleviate the greek public debt. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. of course you continue the same failed recipe for the supposed bailout of greece, but as it has been proven so far you have only saved the funds and the bankers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we can assure you that when the greek people choose to have a national government that will not betray their trust, you and all the representatives of the institutions, as we say in greece, will get a leg up. as for your famous statements about women and alcohol, they only describe you.
the commission madam president, mr dijsselbloem, you have insulted my country, you have insulted european women, i would have expected you to recant, because as you know your statements were not misinterpreted; they were simply made public. i will oppose it, to express the following concern of the citizens of my country, and i also address the commissioner, mr moscovici: if you both admit that the country has a surplus and you assume that this surplus will last for years to come, then give an explanation why you impose measures that impoverish society and the greek people, measures such as pension and tax cuts, measures that are not developmental in nature, and why you finally do not contribute to regulating the debt, a promise you have given to my country since november 2012.
the commission madam president, i am not at liberty to mention the name of the head of the eurogroup and i wanted to tell him that on this day, 27 april 1941, the germans of the third reich invaded greece. he held office for three years. a hero of the euphonious koukidis, the like of whom will not exist in the land of the lord, was found, who, wrapped in the greek flag, fell from the rock of the acropolis. self-sacrifice! that is what greek souls are showing today. they are patient because the occupation imposed by germany, the imf and the gentleman is in its seventh year and there is no end to the suicides, the absolute poverty and the selling off of the greek fortune. at some point the greek will raise his head and say, "get out of here, sir, and you owe us and we owe you nothing.
s & d) and the the elections in the netherlands are over. the first round of the french elections is over. what's the next political station we have to skip to get the truth? what is happening with the implementation of the greek programme? do we have to go over the second evaluation a fourth time? what 's taking so long ? what are the specific problems? clearly, say today, to put an end to the montage of brussels and maximus, who see everything very well, very well in greece, but things are going against the interests of our people and every day the sacrifices of the last six years are being squandered.
the commission madam president, i voted against the report on the european year of cultural heritage in protest because the report makes no mention of the return of stolen archaeological treasures to their place of origin, as required by directive 93/7 eec and also by the 1970 unesco convention. madam president, it has been 76 years since the nazi occupation troops entered greece on 27 april 1941, entered athens. during the nazi occupation archaeological treasures were stolen, which are included in the special volume issued in 1946 by the greek ministry of education and in the special report of the british war office. we demand the immediate return of the archaeological treasures stolen by the nazis during the years 1941-1944.
the commission madam president, i voted against the discharge report on the general budget of the european union, and in particular on the european commission, because i believe that the european commission's work is characterised by lack of transparency and mismanagement. at the same time, i would like to raise a wider issue and protest because we voted today on 52 reports on the discharge of the institutions of the european union, and all of this, which is a serious procedure, the debate, the scrutiny, was held yesterday in a debate of a few hours. it is impossible - i am sure - to have a serious control of the functioning of the finances of all the institutions and to be able to give an exemption. i voted against, i did not give any of the institutions a discharge, not least because there is no serious debate, no scrutiny, and we have seen one report voted after another in a procedure which, in my opinion, is an insult to the democratic control which the european parliament must exercise.
the commission madam president, i voted against the 2015 discharge of the european union agency for network and information security enisa and i explain why. the organization was founded and settled in heraklion, crete but from the first moment its leadership wanted to leave heraklion, crete and methoded in various ways, so it basically split the organization into two departments: an administrative department and a technological one, and the technological department transferred it to athens. the administrative department remained in heraklion, in a 4.5-thousand-square-foot facility, where it is housed and hosted at no cost. expenditure has been generated by the decision to relocate enisa or part of it to athens, which entails administrative and building costs. i object to this unacceptable situation! i am not going to give this body a discharge and i believe that the activity of the leadership of this body must be checked immediately.
the commission madam president, what is happening in venezuela today is deeply worrying for all of us here in europe, and we have casualties every day. dead numbered over 26 last month, 437 wounded, 1289 arrests. fourteen journalists have been arrested and 106 have been attacked in the last four weeks. the prisons are full of opposition figures, we have more than 100 political prisoners and this list includes all the opposition leaders. today, madam president, in the european parliament we condemned the ongoing unconstitutional dismantling of the democratic order in venezuela, we called on the venezuelan government and the supreme court to respect the constitution, we called for, among other things, the preservation of the separation and independence of powers and the immediate release of all political prisoners. it's a given. unfortunately not for the group of the european left, which has decided not to sign our resolution, and the question is simple: can european governments share values and objectives with the venezuelan government, maintain elite affinities? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the fight against fraud against the budget of the european union must be intensified, because only in this way can smuggling and various other illegal activities be effectively tackled. as the report states, 75% of all cases reported as fraudulent relate to goods such as tobacco, electrical machinery, footwear, textiles, iron and steel, all of which originate mainly from china, the united arab emirates and ukraine. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. we must tackle this issue as we tackle the smuggling of tobacco, since at least 10 billion euros are raised annually from this illegal activity, which also funds other illegal activities. olaf should also be very effective, particularly in the way ngos use the funds available to the european union to support refugees. the ngos are having a party on the aegean islands at the moment, commissioner, and olaf should intervene, because the money is not going to the refugees either, and there are still problems, and of course with the inhabitants of the aegean, who can no longer stand other refugees and illegal immigrants.
the commission mr president, the fight against fraud is a basic prerequisite for the protection of the european union's financial interests and is the responsibility of all member states. one of the areas in which fraud must be combated is the illicit trafficking and trade in tobacco products, which is carried out on a global scale, involves huge quantities of cigarettes and is responsible for the loss of millions of dollars in revenue to the states and for the risk to the lives of consumers. the greek government, like almost all the governments of the european union, has shown an unexplained and possibly suspicious delay in implementing measures to combat smuggling. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet published a tender for the supply of machines to track tobacco products from the place of production to the place of consumption. in addition, it has imposed taxes on the price of cigarettes and has forced retailers of tobacco products to use electronic payment machines, resulting in banks taking a 1% commission, losing revenue, and pushing people to try to find these products in the illegal trade and thus putting their health at risk. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal trade in human beings, including the introduction of a new anti-smuggling system.
the commission mr president, corruption and the fight against it are a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the state and a basic demand of citizens. the political circle in brussels, however, while aware of this, is at the service of the interlocking and cooperating with the global oligarchic, financial and banking elite. the citizens' trust in the institutions and in the financial, tax and customs administration has been eroded, but the propaganda that the people have been subjected to has sown fear and uncertainty, sustaining this vicious cycle of lawlessness, abuse of power and anarchy. macron in france was touted as an innovator and a crusader against corruption while serving the system as a rothschild executive and hollande minister. the fugitive christophorikos, the siemens scandal fugitive, was protected by the then greek government and the current german government, while mitsotakis, who is claiming the post of prime minister of greece, is directly linked to bribes from the company's black coffers. but very soon the system will stop inventing "macron" and recycling "michotakis". the basic demand of the citizens will be magnified: the stolen from the people and the thieves in prison.
the commission madam president, the so-called european qualifications framework for lifelong learning has been in operation for ten years with the aim of strengthening the eu mechanisms in all member states, so that large companies have plenty of workers trained in one-off skills, others in apprenticeship status with lifelong mobility, and others changing as many as ten occupations in their lives. this constant drift between unemployment and flexible piecework is the reality that shapes capital, the european union and their governments in all member states with the goal of maximizing capitalist profitability. the european union is updating this strategy to include refugees and migrants with the same goal: cheap, flexible and subservient labour for brutal exploitation. in this line, the syriza-anel government, while bringing the fourth slaughterhouse of workers' rights, is congratulated by the european union, because it promotes, among other things, with the label of apprenticeship, subsidies in hot money to employers, which will now even benefit unemployment benefits. the only answer is to organize the workers' popular struggle to put obstacles in the capitalist labor galley, to raise the people. and on this occasion we call on the workers in greece to participate in a massive, decisive nationwide strike on may 17 against the anti-working class cabal of the government, the european union and capital.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, our subject is the 'european qualifications framework for lifelong learning': seven words that cover the shortfall of policies for real employment. we present them as a panacea for unemployment, because we have forgotten full employment. we make them the flag of our politics. but is this the solution to europe's labour market problem? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. i propose that we change our priorities: first, bold spending and employment, otherwise the rapid change in the european framework for vocational qualifications may act as a mechanism for increasing unemployment.
the commission madam president, the european union has created an area of free movement for workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to do so in the near future. because if there is no such recognition, they hire all the lowest paid workers. so it is in the interests of the workers themselves to have this recognition and to go through with the process. i would say, of course, that the report places a great deal of emphasis on recognising the qualifications of refugees and migrants. it is clear from this that the aim is to create a reserve army which will actually reduce the wages of the workers themselves in the european union, a european union which is full of armies of unemployed people.
the commission mr president, food waste is estimated at $1.7 trillion a year. it's what many here call food waste. at the same time, 793 million of our fellow humans are undernourished around the globe. 700 million people live below the poverty line. 23.7% of the european union's population, 118 million, are now at risk of poverty. at the same time, by 2050, we'll have 9.7 billion people. the question is, how is the problem of poverty being dealt with? and this is countered by having another model, a fair distribution of the wealth produced, because both wealth is produced and food is produced capable of feeding all our fellow citizens. so we need a different policy, a fair distribution of wealth.
the european union is a major producer of food, and it is not just the european union that is responsible for this. the tragedy is that millions of tonnes of this food are either thrown away or destroyed, polluting the environment, when it could be used to feed millions of people in the third world who are malnourished and starving, and to meet the needs of europe's homeless, unemployed and other poor. i'm afraid that's not possible. on the contrary, in greece, when the party to which i belong, golden dawn, with the help of donations from meps, mps, members and friends, raised money and bought food to distribute to hungry greeks, the government criminalized this activity. in other words, if anyone wants to give food to hungry greeks, he risks going to prison. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission madam president, the customs union is indeed a key pillar of the european functioning itself. this means that the commission is working in partnership with the member states. it is also necessary to simplify customs procedures and to enable and facilitate electronic commerce. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted. we have tax evasion, we have smuggling at the same time, all this is compounded by the various free zones that exist. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover all fraudulent transactions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national e-government centres. it will facilitate trade, reduce administrative burden in the production process itself. this also means a strengthening of crossborder e-government. of course, we have to look at how there will be data protection and security issues. at the same time, it's important to have the exchange of legal information, the interconnection of the public and private sectors. it is important to have access to electronic services, in a phase in which we are all living, it is impossible to imagine the very functioning of the economy, but also of the administration itself, without the use of the internet. it is therefore crucial that we move effectively to e-government.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step which we must take to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the directive. the troika mandates include measures for 2019-2020 of eur 4,6 billion, which will reach eur 4,9 billion in 2021. measures that undermine already reduced and meagre pensions, as well as the tax-free, opening the way to tax evasion of the greek people. at the same time, the famous countermeasures are a sham, which will only be implemented with the agreement of the troika and on the condition that the greek people are wiped out and the country's power plants and ports are sold out. but the greek people are preparing to send a loud message of resistance and struggle to the troika and the government with their strike on wednesday, because there is another way.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter. all this is done with the declared aim of restoring the greek state's solvency and being able to borrow on the capital markets. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to make a proper assessment of the budgetary situation, and that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the situation in the member states. the other euro-zone member states must do this as the international monetary fund has asked them to do. it is hypocritical for the lenders to ask for the fund's participation in the programme and the implementation of its demands for austerity measures on the greek side, but themselves to delay the debt relief they have repeatedly promised. give greece a real shot.
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. the slaughter of pensions, wages, unemployment benefits, heating, disability, tax evasion and the poorest, mass layoffs, abolition of sunday holidays, collective agreements, the right to strike, employer lock-out, privatization of everything. the other poor funded countermeasures to extreme poverty, if the slaughterhouse measures succeed, are tiny compared to the pro-capital countermeasures with new tax breaks and subsidies. new democracy and the rest of the bourgeois opposition, demagogically, do not vote for the measures, but vow to implement them. capital, more and more won, the people, more and more lost. that's why he shouldn't choose a butcher, but end the slaughter himself. the strike on may 17th should be the beginning of an escalation of popular resistance to the continuing eradication of evil: that fewer and fewer people steal the sweat of more and more, with the bourgeois governments and the european union as tools.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of moving towards a europe of peace and security. the aegean islands are now home to thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants, conflicts between different immigrants and all this now, in summer, when there must be calm to develop the tourist season. of the famous 66,400 relocations from greece, according to your report, only 11,339 have been carried out, i.e. 17% of the relocations, when the programme is due to expire in four months. the commission has not taken any action against a number of countries which refuse to relocate. even germany has not paid its debts. only 12% of relocations have been made in this country. in france only 22% of the relocations have been agreed. so, what's it gonna be? will the relocation proceed? italy and greece cannot take it anymore. there are now a lot of refugees who have to be resettled from these countries to the rest of the european union.
madam president, the european union's decisions on a refugee resettlement programme have been largely unenforceable because of the unwillingness of some member states to comply with them. according to european commission figures, less than one fifth of the target for relocating refugees from italy and greece has been met. it must be understood that solidarity is a unified concept enshrined in the european treaties and constitutes a commitment to the behaviour of all member states without exception, and not a voluntary choice. the council's decision on refugees sets out the common position and cooperation of the member states, but in practice we do not see the necessary solidarity. these facts, combined with complaints against certain member states of discrimination in the reception of refugees on the grounds of their nationality or religion, do not respect the principles and values of the union and call into question its cohesion. the speed of the resettlement of refugees is necessary, and at the same time we must create a fairer and, above all, more effective framework for the reception and distribution of refugees in the years ahead. we need immediate action, not excuses.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, we know that despite the efforts made, the programme is failing. and it works for three main reasons: for those member states that don't accept any refugees, for those member states that make selective acceptance of applications based on the profile of refugees, for those member states that want two and four months to respond to applications. in practice, we see that the results do not justify us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also aware, commissioner, that the eu-turkey agreement is also problematic. since the agreement was signed last march, 23,000 new refugees and migrants have arrived in greece, while only 1,000 have returned to turkey. the problem is big and can only be tackled by very important decisions. the commission has already taken a number of decisions, and i am sure that the council will take them into account, and i hope that the council will take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
madam president, commissioner, my colleagues have analysed with great precision the responsibilities of the member states and the commission for the delay in its relocation. i would like to make a specific proposal today. in greece at the moment, we are hosting just over two thousand unaccompanied children: half in special accommodation structures, and the rest in safe zones inside the camps. a part of them, less than a third, are eligible for resettlement as refugee children from syria, iraq and so on, and it is a shame that a union of five hundred million people has not been able to find a safe and permanent place for a few hundred children who have fled the war zones. i am not talking about the promises to relocate the 160 000 refugees, nor about the tens of thousands who are waiting, with all the paperwork in hand, for the invitation that is not coming soon. i'm talking about a few hundred children, a very few, who need to have security and stability in their lives. i would therefore propose that, in the context of the conference on refugees which, as president tajani has said, will take place on 21 june in brussels, we commit ourselves to a declaration: 'children first, today! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in greece is not so bad as it is in the other member states, and to demand from the member states a small but important step: that by the autumn no minors entitled to be relocated are in greece or italy. a small step for relocation, but a big step for the lives of these children. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to help us to put this humanitarian message into practice: 'children first, now!'.
madam president, perhaps the commissioner responsible for immigration, mr avramopoulos, is concerned with political survival, because the complacent attempt to show that the relocation programme is working and is successful is only laughable. the initial target of 160,000 people to be relocated has been reduced to 98,000, and it is very likely that it will eventually not exceed 34,000, with a deadline of late september. in this way, the relocation of some 18 000 people in almost two years will be presented as a success. evidence of the absurd design of the program of unsatisfactory deterrent measures and the doomed alleged control of migration flows is the increase in illegal immigration by 36% in italy in 2017, with a minimal percentage of illegal immigrants meeting the relocation criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. perhaps then ngos would not be allowed to work with smugglers, but above all to blackmail europe from erdogan's turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe will soon become a colony of african and asian illegal immigrants.
s & d) and the madam president, two years have passed since your proposal to set up a relocation programme. we welcomed her back then as a show of solidarity. we were hoping that the member states and the commission would finally understand that the management of refugees is not just a matter for the countries of the region. despite your good intentions, the result is not what you expected. only 12,700 of the 63,000 refugees originally planned have now been transferred from greece to other countries of the union. at the same time, of the 62,000 trapped in greece, 50,000 are on the mainland and the rest on the islands of the eastern aegean. i would like to ask you what will happen to the countries which refuse to participate in this programme? will they be subject to the same sanctions? also, after the summer when the decisions expire, what are your plans? what about the countries on the external borders? finally, this debate is taking place in the wake of publicity reports that say we have an increase in cases of sexual exploitation of refugees. i therefore support the proposal by mr miltiadis kirkus to give immediate priority to young refugees for resettlement.
mr president, the countries of the european union have been violently attacked by globalisation, and the peoples have suddenly realised that their national, social, economic, religious and cultural existence is in danger of being destroyed. so we have to react. first of all, the states must strengthen their internal cohesion, preserving the principles and values of their history and culture. the european union must also change its present form. the european parliament must be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union, and it must be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union. the european union's member states must cooperate on an equal footing and in solidarity so that the european union can develop an economic policy which will enable it to conclude agreements with other states which will be beneficial to it. it must work with the other world powers to stop wars, stop illegal immigration, develop third countries and, finally, enable the european union to maintain its values. we must, in order to rein in and rein in globalisation, accept any positive aspects of it and control them, because as the ancient greeks said, "there is no pure evil".
mr president, vice-president katainen, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss how to distribute the benefits of globalisation, but above all we must respond to the fears of those excluded from globalisation. the figures in the commission's reflection paper illustrate the scale of the great challenge of globalisation. one billion euros in trade, 14,000 jobs. at the same time, however, 45% of europeans consider globalisation to be a threat, while 53% consider it to be a danger to their national identity. we must, in my view, proceed immediately. firstly, to regulate the european union's relations with its international partners and to strengthen the system of control and sanctions against illegal activities by foreign companies on our territory and internationally. secondly, the substantial exchange of good practice between member states in the new sectors of the economy, such as e-commerce, the circular economy, new materials, so as to increase overall competitiveness. thirdly, education must be future-oriented, with an emphasis on the international activity of our pupils and students. and fourthly, we should have specific indicators for the member states using funds to tackle unemployment, so that we can see how the unemployed are being integrated into production and how sustainable jobs are being created. only then can we encourage people to overcome their fear of a future they cannot plan.
mr president, the commission has been slow to wake up to the adverse effects of neoliberal globalisation, which has literally dismantled the economies of the states, led to armies of the poor and the unemployed, increased the social excluded. it led to business relocation, to outsourcing, it made the rich richer, it led to the formation of triangular relationships, to tax evasion and tax avoidance. because that's the reality. and you must understand that you must return to the principle of community preference, which was a basic principle on which the eec and subsequently the european union were built. the european industry should be supported, as should the agricultural sector. we should also be fighting for fair trade and not have this ttip and ceta nonsense that you insist on. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. there are countries like china where prisoners work. there is child labour and we tolerate this process of free trade. this situation must be brought to an end.
the question is "blue card". i would like to ask the honourable member whether what she has said about the crematories and so on in syria is a figment of her imagination or whether she has proof, so that we do not say things like that in this house without proof.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. have mercy! was it not the european union that triggered article 42 and gave britain, france and others free rein to bomb syria with thousands of dead and refugees? it seems that instead of blessing, a curse is haunting the countries that have energy sources and transportation routes. the middle east, the balkans, the ukraine, they smell like gunpowder. the border is being redrawn. the european union is militarizing itself to be, as it says, 'a global presence'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted by the excessive use of fishing vessels. the peoples are sacrificed for the interests of the monopolies, whether in anti-worker policies or in wars. the greek government syriza anel is inviting nato to the aegean, upgrading us and nato military bases such as souda, that is, launching attacks on the peoples of the region, such as the us missile attack in syria with dozens of dead. the only agreed brexit issue is securing british bases in cyprus. the peoples of europe must respond by a concerted struggle against imperialist designs, a response which will be heard loudly in the demonstrations in brussels at the nato summit on 25 may.
i shall not go into the causes of the tragedy in the region, nor will i go into the historical responsibility we bear for it. i am unable to draw any useful conclusions from the eu strategy. the eu's response to the refugee crisis has revealed to the fullest extent both the lack of solidarity and the absence of political will on the part of the eu. i am therefore describing the minimum framework which will justify the eu's role and reason for involvement. we must ensure that the solution and the prospect are freely shaped by the syrian people. after six years of devastating war it would be inhuman and dangerous to stability to allow it to be blackmailed financially and to be invaded by the 'democrats' reformers, à la iraq. beyond grandstanding about the return of refugees, let us give those who remain the sense that at least they can hope for a better future than the disastrous present that economic and geopolitical interests in the region have reserved for them.
mr president, in doing a little research on the current developments in syria, i have found some very interesting facts which i must bring to the house. we are obviously condemning the islamic caliphate in the strongest terms and it seems that in a year or two this threat will have been eliminated. but the west chose to turn against the legitimate government of syria, to arm and finance the opposition, that is, the terrorist gangs that were misleadingly using the front of the supposedly free syrian army. today, these gangs are part of hayat tahrir al-sham. this is the new name of the al nusra front, which is al qaeda in syria. neither the us nor canada has yet listed tahrir al-sham as a terrorist organization, which makes me wonder about their true motives, especially considering the incursion of british and american forces into syrian territory yesterday. i therefore call on the european parliament to condemn any support for any terrorist organisation and to enter into direct talks with the legitimate government of syria, with the sole aim of restoring peace to this long-suffering country and not promoting geopolitical interests.
mr president, the situation in syria is indeed tragic, with thousands of victims and millions of refugees. but we have not heard a real strategy from the european union, which would lead to normality, which would really make europe play a more important role. instead, we see that europe has let saudi arabia, qatar and turkey literally take the fall. turkey, which is constantly smuggling oil with isis. turkey, which is arming isis. we didn't see any real action to hit isis. on the contrary, we are allowing turkey to dismantle the kurds at a time when it is necessary to create a kurdish state in the region. we believe that the un should be more involved in the peace process and that greece and cyprus, which have historical ties to the region and in particular to syria, should be involved.
the european union, as a strategic partner and financier, must be firmly involved in the peace process in syria. but this involvement must be honest and impartial. it is not possible for it to support the syrian opposition openly and to demand to be seen as a proper and objective partner by the assad government. also, in a multinational conflict in syria, you can't just look for war criminals on the government side. besides, her involvement must be within the bounds of reason. it cannot call for no-fly zones and safe zones on the ground at this time, while ground and air operations are still being conducted to defeat isis. for the european union to be decisively and successfully involved in syria, it must pursue a policy free from encumbrances and servicing of expediencies and it must decide to be involved itself and not let others carry out projects on its behalf.
madam president, the persecution, imprisonment, murder and violent islamization of christians living in the middle east can be compared to the martyrdom of the early years of christianity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same treatment as the rest of the world. on a visit to maaloula, syria, i witnessed firsthand the destruction of priceless relics by islamists at the historic st. thekla monastery. i should note that christians and monuments have been subjected to islamic barbarism while no muslims were harmed. in isis slave markets, a young christian or yazidi girl, 10 to 20 years old, is sold for about $150 while girls aged 1 to 9 are sold for $200. those who fight for multiculturalism and open borders should ask themselves what human dignity and loyalty are worth. no one needs to accuse me of being islamophobic and intolerant. i would rather not accept the slaughter and humiliation of christians by islamists than the political correctness that is promoted. in the middle east, christians are being driven to extinction. europe will now have to take its turn.
madam president, the situation of christians in the middle east is a nightmare. we saw it recently in the jihadist attacks against the coptic church in egypt. the jihadists are slaughtering the christian populations in syria and elsewhere in a kind of religious purge. in muslim countries, persecution is systematic and planned. in fact, it is a different kind of ethnic cleansing, a genocide. the european union must be more decisive in protecting the christian populations and taking measures to ensure their safe return to their homes. on the other hand, we note that saudi arabia demands that mosques be allowed to operate in europe, when it does not allow christian churches to operate on its territory, especially in mecca. we must therefore be more determined to prevent this holocaust of christian populations in the middle east.
mr president, there are over 500,000 refugees in kenya at the moment. of these, 245,000 refugees are literally crammed into the five zones of the dadaab refugee camp. they're mostly from somalia. dadaab is a camp, a refugee camp, which was started in 1991 and the efforts of the jihadist organization al-shabad to create problems in the area and to effectively dismantle the camp are well known. today, the situation in dadaab is desperate. thousands of refugees are piling up and measures must be taken to support their existence there, to support this camp, to give aid to kenya, which is really at this stage also facing problems, as we have a severe drought in the area. at the same time, the return of refugees to somalia should be facilitated for those who so wish. in somalia, which really needs to be stabilized, because today at least 25,000 people are at risk of dying from cholera.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the report on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in 2014 is long overdue and is exhausted by formalities relating to the participation of national parliaments in european union legislation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained, and that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the budgetary situation. subsidiarity is violated because these programmes do not simply formulate budgetary objectives, leaving the way to achieve them to the member state concerned, but also dictate the means of achieving the objectives, and this in areas outside budgetary management, such as the deregulation of the labour market. and proportionality is violated by imposing an excessive dose of austerity, resulting in recession and unemployment with devastating social consequences. the union must change course and put its principles into practice.
mr president, i have asked for the catch-the-eye procedure to be used to speak on this matter. i have already given a note to the secretariat four hours ago. i was just here, and i signaled to the secretary and reaffirmed that i wanted to speak. i don't see why i'm not getting the word on catch-the-eye on this.
in writing. we consider the debate on the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality to be very important. the principle of subsidiarity is an important principle which helps to bring eu decisions closer to the citizen. in this way, local and regional authorities and national parliaments must play an important role in the very functioning of the eu. this strengthens the democratic functioning of the european project and reinforces the tendency towards decentralisation of powers. the national parliaments, by virtue of the relevant protocol to the treaty of lisbon, are granted the well-known rights of the yellow and orange cards, which, although they do not exercise them very often, nevertheless constitute rights which make national parliaments important actors in the field of the union's activities. in addition, with the proposal for the so-called green card, national parliaments could also be involved in the legislative initiative process, thus asking the commission to take specific legislative action in areas where national parliaments will decide each time whether the union itself needs to be involved.
the impact of technology on the future of the financial sector is decisive. the european union must therefore define a framework for its operation which ensures technological neutrality, proportionality and access for new entrants to the market. at the same time, the operating framework must serve consumers as well as investors by reducing the costs of providing financial services. the issue of security is also crucial, especially when it comes to central securities depositories in an era where we are witnessing constant cyber attacks on a daily basis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the crisis. the report also analyses the fact that by 2020, europe will face a shortage of up to 825 000 professionals in the sector.
madam president, despite the injections of optimism about the future of the european union that have been heard here, the sharp contradictions are present and are intensifying. the council's brexit guidelines aim to shield the european union's position in the international competition of its groups with great britain, the united states and china. whether trade deals are to be made between the european union and great britain before or after the settlement of their accounts has nothing to do with the interests of the people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. moreover, in the name of new sacrifices to favour british capital after brexit, ballot boxes are being set up in britain to extract the consent of the british people to its new slaughter with new anti-working class measures. similar measures are applied in the european union. only by overthrowing capitalist power or by disengaging a country from the european union or nato and any imperialist alliance can it free the people from the shackles of exploitation.
the european council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the european parliament's opinion. once again we have heard great words calling for the continuation of the same policy, 'business as usual'. the european council has also expressed its concern at the lack of progress in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and the fact that the european union is not yet ready to take action on the basis of the maastricht treaty. the people of europe, mr juncker, are calling for a change in the production model. they are calling for a fair distribution of the wealth produced in the european union, for social justice, for a social europe and for the abandonment of austerity, because only then will there be no more armies of unemployed and millions of poor people. the citizens of europe, mr tusk, are demanding a europe of solidarity, a europe of nations and countries, a europe which respects the sovereignty of its member states, a europe of peoples and not of banks and creditors, a europe which supports the principle of community preference and abandons globalisation, ttip and ceta, which are leading millions of european citizens to the margins.
madam president, the post-brexit negotiations will enable the european union to protect, among other things, the rights of its approximately three million citizens who live, study and work in the united kingdom. these people are, overwhelmingly, young and they are afraid that their lives will be ruined. they feel very insecure and that is precisely why they must be protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same will of course apply to british citizens living in other countries of the european union. finally, as regards some of the positions that have been expressed here, namely that nationalists have been defeated, while in all the countries where elections have been held these parties have either increased their numbers or have many times doubled them, this view is a strange form and concept of mathematics, so unrealistic that if the ancient greek mathematicians, pythagoras and euclid, two and a half thousand years ago had taken it into account, they would probably have made their own mathematical exit in order to preserve their dignity.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i will speak on behalf of president juncker and the commission on the preparations for the upcoming 43rd g7 summit. this is the sixth time that italy has taken over the rotating g7 presidency, and every time it has hosted leaders in some of the finest cities italy and europe have to offer. venice, naples, genoa, l’aquila and taormina will be no exception. this year’s leaders’ meeting will have a new and different feel to it. there will be new and fresh faces around the table and together they will tackle some new and not-so-new questions, many of which go to the very heart of the debate on harnessing and shaping globalisation which we had yesterday in this house. the eu’s position, going into the g7, is very clear. for us, working together with our biggest partners around the world in a rules-based system is a necessity. we believe in open societies and multilateral solutions, we believe in free and fair rules-based trade, and we see the benefits that it brings. around one-third of our national income comes from trade with the rest of the world. for the eu, global trade has boosted eu economic growth, with every eur 1 billion of additional exports supporting 14 000 jobs. cheaper imports benefit poorer households first and foremost, but it is not just about economics. the wider need to work together on issues which affect the whole world has become more acute, even since the g7 last met in japan in 2016. whether it be fighting climate change, tax evasion or international terrorism, whether it be promoting trade links, sustainable development or global economic growth, the questions of today are global in their very nature. the g7 summit will be a crucial moment to deepen our cooperation in all of these areas, but we cannot ignore some of the drawbacks of a more interconnected world. we need to tackle them head-on, because many people around europe and in other parts of the world are concerned. they worry about high levels of inequality, job losses, and factory closures. they see identities, traditions and ways of living changing in front of their eyes. we have to respond to those concerns. that was the thinking behind the ideas presented in our reflection paper on harnessing globalisation. we are not naïve free-traders; we believe in open competition based on level playing fields and that is why, when we had to, we have shown our teeth with anti-dumping measures in response to market distortions or unfair practices. we will not hesitate to do so again and, in order to better equip ourselves, we will need to accelerate our efforts to equip the union with modernised tools to tackle unfair trade. but europe must also make the positive case for its place in a global world. when others step back from free trade, the european union must step forward. partners such as japan, mexico, mercosur and india are willing to do likewise. take for example the ambitious eu-japan deal that we are negotiating. this free trade agreement would send a powerful signal to the rest of the world that two of the largest economies are resisting protectionism, and that openness to trade and investment remains one of the best tools to harness and shape globalisation and create more economic growth and jobs. eu exporters to japan still have to pay close to eur 1 billion annually on customs tariffs and the vast majority of these tariffs would be removed with a trade agreement. eu exports to japan could increase by more than a third. at the same time, more than 600 000 jobs in the eu are linked to exports to japan, with japanese companies alone employing more than half a million people. these are compelling reasons why we aim to reach an agreement as soon as possible and, in any case before the end of the year. together we must make sure that the rules of the game best serve and protect our citizens and our societies. that is the message the european union must bring to taormina and to our partners from across the world. that is what the european union will fight for at every level.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, good morning to you all. i would like to thank you for the opportunity to intervene on the subject of the preparation of the g7 summit which will take place in italy next week. the g7 leaders, as well as presidents tusk and juncker, who will represent the european union, will be faced with difficult discussions on various topics of global importance. the international political environment is currently particularly charged, and the truth is that global cooperation can no longer be taken for granted. i refer in particular to the political transition in the united states, which seems to present us with challenges even with respect to basic policy principles which were, until recently, well rooted in the g7. i believe that the mission of european leaders is clear. the aim is to secure the g7’s commitment to keep the global economy open and keep multicultural multilateral cooperation on track. it is also crucial to give a clear signal that securing balanced and inclusive growth remains a top priority. even if the global economy is showing positive momentum, political uncertainty surrounding the outlook is still very high. against this background, i believe that the g7 should, in particular, confirm its determination to work together through strong, multilateral institutions, confirm the agreement to use all policy tools, fiscal monetary and structural, to strengthen the recovery and foster inclusiveness, and also to better share the benefits of growth and globalisation. but allow me to expand on a selection of issues of particular relevance to us. i will refer, in turn, to trade, climate, migration and foreign policy matters. on trade, it should be the european union’s priority to confirm the g7’s longstanding view in favour of open trade and multilateralism. indeed, as recalled by the european council of 10 march, the eu remains strongly committed to a robust trade policy and an open and rules-based multilateral trading system, with a central role for the wto. the eu will also continue to engage actively with international trade partners, advancing on all ongoing negotiations for ambitious and balanced free trade agreements. i may add that, regarding the latter, the european council has welcomed your positive vote on the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and looks forward to its provisional application. as you know, in this house there are strong concerns over the negative effects of trade, economic integration and technological change. we have to take these grievances seriously. however, the solution is certainly not to close our economies. instead, we need to improve the daily lives of citizens by ensuring that the benefits of globalisation are more widely shared. beyond that, we must also be able to better communicate the actual benefits of trade to the wider public. this is also something for the g7 to consider. on climate change, the global community needs to act urgently and move forward with the implementation of the paris agreement. the european union is committed to ambitious global action against climate change and we insist on maintaining global ownership of the paris agreement. the eu, and its members, are playing their full part in implementing the paris agreement, both through the development of our domestic policies and in keeping to our commitment to global solidarity. in this context, it is also worth noting that, on 6 march, the foreign affairs council resolved to reinvigorate eu climate diplomacy and to maintain climate change as a strategic priority in diplomatic dialogues. the paris agreement is a major achievement of the international community. it is proving, and it needs to prove, that the transition to climate resilience and low emissions economies, is irreversible. progress on ratification has been extraordinary, making it possible for the agreement to enter into force less than a year after the cop21 in paris. in parallel, countries have already started to implement their climate policies, while non-state action by cities, businesses, investors and civil society has continued to expand. the council is aware that climate will be one of the most challenging issues at the g7 table, particularly in view of the positions expressed by the new us administration. my third point is on migration. dealing with the migration crisis has been at the core of the political debate in the european union, including here in the european parliament. naturally, we tend to focus on our crisis in our part of the world, but managing migration is not a european phenomenon, nor solely a european responsibility. it is a global responsibility, requiring collective solutions that are in full respect of our obligations under international law. the g7 is a privileged forum to forge partnerships and launch collective initiatives for an equitable and fair sharing of responsibility. the areas on which we can work together with g7 partners include assistance to most—affected countries of transit, resettlement efforts, the exchange of best practices on return and readmission, as well as increased cooperation on the fight against smuggling and trafficking. we are also committed to taking an active part in the follow-up to the un summit on addressing large movements of refugees and migration, held in september last year. the eu intends to play a prominent role in the process leading to the establishment of the un global compact on migration and refugees in 2018. we ask all g7 members to engage equally in the consultation phase, as well as in the negotiating phase next year. before concluding let me make a few additional remarks on foreign policy matters. the summit will address a number of issues relating to our neighbourhood. on syria, we should stress that no effort can be spared to bring the syrian conflict to an end. all parties, in particular syria and its supporters, must allow humanitarian access to all people in need, and all parties must ensure full compliance with the ceasefire. in libya, it is urgent to advance on the part of inclusive political dialogue and national reconciliation in the framework of the libyan political agreement. on a more positive note, one can mention iran. we support the joint comprehensive plan of action on the iran nuclear issues, which is an important contribution to the international non-proliferation regime. continued and full implementation of this plan of action is essential to build confidence that iran’s nuclear programme is exclusively peaceful in nature. as for the situation in ukraine, the eu continues to stand united in the conviction that the conflict can only be solved by diplomatic means. it is necessary to ensure full respect for international law, and especially the legal obligation to respect ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence. we condemn the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia and we reaffirm our policy of its non-recognition, as well as that of sanctions against those involved. the duration of these restrictive measures is clearly linked to russia’s complete implementation of the minsk agreements.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, the g7 summit must address the major challenges facing the world economy, such as the adverse effects of globalisation, poverty, unemployment and the sovereign debt crisis. the g7 must make a decisive start on the settlement of the alleged greek debt. a debt that is shameful and illegal, since it was created by the collusion of lenders and a local greek oligarchy and the borrowed funds were not allocated to the benefit of the greek people and the country. the g7 must realize that the greek people will not tolerate the method of the lenders to place the burden on the backs of the greek family in order to pay any losses the lenders may incur from converting interest rates from floating to fixed. we remind the g7 that the greek people are being severely tested by the huge flows of migrants. the g7 must realise that its decades-long policy of open markets and free trade has left millions of citizens on the margins.
madam president, the union's participation in the g7 summit is totally unexplained. the union has no state, no elected government, and the tragic thing is that any agenda it may present is invalid for two reasons: - firstly, such an agenda has no moral and democratic legitimacy if the european parliament has not been informed and has not approved the agenda. - i know . secondly, four of the seven members of the g7 are also members of the union, namely germany, france, italy and the united kingdom, unless the union has a different agenda from that of its member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. if the policy of the european union imposes memoranda and impoverishes peoples, demands austerity and fiscal sacrifices, keeps banks profitable at the expense of citizens and serves globalization by abolishing national affairs, identities and borders, it is dishonest and reprehensible to speak in such terms.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your comments, all of which were noted by the presidency of the council. as you know, the presidency does not participate in or attend the g7 but the european union is represented by the commission. as i said earlier, these are challenging times, on several fronts, and most of your comments confirm this: that we are living through challenging times, especially on account of still high geo-political and political uncertainty. i therefore look forward to a strong message of confidence and reassurance by g7 leaders as well as to their guidance. we need to preserve the spirit of cooperation in the g7 and also to continue to provide multilateral answers to the challenges we face. this also means maintaining and building on the achievements of the past and not giving in to protectionism and isolation. finally, i believe that it is through cooperation and working together that we can aspire to tackle the issues that are of concern for our citizens and our respective countries.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, to be very concise and short, i would like to thank honourable members very much for their comments and remarks. most of them were very supportive of our agenda. the next g7 meeting should, first and foremost, be about revitalising multilateralism. we have not lost it completely yet, but we have seen some tendencies, at least in rhetoric, to move away from multilateralism, and this is a very dangerous direction. that is why our agenda is so strongly linked to strengthening multilateralism. many members mentioned that implementation of cop 21 should be one of the priorities, and we fully agree. this agreement has already been agreed and now it is a matter of implementation. a bigger global challenge than climate change could not be imagined, and that is why we need a real commitment from the leaders to implement it. finally, there is a whole range of issues, like the fight against terrorism or tax evasion, which must be addressed in global fora, but i hope that our leaders will send a strong message in favour of rules-based trade, because that is the way to govern globalisation. it is the way to harness and shape globalisation. without rules-based trade we cannot include important values like environmental or social values in trade. this is the way in which we can enhance economic growth in a sustainable manner and make sure that our economic growth is translated to job creation too.
secretary-general of the united nations. – mr president, thank you very much for your invitation and this opportunity to address the european parliament. i have been a parliamentarian in my own country for 23 years, and during three i was with your neighbours in the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. so allow me to say, dear colleagues: the united nations was created after the second world war exactly because the world wanted to avoid another tragedy of the same dimension. but i believe this was exactly the main motivation for the creation of the european communities – with one very important difference: the european communities and the european union are clearly the most successful project of peace sustainability in the world since the beginning of history. and that is why i want to express here my very deep gratitude and appreciation for the strong commitment of the european union and all its bodies to multilateralism, and for the very generous and extremely important contribution you give in development cooperation, in humanitarian aid, and also in the key central aspects of peace and security that are the core of the united nations action. (applause)you see the european union involved around libya. you see the european union involved funding the amisom mission of the african union in somalia. we see the european union in both financial support and training in situations from the central african republic or mali, and we look forward to the support of the european union for the initiative of the neighbours of mali, the g5 sahel. european contribution is today an absolutely essential part of what is necessary to make the un effective, and i want to express my deep gratitude for that. (applause)dear colleagues, it would be possible to come here and make the case that the world has never been better. it is obvious that globalisation and technological progress have in the last decades created the conditions for an enormous increase in global wealth, for a meaningful improvement in the leading conditions of the majority of the population, even for a very strong reduction of the number of absolute poor – probably the chinese contribution being essential for that. and some might even say, looking for instance at the number of soldiers killed in the battlefield, that this is the most peaceful period in human history. now these indicators might be true, but they are far from revealing the whole truth, and i think it is important for us to recognise that we are facing a number of unprecedented challenges that require the eu and the un to work together. allow me to mention briefly four of them. first, conflicts. we are seeing a multiplication of new conflicts in the last few years, and old conflicts seem never to die, be it in afghanistan, somalia or the democratic republic of congo. but the truth is that, not only do we have a multiplication of conflicts, but they change in nature. we practically no longer have wars between countries, even if there are some threats looming on the horizon, but most of the conflicts are internal – many of them linked to fragilities in the countries, but being internal, they quickly have a regional dimension and sometimes even a global dimension. at the same time, they tend to be asymmetric, more and more complex, more and more interlinked, and more linked with the new threat of global terrorism in the world. if one looks at the situation from nigeria to mali, to libya, to somalia, to syria, iraq, yemen, afghanistan – all these conflicts are becoming more and more interlinked. you see fighters going from one to another and then some of them going back to their countries of origin and potentially becoming threats to the security of those countries of origin, and we see these conflicts becoming more and more interlinked. they are indeed today a very relevant threat to our global security, wherever we live. at the same time, it is clear that power relations in the world became less obvious, and with power relations less obvious, it seems that there is no respect, and impunity and unpredictability became the name of the game. in this context, when one looks at the present trends of conflict, it is absolutely essential to create the conditions to reverse these trends, and for that it is clear we need to strengthen multilateral capacity to address conflicts, to solve conflicts and to prevent and sustain peace. and this is an area where the european cooperation with the united nations is absolutely crucial. we need to strengthen our own capacity to solve many of the conflicts around the world. but that forces us to look into their nature. look at syria. these conflicts are conflicts where nobody is winning: everybody is losing. and not only is everybody is losing from the point of view of the citizens of the country – the enormous suffering of the syrian people – but we see the impact on the destabilisation of the region. and with syria, we see syria clearly as one of the feeding factors of global terrorism. now, the point is that we need to create the conditions to make those that are parties to the conflict, but especially those that have an influence on the parties to the conflict, to understand that, indeed, these are conflicts where nobody is winning, everybody is losing, and in which the contradictions of interest that might interest are much smaller than the absolute need to put an end to this nonsense and to eliminate these terrible threats for our own global security. (applause)and there, as i said, we need to strengthen the capacity of the united nations, both in conflict resolution – in preventing conflict – and sustaining peace, our new most important priority. but we will never be able to do it without a very strong support and commitment from the european union. a strong and united europe is an absolutely fundamental pillar of a strong and effective united nations, and this is a very clear message i would like to address to you all. (applause) but in these conflicts we also see horrible violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law, and that is why i would like to mention the second challenge, and it relates to the fact that we see the human rights agenda losing ground to the national sovereignty agenda. that should not make sense. national sovereignty is a central pillar of the united nations charter, and indeed national sovereignty is reinforced when countries and governments are able to protect their citizens and to preserve human rights in their territories. but unfortunately we have seen national sovereignty many times being invoked to justify the lack of capacity of the international community to address the terrible human rights violation challenges that we see in several parts of the world. it is my belief that we need to mobilise a broader coalition for human rights, and the broader coalition must be able to understand that we only stress national sovereignty by strongly promoting and protecting human rights all over the world. but for that coalition to be effective, i think we need two conditions. first, we need to have a comprehensive view of human rights – civil and political rights, but also economic, social and cultural rights. and second, it is important not to be biased. it is important not to have double standards or even agendas. i think it is absolutely crucial to understand that human rights are a value in themselves and they should not be used at the service of other political projects. (applause)to be very frank, if we want to champion human rights, we need to have moral authority. the recent migration and refugee crisis in the world has undermined to a certain extent the moral authority of several countries around the world to champion human rights in an effective way. this is why i want to say how important it is from my perspective, the strong commitment of the european union together with us in making sure that we are able to re-establish the international protection regime for refugees in line with international law, and to have europe strongly engaged in a positive and constructive dialogue in the preparation of the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration that i hope will be approved by the general assembly of the united nations in 2018. in relation to this i would like to make a few comments. first, it is essential that development cooperation policies are linked to our concerns about human mobility. it is essential that development cooperation policies are built in a way that allows for people to have the choice to remain in their countries, to have opportunities to be able to build their lives with dignity in their own countries – for migration to be out of choice, not out of necessity. (applause)second, i think it is essential to have a much stronger international coordination in cracking down on traffickers and smugglers that are, in my opinion, the worst criminals of today’s world. but third, i also think it is very important to create more opportunities for legal migration and more effective cooperation between countries of origin, countries of transit and countries of destination. i think that the european union must be at the centre of this dialogue, and your role can be extremely positive to find the necessary consensus to make the migration compact a success. (applause)this massive displacement we are witnessing in today’s world brings me to the third challenge i wanted to mention to you, and that has to do with the fact that, if one looks at the global mega trends that we face – population growth; climate change; chaotic urbanisation in many areas of the developing world; food insecurity, which unfortunately now has translated into famine in some critical areas where conflict and climate change have been aligning themselves to create terrible human tragedies; water scarcity – all these mega trends are interacting with each other in a stronger and stronger away in a world that is smaller and smaller, and they are having dramatic impacts in terms of the increasing fragility of states, the increasing displacement of people and the increasing human suffering in the world, and creating in several circumstances the potential for conflict over scarce resources. in this context it is important to recognise that climate change is the main accelerator of these factors, and, since climate change is the main accelerator of these factors, it is absolutely essential that the world implements the paris agreement and implements it with an increased ambition. (applause)if any government doubts these objectives, that is a reason for all others to come together and make sure that we stay the course in relation to the implementation of the paris agreement and that we build a broader coalition with civil society, with the business community, with the cities, with the regions, in order to be able to make sure that our ambitions are met and that we are able to tame climate change to the benefit of our present situation, but also to the benefit of our children and grandchildren. in relation to this, it is also important to understand that it is not only the right thing to do; this is the smart thing to do, as green business is becoming more and more recognised as good business. those countries that will not bet on the green economy will inevitably lag behind in development in the years to come. so it is the right thing to do, it is the smart thing to do, and we count on europe to lead these efforts at global level. (applause) but indeed, one of the key impacts of climate change is the acceleration of displacement, which is very much linked to the problems of migration and refugees that i mentioned, and this brings me to a fourth challenge. globalisation has had an enormous positive impact, as i mentioned – together with technological development – in relation to wealth, living conditions, the reduction of poverty, as i said in the beginning of my intervention. but globalisation left a lot of people behind, and we see that in the rust belts of this world. we see that in massive youth unemployment in different parts of the world – even a little bit in europe, to a certain extent compared with other areas – but very clearly in north africa and the middle east, which represents a tragedy for young people, a very strong limitation for the development of the countries, but more and more, a meaningful threat for our global security, as youth without employment, without jobs, without opportunities, is becoming, in some areas of the world, one of the key areas of recruitment of terrorist groups and one of the factors that facilitate the propaganda of extremist organisations. in this context, we need to recognise that globalisation and technological progress also have dramatically increased inequalities at global level and at country level. eight persons in the world have today as much wealth as half of the world population. all these factors have contributed to undermine the trust between peoples and the political establishments at national level, but also the trust between peoples and international organisations like the un and the trust in global solutions for our global problems. that is the reason why i am strongly engaged in the reform of the un, to be able to make the un more effective, more cost effective, but more than anything else, to make the un closer to the aspirations, the needs and the perspectives of the peoples we are supposed to serve. that means, for us, the reform of the un development system, to make it much more effective in supporting member states in the implementation of the agenda 2030 that we hope, as an agenda for sustainable development, can bring a very important contribution to re-establish the trust between peoples and the international systems based on making sure that no one is left behind, making sure that we have a more fair globalisation. at the same time, it means the reform of our peace strategy, operational set-ups and architecture in order to make us more able to face the challenges of today, namely of peacekeeping. we have more and more peacekeeping operations where peace is elusive and where peacekeepers see themselves in the middle of a conflict, with extreme difficulties to protect the people they are supposed to protect. this requires a strategic analysis and new partnerships, namely with the african union, with several african regional organisations, but very central cooperation with the european union in this regard, and reform of our own internal management system. some of the rules and regulations that have been accumulated over decades in the un seem to be created to make sure that we are not able to act effectively, and we need to make sure that we create the trust between member states, namely western countries and the g77, to understand that there is a win-win solution, making the un more flexible, but at the same time with decentralisation, simplification of procedures, more freedom of movement of the secretariat, more transparency and more accountability to make sure that there is full responsibility for anything we do. reform is essential at the level of the united nations. i think reform is essential at the level of all international organisations, as is the understanding that we need to rebuild that trust, both at country level and at global level. all our societies are becoming multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multi-religious. in my opinion this is a good thing, and i believe diversity is a richness, not a threat. but it would be naive to think ...(applause)... that diversity will be a success automatically. for diversity to be a success, we need a massive investment – a political, social, cultural investment by governments, by local authorities, by civil societies – in the social cohesion and inclusivity of our societies, to make sure that people understand that their identities are respected, but at the same time that they belong to the community as a whole, with all its rights and obligations. and at the same time, we need at global level to understand that diversity will not be automatically a source of peace and understanding; that we also need a massive investment, an investment in international cooperation, to bring people together, to make people know each other, respect each other, cooperate with each other, and to do it in a way in which it is possible to have everybody working together to face the global challenges that are in front of us and that no country can solve in an isolated way. it is in this context – and allow me to say a few words as a european – that i strongly believe that the values of the enlightenment are the most important contribution that europe has given to world civilisation, and that those values of tolerance, la primauté de la raison, must be a very solid cornerstone of our capacity to build a more tolerant, more fair, more just, more peaceful and more prosperous world. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
the application of the principle of subsidiarity is directly linked to the decentralised functioning of the european union in areas which are not its exclusive competence. in this context, decisions must be taken as close as possible to the citizen. the principle of subsidiarity is guaranteed by the national parliaments, through the yellow and orange card procedure. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. if a state, a government or a national parliament considers that the principle of subsidiarity is being violated, particularly because of the memoranda imposed by the troika, as is the case in greece, it may wish to bring the matter before the court of justice of the european union. why is it that the greek government or the greek parliament does not do this? the green card can also be applied by national parliaments to create a positive right of legislation. this can happen if it is institutionalized and deemed necessary.
i supported this report on subsidiarity and proportionality. i believe, however, that we should not just end up formally adopting a report here, but at least for the commission, those conclusions should be very important. the report says that only one third of legislative proposals do not sufficiently justify subsidiarity and proportionality, and i personally do not consider it a mere formality to say whether or not we need a particular piece of legislation and whether it meets these criteria. so i hope that, having adopted this report today, at least for the commission, the conclusions adopted in the report will be important and that, therefore, the reasoning for each legislative proposal will be improved in the future and that the reasoning will better include whether the proposed legislation fulfils the conditions of subsidiarity and proportionality.
the commission mr president, as i mentioned in my speech yesterday, the development of technology in the financial sector is expected to boost trade and facilitate consumers themselves. of course, increased vigilance needs to be taken on cybersecurity issues, especially after the recent cyber attacks we have seen. at the same time, the technology itself must be neutral, proportionate and non-discriminatory. the technology must support not only the centre but also the periphery. the provision of services must be free of charge or at minimal cost in order to be open and accessible to all. finally, it is necessary to combat technological illiteracy and to train consumers in this field.
i voted against the report, mr president, and as i said in my speech the other day, the recognition of professional qualifications is necessary to ensure freedom of movement and to protect workers against the arbitrariness of employers. but it is not a panacea and certainly will not in itself reduce the unemployment which plagues the european union. the european union's leadership must change course, abandon austerity and the policy of forced fiscal adjustment, change the production model and move towards a fair distribution of wealth in order to create jobs. but the report ignores them, and it ignores them flagrantly, precisely because it does not support these values and principles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the european central bank, mr president, is the umbrella of our common currency, the euro, and it needs independence and transparency and democratic accountability. i am one of those who have often and vehemently criticised the european central bank, but for the opposite reasons as those who make the far right in this chamber and some ultraconservatives in berlin blame mr draghi. ladies and gentlemen, the quantitative easing programme is a positive action and we in greece are looking forward to the decisions being taken in the eurogroup so that greece can also participate in the quantitative easing programme. and i have to say that the european central bank has done more in recent years than governments have done to protect employment given that we have an imperfect monetary union and an imperfect banking union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
the european central bank cannot be left unchecked, mr president. it is accountable to the european parliament, since its decisions have a decisive impact on the economic and social life of the peoples of the union. at the same time, transparency in the functioning of the ecb and the removal of conflicts of interest are required because the ecb cannot be both a monetary authority and a supervisory authority for systemic banks and a member of the troika. i propose that the european system of central banks be made more flexible and more decentralized. in this context, the national central bank of each euro area member state must become a lender of last resort for that member state and be able to pursue a monetary policy tailored to the needs of that member state's economy, using as a tool a range of non-conventional monetary policy measures, in particular quantitative easing, up to the national central bank's percentage share in the ecb's capital.
the european central bank, mr president, is pursuing a policy of inequality without transparency towards the member states and is serving the interests of the powerful in europe. it could play the role of a national bank of a sovereign state, i.e. devalue the euro or service the debt of a state, in order to avoid inflation and preserve the creditworthiness of weak states. on the contrary, while it is obviously necessary and useful to issue eurobonds, the bank succumbs to the german government's refusal. the european central bank is not controlled by democratically elected representatives of the people, as the treaty provides. this independence has been turned into anarchy. its prudential supervision of credit institutions and its contribution to the stability of the financial system are deliberately sidelined for selfish purposes. for example, its guilty silence when the socialist government of simitis in greece was falsifying the figures for the deficit and public debt to get the country into the eurozone. the way the european central bank operates and is accountable must change. the welfare of the citizens of the union is paramount, not the enrichment of bankers and corrupt politicians.
the european central bank is a european institution, and it is not a european institution, but a european institution. in 2011, then-european central bank president trichet threatened the elected governments of ireland and greece that he would cut off the supply of liquidity to the banks unless they took further austerity measures. in 2015 in greece, mr. draghi's coup imposed capital controls to punish the greek people who sought his salvation for the catastrophic austerity and unsustainable debt they had. the european central bank is thus a mechanism for imposing economic blackmail and coups d'état, to punish with stifling economic conditions the peoples who question austerity and privatization. memorandum governments can succumb to these blackmails, but the greek people with closed banks in 2015 said a thunderous "no" to the draghi-juncker ultimatums. the greek people are today on a nationwide, old-fashioned strike, fighting against austerity measures, fighting against the continuing memoranda of the troika, in which the european central bank is also involved.
mr president, to a young person today's debate will seem empty and devoid of substance. in the age of the digital revolution, it is extremely easy to access all kinds of online content services, long before the commission has decided to legislate on the subject. in any event, the report we are discussing today does not even protect the personal data of users, it gives companies excessive possibilities, while on the contrary it correctly states that a complete liberalisation would have a very serious negative impact both on the users of these services and on national economies, and especially in the production of music, television series, films and other artistic creations and intellectual property rights. i agree with the position on the possibility of temporary access for those moving between the member states of the union, but i believe that it is necessary to establish a specific limit of days, as only then will this possibility not be abused. finally, you must all admit that european citizens are facing much more serious problems today that need to be solved and do not need the commission's legislative intervention on matters of no real value that society has solved on its own.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the consumer is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission will be proposing a new approach to the problem of mobile telephony, which will enable european citizens to travel freely to other countries to access digital content and services that they have already purchased at home. it is therefore a first but very important step towards a better future in our digital world. as the socialist rapporteur on the committee on culture on this technical, but i think important, dossier, i would like to stress that this regulation concerns the portability of digital services and certainly not cross-border access to artistic content. the latter would have a negative impact on artistic creation and, above all, we all know, on european cinema, because it would call into question the principle of territoriality, which is an important source of revenue for the financing, production and distribution of european films. it is worth noting, however, that the preservation of the principle of territoriality and the promotion of european works is our absolute priority in the revision of the rules on intellectual property, which is fortunately well under way. the balanced and correct result thus achieved proves once again that the tension between consumers and artists is misleading and often national. culture is indeed one of the foundations of the european idea, provided it is not left to declarations but is confirmed, as with this regulation, on a daily basis.
mr president, the digital revolution has really turned things upside down. we have a digital single market in the european union which has actually, in the first phase, gone so far as to abolish the high roaming charges. we are now discussing an important issue, such as the cross-border portability of online content, i.e. the possibility for citizens to have access in another country to the digital content they have purchased or subscribed to, i.e. to be able to use games, music, entertainment programmes, e-books, etc. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information available to citizens, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the european union must be able to offer its citizens, at no extra cost, access to online content that they have paid for in their own country. of course, we must also take care to protect the rights of creators and to protect all those who have copyright, because this is crucial if we want to have additional copyrighted content and creation in the future.
mr president, proper and thorough control of the external borders contributes effectively to instilling a sense of security among the inhabitants of the member states. in addition, proper external border controls reduce to a minimum the need for detailed internal border controls. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not subject to any form of control. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the work of the european parliament. they shall, inter alia, have in-house databases containing data on travel documents containing biometric data, so as to facilitate the identification of the holder. in this way, and by exchanging information on databases containing lost or stolen travel documents, they help to protect the european union from the entry of terrorists and foreign fighters of european origin.
madam president, the strengthening of controls at the external borders of the european union by regulation 2017/458 is already proving problematic. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. external border control contributes to internal security, but the imposition of massive and excessive controls is forcing many member states to upgrade their security systems and increase the number of security personnel, without having the corresponding possibility due to the economic crisis and the constraints imposed on them. at the same time, there is a risk of increased delays at peak times and points, particularly for countries in the european south such as greece which rely economically on tourism. this practically increases the risk of terrorist attacks. the regulation should therefore be amended. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer to a question with a blue card. as i said, the changes must be based on logic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and it is therefore not right that the commission should take this step. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
madam president, at a time when europe is filled with thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants, when the european union has lifted the visa requirement for kosovo, the wasp's nest of jihadists, we have the implementation of this regulation, which has literally created chaos. it has destroyed every tourist prospect within the european union. the problems are also in the countries of southern europe which must be able to receive millions of tourists. we have heard that there are problems in croatia and slovenia as well. the regulation must be amended. but here, in strasbourg, there are also incredible restrictions because for six months, when the plane comes from athens, to get off the plane here in strasbourg, they ask us to show our boarding pass, that is to say, our boarding card. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i imagine you've noticed that, too, colleagues.
madam president, the border control system is not sustainable and effective and, after the terrorist attacks on european soil, it has proved inadequate. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the systematic screening of third-country nationals should be strengthened through the intensive use of all relevant interoperable databases which need to be updated, and through the use of high-quality biometric data from additional travel documents. innovative tools, such as automated facial recognition technology, will limit existing risks and threats to public policy, internal security and public health. the commission must legislate on them immediately. unjustified inaction will make the concept of the protection of fundamental rights obsolete if it leads to the complete abolition of border crossing points and, consequently, to the dismantling of the european territory. we have a duty to protect our fellow citizens, our property, our children and our nations.
i am not sure that this is the case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
mr van dalen, what you said was obviously not on the agenda and that is why you did not refer to any rule. i am the chairman, not the commissioner. you've been called a procedural issue and there is no procedural issue. do you have a procedural issue?
i think that is also a procedural matter. but if the commissioner wants to add something substantive to these two speeches, i think that would be welcome both from the bureau and from the members who have put it forward.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have received a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the report by mr szejnfeld on the implementation of the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement (fta).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the sgp and will continue to monitor the implementation of the sgp.
mr president, we have repeatedly dealt with the labour jungle in bangladesh. where little kids work ten and twelve hours. where labour laws are brutally violated. where hundreds of workers are burned alive, in the rana plaza. where european multinationals, having closed down textile factories in europe, have built factories where thousands of workers work for a piece of bread. bangladesh is not going to comply, you can be sure of that. we'll be laughed at by the bangladeshi government and the multinationals. they're playing hide and seek. the only solution is to ban the import of clothing and other textile products from bangladesh. to take measures to revive the european textile industry by providing special treatment for this sector both in greece and in the other countries of the european south.
mr president, norway is playing a double game, that is what is being proved. on the one hand, it is within the eea, where it is profitable, where it has the possibility to export fishery products, virtually duty-free, worth eur 5.6 billion. he did it in the period 2009-2014, and from 2014 to 2021 we have the same agreement, and he wants to go further. on the other hand, it imposes unilateral and illegal tariffs. ad valorem duties, as they are called. the commission has also decided to extend the period of validity of the derogation to the period of application of the regulation. that's some attitude. i think that the european union should take action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we have heard that there is also a certain amount of fisheries exploitation. will the european union take this seriously? i think that the commission should be able to take a decision on this matter.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. commissioner, targeted technical assistance is a catalyst for the future of cohesion. i therefore fully support your idea, commissioner crețu, of providing priority funding for cohesion programmes, combined with specialised technical assistance. in the new reality, it is essential that technical assistance be accessible and able to offer specific services, at the project level, or even at the beneficiary level. in every district, in every municipality, in every university, in every ministry there are special needs. there are special people, special resources and technical assistance can help to bring about projects of particular importance to local communities. it is therefore necessary first of all to increase transparency on the expenditure of resources on technical assistance and immediately to proceed with a study on the contribution of technical assistance to the implementation of cohesion policy in order to arrive at targeted indicators and evaluation methods for the next programming period. we have a sample of writing for specialised technical assistance, and that is what happened in greece with the task force. the court of auditors' report shows that we have had positive results in absorbing resources, but mixed results in implementing sustainable structural reforms. for this reason, technical assistance needs to focus on both the absorption and implementation of structural reforms that are necessary for the sustainable development of the member states.
mr president, mrs crețu, the european parliament, in its two reports, calls for a stronger cohesion policy. i know very well that you want this, but there are many people in the commission who are not helping you as much. we are asking the commission to do more for social cohesion and regional cohesion, because inequalities, both social and regional, have simply increased in recent years. and it is not just a question of southern or eastern europe. it is also about the poor regions in the most powerful member states, and in germany, and in france, and the millions of unemployed, and the millions of poor, and especially the young people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. i know very well from the experience of my country, greece, that we are making increasingly productive use of these funds, and with your help. but you have a powerful ally, the european parliament, to push you and the commission to do more. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
answer to a question with a blue card. mr polčák, that is exactly what i was saying. in recent years, differences and disparities have been increasing, both regional and social, not only between countries but also within countries, and if we want a united, prosperous europe, from whose development everyone benefits, cohesion policy must be strengthened. not just to continue beyond 2020, but with more funding and more technical assistance. to put that money where it's really needed.
mr president, it has been shown that the combination of technical assistance and financial instruments from the structural funds has not produced the desired results, and there are scandals and cases of mismanagement of funds. the union and the member states are bound by specific rules. the commission shall carry out ex post checks on the correct use of funds on a sample basis, in accordance with the conditions of mutual trust provided for in the treaties. responsibility is shared between the european institutions, in particular the commission, and the governments of the member states. in this way, institutional and administrative weaknesses, corruption, fraud against community services and squandering of european resources lead to economic deficits and regional disparities. governments have systematically succumbed to the lure of the client state, the interests of the construction company cartel, the petty interests of local actors and opportunistic political pursuits. the effectiveness of public administration and the private sector in making adequate use of community funds and maximising the benefits is obvious, so that the bleeding of the community budget will stop. individual solutions are needed, respecting the macro-regional priorities of the member states and the specificities, characteristics and differences of the individual regions. they need accessibility, transparency and meritocracy. the european union has a long history of supporting the democratic process in the countries of central and eastern europe.
mr president, while mr draghi is spending €2.3 trillion over two years, the european union has decided to spend only €454 billion between 2014 and 2020, and increased union intervention with resources is needed to strengthen cohesion and reduce unemployment. it is also noted that in greece, the largest projects financed by the erdf, eventually through the privatisation-concession process, end up in state or private enterprises of other eu member states. in the context of the concession of the 14 regional airports, the german state-owned company fraport received a commission of eur 520 million in the form of public works projects, which were carried out and are still being carried out at thessaloniki and chania airports, despite the fact that this is prohibited by european union regulations. in addition, the motorways were leased to spanish companies, the rio de janeiro bridge to a french company and the airport 'eleftherios venizelos' was until recently managed by hochtief. the european union is therefore buying, the european union is drinking.
mr president, zambia is a poor african country which is really facing a huge problem because of the spread of aids. the clashes between the government and the opposition are due to the disputed results of the presidential election in august 2016, when president lungu won by a very narrow margin. so the challenge by hachilema, the leader of the opposition, has led to clashes, the leader of the opposition has been arrested and his life is even in danger. it is obvious that there must be an understanding between the government and the opposition. i think that the european union, the commission, must also play an important role in this matter in order to restore calm to the region, so that the two opposing forces can find a solution, because the main problem in zambia is poverty. this is what they must see and on this basis settle their differences.
mr president, ethiopia is an important country in the horn of africa, it can really play an even more important role. it has signed an agreement with the european union, it is of course bound by the cotonou agreement, but it seems that the situation has got out of hand, because we now have a state of emergency, we have imprisonments, we have opposition arrests, we have land grabs, we have a situation which is now unacceptable. they don't respect freedom of expression, nor freedom of the press and of course they arrest journalists and bloggers. i think that a decisive message must be sent to the ethiopian government that this is no longer the case and that it must now abide by the agreements and, of course, protect human rights.
mr president, the desperate situation in sudan is described in the resolution which i myself have signed and support. there's a civil war going on right now. we have thousands of refugees, millions i would say, who are trying to save themselves. most of them are children. the rest of the population faces a huge hunger problem. what concerns me most is the recruitment of children into the groups involved in the conflict, which is clearly a war crime. we have the constant rape of women and girls, we have the annihilation of christian communities, and all of this is of course part of the conflict between the different races, but also of those who foment these conflicts in order to seize the wealth that exists in this country. the european union must therefore intervene directly in the economic sphere and, above all, impose an embargo on the sale of arms in the region.
madam president, ukraine has banned meps and me from entering the country due to my visit to dombas in 2014, as well as banning political parties and outlawing the communist party of ukraine. the ukrainian presidency said in a statement yesterday that poroshenko, in his meeting with the president of the european parliament yesterday, had asked for a response to these meps and for measures to be taken to prevent meps from visiting dobash and crimea. it's not a personal matter, but a serious political matter. it concerns the members of the european parliament and the european parliament. the entry ban and the unacceptable demand that poroshenko control the bureau over where meps are allowed to go and where they are not, must be condemned immediately. maybe the next step is to check in on what they're saying?
the commission madam president, mobility is important for the union and especially for greece, which is situated at the south-eastern extremity of the european union. this means that special measures are needed, a special scheme to support the transport sector in greece. in this context, it is necessary to take island status seriously in order to have low-cost air and sea transport to connect the aegean islands and crete with mainland greece. in addition, the need to support greek transport, air, maritime, land transport and the ose must be put on the agenda in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the greek economy, which is at a great distance from the major european markets. only by introducing a special scheme to provide financial support for the greek transport sector can the greek economy, which has been literally torn apart by the troika and the memoranda, be rebuilt.
the commission mr president, in the 1980s, the western countries adopted the famous 'washington consensus', that is, the rules under which international and domestic economic policy would be conducted. the washington consensus was based on banking, market liberalization, corporate relocation, globalization, privatization, the casino economy and austerity. the washington consensus led to armies of poor and unemployed, dismantled societies and inflated private and public debt. the new european consensus which we are discussing here is also based on the failed principles of the washington consensus which has swelled the world debt. so instead of changing strategy, you insist on the continuation of poverty and unemployment, which cannot be stopped unless we proceed to the cancellation of the debt of the developing countries and the cancellation of the debt of the countries of the european south, the abandonment of austerity and the forced fiscal adjustment.
the commission mr president, the new european common vision of global sustainable development to eradicate poverty as a financial instrument and toolbox is not achieving the objectives it has set itself. we must respect certain basic principles, particularly when we want to be called partners. for example, development is only acceptable when it is not carried out at the expense of other peers, nor can it be carried out with an agenda that is imposed in an abusive and blackmailing manner, either directly or indirectly. as regards developing countries, those who take ownership of sustainable development priorities should be committed to the outcomes of the understanding, with all its implications for bilateral partnerships, if this mutual respect is disturbed. the aim is not development based on the spread of poverty and misery, but solid, sustainable development between equally willing partners, for the benefit of citizens and all parties involved.
the commission mr president, resilience is the ability of a state to withstand stresses and shocks, absorb them and recover quickly. at the present time, on all continents, there are many states facing vulnerabilities which the european union wants to eliminate in the context of the leading role it wants to play as a global economic and political power. so it is interested in building resilience in countries in central asia, central africa, the horn of africa, the sahel region, even the western balkan countries and turkey are interested in the european union. but there is also a country whose resilience, despite the fact that it belongs to it, is of no interest to the european union. that country is greece. for the seventh year in a row, greece has suffered from the imposition of the unacceptable terms of the memorandum and the presence of millions of illegal immigrants in greece. the greek people are suffering, they are in danger of extinction and the country's economy is destroyed. the european union is unable or unwilling to confront this modern genocide because it cannot resist the demands of the german government, as expressed by mr schaeuble. no to debt relief, yes to a reduction in wages, and therefore to the impoverishment of the greeks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as long as the unacceptable terms of the memoranda are applied in greece, discussions like this will be held simply to impress the naive and the uninformed.
the commission madam president, the resilience of societies to modern economic and social challenges is particularly necessary in the current historical phase, characterised by poverty, unemployment, social inequalities and hunger that is reaping the planet. but for societies to be resilient, the causes of the condition must be eliminated, not just the symptoms. this means a fair distribution of the wealth produced, the abandonment of globalisation, the casino economy and austerity. in addition, the debt of the developing countries and the countries of the european south, and in particular greece, which has become a debt colony with armies of poor and unemployed, must be cancelled. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the commission's proposals. we cannot have the troika tearing greece apart and talk about resilience.
the commission mr president, in sri lanka, as we have heard, there is a massive violation of human and fundamental rights, there is an uncontrolled role of the military. sri lanka is a haven for multinationals, and they are making huge profits because there are starvation wages, child labor, violation of labor rights, lack of health and safety protection, and of course, limited trade union rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's textile industry is not disrupted by unfair competition and unfair practices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. don't expect sri lanka to change and protect human rights. the exploitation of child labour will continue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's textile and clothing industry is not left behind. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i will disagree with mr karim, because what we have seen in sri lanka and bangladesh and in asian countries is an over-exploitation of the workers themselves. we have child labour, we have no respect for labour rights. this creates unfair competition, we have no fair and proper practices in international trade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected.
the commission mr president, it is a fact that the sri lankan government has made some progress in restoring peace to the country after a decade of civil strife, and in its efforts to administer the country democratically. the fact that it will be able to meet its commitments on the implementation of international human rights treaties, on labour and on the reforms that need to be made, such as the limitation of the army's rights, the anti-terrorism law and all the rest, will be the subject of a review that we as the european union must have, because we have granted it the enhanced scheme of generalised preferences and it is an opportunity to develop its economy. i would like to stress here that we must take steps to avoid creating conditions of unfair competition for the workers of the european union and particularly of the european south.
the commission madam president, the european fundamental rights agency would offer special services if it had to deal with the violation of human rights in my country. in greece, the troika has imposed memorandum policies which have driven millions of my fellow citizens into unemployment. the troika has cut wages and pensions, imposed a tax on the incomes and assets of greeks, which are now being auctioned. the troika has now plunged the greek people into poverty. the eurogroup and the troika, which includes the commission and the european central bank, are therefore violating the fundamental rights of greek citizens, as protected by the european charter of fundamental rights. the right to a decent standard of living is being violated, the right to protection of private property is being violated, the right to work is being violated, and thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises are now being closed down. what about this matter? will there be protection of fundamental rights in greece?
the commission madam president, sustainable development is key to the survival of the planet itself. the un high-level conference on the oceans is an important opportunity for the world community to demonstrate that international law will finally be respected. japan must realize that illegal whaling, which kills thousands of whales, cannot be tolerated. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the fishing agreement with the republic of korea. the european union must take practical measures to ban the importation of illegally caught fish completely and completely. the red card, mr vella, has to go out to various countries, including china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen in the european union are protected from unfair practices by third countries. so, mr vella, support european fishermen, because they are facing unfair competition from third countries which are violating the law on the protection of the oceans.
the commission mr president, the challenges facing the european economy today call for an integrated strategy for the digitisation of industry, because only in this way will the competitiveness of the european economy itself, and in particular of the economies of the countries of the european south, be strengthened. the commission will continue to support the development of the european social model, in particular through the european social fund, the european social fund and the european social fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is even more true in greece, where expenditure on education has been reduced following the violent intervention of the troika itself.
the commission mr president, at a time when the european union is increasing its militarization and taking repressive measures in the name of security, the dangerous decisions of the nato summit in brussels are promoting, among other things, the transfer of large nato military forces to the border with russia. the transformation of greece into a hub for the transport of nato troops puts our people in great danger. the nato exercise noble jump is the prelude to a war plan in a region with major interests in controlling energy and markets. the sudanese base is a strategic base for imperialist interventions. the syriza-anel coalition government bears great responsibilities. for the sake of capital and in the name of geostrategic upgrading, he involves greece in the euro-eastern plans. no land or water for the murderers of the people! all bases are closed! no facilitation of the passage of foreign troops, no change of borders, immediate disengagement from imperialist interventions and wars! withdrawal from nato and other imperialist organizations!
the commission mr president, seven stone years have passed since the troika and the creditors destroyed greek society and turned it into a vast social graveyard. the syriza-anel government, with the third and fourth memoranda, completed the modern-day memorandum armageddon that has struck the impoverished greek people. the eurogroup, however, although the syriza-anel government enacted all the anti-social measures demanded by the creditors, refused to complete the second assessment, refused to pay the installment, refused the much-desired government regulation of the greek public debt. on the same wavelength, draghi also imposed new tough conditions for greece's entry into quantitative easing. schäuble and the troika are now discouraged, as the government has sounded the spanish retreat. but the greek people cannot tolerate the provocative actions of the troika and the creditors and will soon throw them out of our country, because there is now another way for greece.
madam president, the abuse of power by officials of different states is a phenomenon which has its roots in antiquity and, in this sense, i was not surprised that such a phenomenon was also presented in the czech republic by the media, nor was i surprised that the european union, as usual, intervened in the internal affairs of an independent country and we are now discussing this issue here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. i am referring to my country, greece, where the former prime minister, mr antonis samaras, has confessed to having interfered with the judiciary and ordered and succeeded in having the prosecutor imprison the leader and almost all the elected members of the country's third political force, the golden dawn party. he also ordered the media not to allow them to give interviews and express their views. in this sense, i am surprised, i repeat, that the european union has not shown similar sensitivity. such phenomena must be avoided, for they represent nothing more than mere hypocrisy.
the commission madam president, the failure to respect pluralism is due to the fact that the various business circles and oligarchs control the media. and this applies to all the countries of the european union. the troika in greece has, in fact, since the beginning of the memorandum, been systematically trying to control the greek press and the rest of the media. but if the european parliament wants to ensure pluralism in the media, it must ensure pluralism here in the european parliament. what are the conditions under which europarl tv operates? although i have made hundreds, perhaps thousands of speeches here in the european parliament, and several of them as rapporteur on subjects such as the european central bank and the european ombudsman, this activity of mine has never been shown on europarl tv. moreover, although many journalists come from greece every month at the expense of the european parliament and use the european parliament's premises and studio in strasbourg, they systematically exclude the ecr and myself from this exposure. will there be a statement on this, madam president?
mr president, the current concept of security is based on erroneous assumptions and outdated views. i do not accept discounts to the highest possible technical standards to prevent forgery and falsification of visa documents. the absolute prerequisites, of course, remain their universal agreement, participation and approval by the schengen member states. but it also misses a crucial, fundamental parameter: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the effective response to today's reality is not to codify this regulation. it is the abolition of the open border policy and the invitation of illegal immigrants to the union, often as cheap labour. but such policies only nationalist governments have the courage and the strength to implement and you can be sure they will.
mr president, the report attempts to review the uniform visa system in order, as it says, 'to close the windows' so that there is no possibility of forgery. but at the same time, the european union has opened the doors, because it has abolished visas for kosovars. in kosovo, which is the real hotbed of jihadists, the european union has abolished visas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not forced to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on foreign affairs and security. secondly, you have abolished, as the european union, the visa requirement for ukraine, so that anyone can enter from there. thirdly, the european union has an 'open door' policy: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not subject to the same restrictions as the citizens of the member states. only when there are national borders can these stories of illegal immigrants be abolished.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in the modern world we are witnessing a great deal of mobility. at the same time, because of their european citizenship, adults, especially the elderly, travel or even settle as pensioners in other member states. the european union is experiencing an ageing population with 37% of the population over 60 years old and 10% over 80 years old. the elderly are usually vulnerable to illness and other problems which raise questions, if you will, about how they should manage, if they can manage, their own property or personal affairs. this is especially true with alzheimer's disease and other problems that exist. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, people who suffer from mental or other illnesses which prevent them from managing their property or even themselves need special care, both from the member states and from the european union. the union must demonstrate its social character in practice by providing more funds for the protection of vulnerable people, particularly in member states facing economic problems and waves of migration. in practice, however, not only is this not the case, but the harsh economic austerity measures imposed in greece and other member states are having an unprecedented negative impact on health and insurance systems. these policies have made life more difficult for millions of vulnerable people, especially the elderly, the disabled, refugees and people with serious physical or mental illnesses. all of them are impoverished and deprived of adequate social protection and decent living conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the face of the economic crisis. the report which i hope the european parliament will adopt today by a large majority contains a number of well-founded recommendations to the european commission on the protection of vulnerable people. i call on the commission to respond swiftly and fully to these recommendations.
mr president, the number of our fellow citizens who fall into the category we define as vulnerable adults, whether elderly or disabled, is large and it is to the credit of all of us that we have here today a resolution concerning the protection and rights of these fellow citizens. the quality and level of a society is judged by the way it supports its weakest members. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in greece, in order to obtain legal aid for his child, an adult parent with a mental disability has to go through a legal process that costs a considerable sum. it is a great hypocrisy of the union to vote on reports aimed at improving the quality of life of these people and not to exempt their parents from cuts in wages, pensions and benefits. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political body, a political body, a political body, a political body. the costs for a family with a disabled member are high. i therefore call on the european parliament and the commission to ensure that these people and their parents are exempted from the cuts in wages, pensions and benefits which the greek government misleadingly calls 'reforms'.
madam president, i too have supported this report. i think it is very important that the european union addresses the issue of access to high-speed internet. the issue of the digitisation of society is one of the key issues of the european union and it is also a key issue in this period of the european parliament. i also supported another report on the digitisation of society, namely the digitisation of european industry, which we also voted on today. my colleagues have already explained today, and in the debate, why this is important. if we want to keep the european union, the european countries, at the forefront of global technology and global industry, then we need the digital revolution. that is why i support all these proposals, it will be necessary for the european commission to address the level of investment in these technologies, because in europe we invest only one third of what the united states does in modern digital technologies. we need more money, not just talk about it in general.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report. as i said in my speech a moment ago, vulnerable adults need protection, especially those adults, especially the elderly, who suffer from mental illnesses such as alzheimer's or from physical illnesses and disabilities, especially at a time when 37% of the european union's population over 60 years of age is reaching this stage, and 10% of the european union's population is over 80 years of age. the cooperation of the member states on the judicial assistance of adults, such as the recognition of judicial decisions in this area, is essential and the report we voted on facilitates this cooperation, as well as the provision of protection for vulnerable adults moving across borders within the european union.
madam president, i voted against the report on the introduction of autonomous trade measures for ukraine because it provides for additional trade concessions for the duty-free importation from ukraine of cereals, processed tomatoes, honey and grape juice. with these arrangements, and with the european union-ukraine free trade area, we have massive and duty-free imports of agricultural products and foodstuffs from ukraine, with the result that the economy of european union countries such as greece is being harmed and the interests of greek farmers, livestock breeders, beekeepers and the greek food industries are being destroyed. as i have said on other occasions, the principle of community preference, on which the eec was founded, which provided protection for the farmers of the community, must be restored. the european union cannot, in the name of political support for ukraine, destroy the rural economy of its member states, and in particular of greece. i therefore voted against the report.
madam president, i too supported this report, but like some of my colleagues i am a little disappointed that the project is not too ambitious and that, on the contrary, on the floor of the european parliament, the range of products that should be in the duty-free zone has been narrowed, which means that our aid to ukraine is there, but it is much smaller than the european commission originally proposed, and i personally believe that it is, as one of the speakers said, a small gift in a big box with a big stick. so yes, support yes, but in the future we should think about how to help ukraine more. it is in our geopolitical interest, in the interest of europe, that ukraine survives, that it stabilizes, and that pro-russian forces do not grow there in the future. it is in our own interest, that is, to let ukraine into the european market is not just our generosity, we do it not only because we want a democratic and stable ukraine, but we do it in our own interest. that's how we should approach it, and perhaps be more generous than this proposal.
madam president, i refer first of all to my speech on this subject, which i made a short while ago in the debate here in the european parliament. i voted against the report. i believe that in order to stop greece being a magnet for refugees and especially for thousands of illegal immigrants, it must withdraw from schengen. at the same time, the control of the borders by the member states themselves and the reintroduction of national border controls ensure the security and surveillance of persons entering. the european union, which has abolished visas for kosovo, where the jihadists are based, must also stop its double-speak. the european union has opened its door to the free movement of jihadists through kosovo, and now with this legislative initiative it is trying to close the window to the illegal entry into the european union of persons who falsify visas. and all this while thousands of illegal immigrants are flooding the european union.
madam president, i will begin with a point which i find extremely dramatic. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. at the same time, we have a target of 20% of our gdp by 2020 being industry-based. if we take into account the structural transformation of industry and the emergence of new business models, then we can easily conclude that we may have a million jobs that will be vacant due to digital illiteracy, while we can generate 10% gdp growth from tourism alone and through digitization. at the same time, we can benefit with consumers through digitization, through the comparison of service provision. it is essential, in the 5g era, to bridge the digital divide. it is essential that regions and municipalities provide small and medium-sized enterprises with digital capability so that they can move very quickly into the new era.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pleasure that i announce that, after six months of intensive but at the same time creative and collective work by the itre negotiating team, in cooperation with the maltese presidency and the european commission, the prima euro-mediterranean partnership initiative has been adopted. this is the first partnership to be based on the legal basis of article 185 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which concerns partnerships between public bodies, focuses on a specific geographical area, the mediterranean, and involves the participation of countries neighbouring the european union. a total of 19 countries, 11 member states, three associated countries and five third countries are jointly participating in horizon 2020 with a community contribution of eur 220 million and an equal contribution from the participants. with a ten-year implementation horizon, prima aims to promote a fuller integration at scientific, management and economic level of the mediterranean countries in the fields of agricultural products, food and water management systems. in particular, the general objective of prima is to implement a joint programme to develop and adopt innovative and integrated solutions to improve the performance, safety, protection and sustainability of agri-food systems and the supply and management of water in the mediterranean region. the overall objective is therefore fully compatible with the recently adopted united nations goals and the forthcoming european union strategy for sustainable development. the general objective of prima is to contribute to sustainable and inclusive economic development in the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership, while its specific objective is to coordinate, strengthen, extend and align the currently fragmented national research and innovation programmes in the field of agricultural products, food and water systems, in a multi-stakeholder, multi-dimensional and integrated approach. ladies and gentlemen, we all know that military intervention, armed conflict, political instability, climate change, unsustainable resource management and rapid population growth are the most critical factors contributing to migration. access to water, food and sanitation services are of paramount political, social and economic importance in the region and constitute key and interrelated challenges in this area. prima is therefore, in fact, one of the few european union efforts of scientific diplomacy that can help to address the forced displacement of mediterranean residents. both i, as rapporteur, and my fellow shadow rapporteurs have tried, in extremely stifling time, to contribute to the improvement of a good original text with amendments, which mainly focused on the following issues: the exclusive focus of prima on applications of a political and non-military nature, respect for fundamental rights, recognition of the human right to access safe and clean drinking water and basic sanitation facilities. responding to the demands of the region's citizens by contributing to improving the efficiency, safety, protection and sustainability of agri-food systems and integrated water supply and management. support all types of research and innovation activities to promote a wide range of technology readiness projects and ensure an appropriate balance between small and large projects. to promote fair and balanced geographical cooperation within the framework of the euro-mediterranean partnership. to prevent the external involvement of foreign and domestic illegal passengers by setting specific conditions and adequate commitments. strengthen openness for countries wishing to participate and ensure transparency in its governance, management and implementation. ladies and gentlemen, as i open the debate, i would like to point out that the joint effort between the institutions of the commission, the council and, in particular, the maltese presidency, which has made prima its first priority in the field of research and innovation, and the political groups, has resulted in an excellent climate of cooperation which has enabled the best possible compromises to be found for the timely completion of the procedure, and for this i thank them.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, at a time when the mediterranean is suffering from poverty and unemployment, when conflicts and civil wars have hit the asian and african sides of the mediterranean, when migratory flows are flooding greece and italy, the european union must rise to the occasion and take decisive action to provide relief for the peoples of the mediterranean. in this context, it is necessary to deepen euro-mediterranean cooperation, which, as we know, was launched in 1995 with the barcelona process. in particular, the research and innovation partnership under discussion, prima, could, under strict conditions, contribute to the sustainable development of the region, access to food and water. this requires a focus on agro-food systems and water management. it is a matter of the european union's increased resources, which are not available. the commission is also proposing to exclude from prima funding countries which support the jihadists, such as turkey. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide the commission with a detailed report on the implementation of the programme. the european union must also take action to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind in the process of european integration. in this context, the european union must focus on 'busting' poverty and underdevelopment with a bold investment programme in the region and initiatives for the peaceful settlement of the region's problems.
the commission mr president, the sustainable development of the mediterranean countries, through action on climate, the environment, resource efficiency and raw materials, does not depend on the various financial instruments or the establishment of the prima executive structure. the problems of water scarcity, food security, sustainable agriculture and forestry, shipping and the economy are mainly due to a lack of awareness, training and mobility of the actors involved, public and private, but also to a lack of accountability and prosecution of offenders. if we add to this the attempt by private profit-making interests to privatize water, which is a public good, then we are talking about a lack of humanism, national consciousness and patriotic self-awareness. the environment must be protected as a national asset and natural resources must be made available for the benefit of society as a whole. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much to all of you; i think it is fantastic when we come to parliament and we all agree on one crucial point – that the challenges we have ahead of us have no borders. if you talk about water or if you talk about food, there is just one way that we can do it and that is together and what i saw here today in parliament was exactly that: we are together thinking about how we can increase our food production in the future for the more than two billion people on planet earth by 2050. what we talked about today was also how we can have water for everybody. i started my career as a very young civil engineer in precisely this field of water and at that time, in 1993, the drinkable water that we had per person in the world was three times higher than it is today. we have to solve this, we have to create a technology, we have to have the innovation that will change for the better and that is something that we will do together. ms pilar ayuso said it: this project goes beyond technology, it creates ties for the future, it creates bridges and i think, madam, that you have a point. ms toia talked about a project of equals which is, i think, exactly what we want with prima, on this project: a project of equals in between all the countries with the same rights as partners and peers. mr zorrinho and mr telička talked about difficulties that we had at the beginning but that we were able to overcome those difficulties to arrive at something that really makes sense. i thank you for that because i think that it took the effort, it took the capacity of us sitting around the table all together, but we arrived at a conclusion that is really better than what we had before. we have here a better proposal and we have here a better solution and that is fantastic for all of us. mr gambús talked also about the environmental angle of these problems, which are definitely part of our ability to solve it or not. so i want to thank everybody – the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur – who were able to do something really very unique and which represents also for me, personally, one of the really unique moments of these two years and a half: to achieve with you, all together, prima. i wish you the best for tomorrow on the vote and i thank everyone who was here to support this amazing initiative.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we are really giving substance to a rare attempt at european union scientific diplomacy, the first partnership between public bodies focusing on the mediterranean with the participation of the european union's neighbouring countries. prima is perhaps a small ray of light, in my view, a small victory. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the migration phenomenon, given the situation in the region, is of such dimensions that such initiatives are certainly necessary, but they are a drop in the ocean compared to the size of the problem. it is our duty to support a long-term, integrated, coordinated and people-centred strategy and a common migration policy, a policy that will tackle the root causes for which the european union is of course responsible, against the fearful and ineffective model of a europe that is entrenched behind walls, fences and barbed wire. a common policy based on the principles of genuine solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities, guaranteeing respect for human rights and respecting the spirit and the letter of international treaties. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of the report because the smooth and rapid completion of our work will allow the timely completion of the union's actions and the conclusion of international agreements with as many countries as are needed. this will achieve the collective objective of prima becoming fully operational by 1 january 2018. thank you all again.
the commission mr president, horizon 2020 is an important initiative that allows the european union to respond to some extent to economic and social challenges. horizon 2020 was affected by the economic crisis, violent de-industrialisation and unemployment. for this reason, the programme gives a major role to innovation as a tool for improving the competitiveness of the european union. it took several years for the european union to realise that the competitiveness of the european economy must be based on research, education, training, innovation and excellence, and not on the 'chineseisation' of wages imposed by the 'euro+' pact in march 2010. it is therefore necessary to increase investment in research and development to 5% of the union's gdp. in this context, universities and research institutes must play an important role. the same applies to technology parks and small and mediumsized enterprises. in addition, large companies should invest their own capital in research and innovation and not just wait to receive money from european funds.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 june 2017. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by kerstin westphal, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the building blocks for eu cohesion policy beyond 2020 (a8-0202/2017), by daniel buda, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on enhancing partner participation and transparency in the performance of the european structural and investment funds (2016/2304 (ini)) (a8-0201/2017), and by mihra iskaylova, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on specific measures for additional assistance to member states experiencing natural disasters (com (2016) 0708 final - c7-0048/2016) (cod (2016) 0488 final).
the commission mr president, the european union's cohesion policy must support those countries which have suffered enormous economic damage as a result of the crisis. this is particularly true of the countries of the european periphery, and particularly of greece, which is suffering from austerity policies and violent fiscal adjustment. the european union must also develop a policy of effective compensation for the countries of the cohesion which have suffered damage from earthquakes, such as the damage caused a few hours ago in lesvos by the catastrophic earthquake of 6.1 on the richter scale. at the same time, mrs creţu, there must be a generous compensation for the enormous landslide damage in the dem lignite mine in amyntaio on saturday, where the damage amounts to at least one billion euros. fossils of 25 million tons of lignite, worth 500 million euros, were literally buried under tons of mud, as were four excavators worth 80 million euros. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's message is strong and clear: cohesion policy must not only be continued beyond 2020, but must also be strengthened, because social and regional disparities have increased in recent years, as have unemployment, poverty and the gap between rich and poor countries, rich and poor regions. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and of course, it also requires less bureaucracy and more transparency to deal with corruption. but you have a strong ally, commissioner, in the european parliament, because you know very well that, both within the commission and even more so within the council, there are forces which want to weaken cohesion policy. the earthquakes that have struck greece a few hours ago, as they did italy a short time ago, and the flooding of a huge lignite mine in northern greece yesterday, show the need to strengthen the european solidarity mechanism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the european north must show its solidarity in practice not only with the european south but also with eastern europe, by strengthening rather than undermining cohesion policy.
the commission the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one. it has not been realised that cohesion does not depend solely on infrastructure projects or large investments, but rather on the daily lives of european citizens. in this area, it is easy to see that the life of the average citizen of western and northern europe has nothing in common with the life of the average citizen of eastern and southern europe. the european institutions are clearly responsible for the fact that the people of greece, for example, are experiencing a daily deterioration in their living standards, while the german economy continues to benefit from this. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i think we should seek a way of working which focuses on the autonomy of states, which cuts drastically in the union's budget, and which simply allows the european institutions to coordinate, where necessary, the cooperation of sovereign independent states which, of course, are better aware of the needs of their citizens.
the commission commissioner, before i begin my speech, i would like to inform you that i am raising an urgent question as to whether my country, greece, is entitled to money from the solidarity fund for the enormous natural disaster that hit the mine in amyntios, which is estimated at one billion euros. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. especially now that the structural funds are being targeted and many are preparing to cut their budgets because of brexit. how much, in other words, are the contributing member states prepared to cover the amount allocated to the cohesion budget to pay for the projects they have committed to. improving communication in this context is essential. it is necessary and urgent because it requires specific funding in the context of technical assistance. it is necessary for the managing authorities to request and communicate specific information from beneficiaries at all stages. finally, it is necessary to involve all actors - universities, small and medium-sized enterprises, municipalities, regions - in order to jointly evaluate and promote the results in society.
the commission mr president, we are discussing the need to take measures to ensure that fish stocks in the mediterranean are maintained, and the scapegoats are more or less the fishermen themselves, whereas the reality is different. we have a huge pollution in the mediterranean, which is due to the fact that we have oil and gas drilling. we have, in general, an infection in the mediterranean which is definitely affecting fish stocks. the second is that fisheries play an important role for coastal populations, in particular small-scale fishing. the fishermen are suffering right now throughout the mediterranean, and particularly in greece, with the measures taken against them by the troika. the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect the income of fishermen, to put an end to the 'interference' policy against them, to set up a fund to support the fishermen's own activities and, of course, to support their income, together with investments, in order to have a modern fishing fleet.
the commission mr president, fisheries are an important factor for the coastal countries in the survival of their populations and, at the same time, an important factor in the country's economy, because the exploitation of the secondary processing sector employs thousands of workers. the same is true of the mediterranean, except that there are too many problems in the mediterranean. we have, for one thing, overfishing. fish stocks are being fished at a rate above the maximum sustainable yield, with the result that they are gradually being depleted. there is also a great deal of pollution from oil and gas extraction and, finally, unfair competition from third countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to accept them. in order to tackle all these problems, the mediterranean countries must cooperate, transfer fishing policy to third countries, control their own coasts and, finally, not allow the ngos to intervene because what they do is serve the interests of their international funders.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i think that the issue of transparency is crucial, and that there is also a huge administrative hurdle in order to move these programmes forward. i would also like to say that the 5% error in the calculations is a serious matter which we must take seriously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i see a tendency for large companies not to want to invest their own capital, just want to use the horizon 2020 funds to do so-called growth and investment. i think that beyond that, there is a return on horizon 2020. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the research budget is not reduced to the level of the community budget.
the commission mr president, the debate on developing a strategy in the european union to eliminate and largely prevent the gender pension gap i think highlights the causes that have led to this situation. first of all, there has been for a very long time, decades, a gender pay gap. so this directly affects pensions. the second issue is that women are employed in flexible forms of employment, and as a result do not have much increased pension rights. they are also particularly active in the agricultural sector, but their work is not recognised. so, then, important measures must be taken. there is this gap in greece too, where pensions are actually frozen at the moment. by 2022, there will be no increase. and what pensions will be frozen? the commission has already reduced the number of cases by 60% as a result of decisions taken by the troika.
the commission mr president, we have discussed the plight of the rohingya many times in this chamber and we have had the opportunity to denounce the unacceptable and illegal behaviour of myanmar towards this minority, these people who, mainly for religious but also ethnic reasons, are persecuted and have no chance and no rights in myanmar. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. we're seeing problems all over asia now. the fact that births are not registered and we have 136 million children who do not have a birth certificate really demonstrates the plight in which we find ourselves. but i refer to paragraph 10 of the report which states that the right to grant citizenship is the exclusive responsibility of each state and that this must be respected.
the commission the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of nations. unfortunately, this principle is not applied by all countries of the world. there are some countries in south asia and south-east asia, notably myanmar and bangladesh, which for various reasons, which serve unacceptable purposes, do not grant citizenship to their nationals. this results in these unfortunate people being unable to find employment, marry to start a family, or have health care, and eventually being forced to leave their country against their will. many of them come as illegal immigrants, mainly to european union countries, thus aggravating the already existing problem of illegal immigration. if the european union is to prove that it is indeed a defender of human rights, it must press these countries to obey international law, to grant citizenship to their own nationals and thus serve the general humanitarian interests.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr tamburrano, on his important report which is really setting in motion interesting developments both for the benefit of consumers and, of course, in support of european industry. the new labelling procedure really helps european consumers because it is clearer, because we stop being opaque, we stop being confused. so this is very important, because it gives consumers the opportunity to make the right choice, a choice with clear criteria. and if this choice is made correctly, that means, of course, a reduction in consumption. so it means money in the consumer's own pocket. but there must be a system of compensation for the consumer, who has actually suffered irreparable damage because of the confusion created. in addition, measures are needed to ensure that we do not have industries which produce 'monkey' products and also create confusion.
mr president, global warming, the depletion of natural resources and waste management are problems which require international cooperation, awareness-raising and the application of innovative technologies, free from artificial dilemmas and free from selfish private or national interests. unfortunately, although it has taken some 25 years since the 1992 rio earth summit and the ratification of the kyoto protocol, the paris agreement lacks any legal commitment, as evidenced by the impending withdrawal of the united states of america. the protection of the environment is a matter for man and his survival and should not be the domain of micro-politics or an attempt to impose interests between states. as a nationalist, i believe that it is possible to combine energy efficiency and safety with the protection and good management of biodiversity and at the same time reduce consumer bills, through strict compliance with the obligations arising from national environmental legislation.
mr president, we are talking about protecting the environment, about reducing emissions of polluting gases, about the objectives of the paris agreement, and all this when one of the biggest polluters in the world, the united states of america, has announced that it is withdrawing from the paris agreement. the united states' decision reverses the facts and actually puts the debate on a different footing, because the united states is protecting its own industry and economy at the expense of the world. the european union's objectives must therefore be flexible and realistic, and must support society and the economy, taking into account the action of all global players. the european union must therefore reconsider the amendment i have tabled repeatedly, namely that electricity generation in greece should be exempt from paying emission levies, as is the case in poland and bulgaria. in addition, the objectives for the intelligent transport system should not disrupt agriculture.
i voted in favour of the report, mr president, because it is important that the european union should now take action and, by means of complementary measures, support the states which have suffered damage from natural disasters. this is now true of greece. we must support lesvos, which has been hit by a 6.1 magnitude earthquake. we had a victim, a fellow citizen, and we express our sorrow and condolences. also, vrisha, a ghost village now, needs immediate help. i think it is important that the commissioner, mrs creţu, accepted my proposal yesterday to intervene directly on this matter. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial framework for the period 2007-2013, which is to be submitted to the european parliament and the council by the end of the year. we therefore consider it important that our parliament has taken these decisions to support greece and the other countries because of the natural disasters they have suffered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, eighty per cent of consumers recognise the usefulness of the energy efficiency scale in household and electrical appliances. however, most consumers in our country are unaware that the majority of electrical appliances fall into category a and above, that is, the last refrigerator on the market is in category a. today we are correcting a distortion that has arisen over the years due to technological progress. we're creating a clear scale that will make it clear that not all electrical appliances are energy efficient, a scale that puts the data in their true context. the introduction of the a to g scale, but above all the provision for upgrading the product scale, helps consumers to save money and gives incentives to manufacturers to further improve the energy efficiency of their products. with the new system, it is estimated that we can save up to 200 billion kilowatt hours a year, or the energy consumption of estonia, latvia and lithuania combined. but above all, we have a great responsibility for the planet we will bequeath to our children, and it is growing every day.
mr president, the horizon 2020 programme must not be used to boost europe's defence industries and we are firmly against it. at the same time, the european union must finally look at the proper implementation of various programmes. i am referring here to the internship programmes in greece, where thousands of greek citizens worked, but were not paid under directive 1999/70/ec, and also the judgment of the court of justice of the european union in case c-596/14. stage workers should have been paid as if they were permanent employees. these fees have not been paid. the european union must now make sure that the difference in wages due to these thousands of greek citizens who worked on european projects is paid. the european union must also ensure that the insurance contributions to the ika are paid, especially now that we have a decision by the high court in greece. the commission is therefore calling for the european union's decisions to be applied correctly to those who have been employed in greece on the basis of internship programmes.
mr president, the protection of fish stocks in the mediterranean should not be at the expense of small-scale fishermen, those people who are struggling to make a living. it is well known that overfishing is mainly due to the large aggregated units that fish, while, of course, small-scale fishermen cannot really make a living. this is even more true in greece, where fishermen are taxed by the memorandum policies. it should be borne in mind that pollution in the mediterranean is significant. it is due to the extraction of natural gas and oil, and from there we also have a decline in fish stocks. the commission has also taken serious steps to deal with toxic fish such as the harehead, which has entered the red sea through the suez canal and is causing huge problems for the fishermen themselves. the fishermen therefore need support, the fishing income needs support, and in particular the fishermen in my country, greece.
madam president, the european union, as a transnational alliance of capital, cannot overcome the dna of capitalism: imbalance of economic development and social exploitation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community, such as the introduction of a new system of national accounts, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year, and the introduction of a new system of national accounts for the financial year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they compete to see who will benefit most from a meager, uncertain recovery, a new crisis. the only thing they agree on is that the anti-people offensive is escalating everywhere without end. the greek debt which is being discussed the day after tomorrow in the eurogroup reflects such contradictions. the prerequisite for its regulation and quantitative easing means further permanent slaughter of wages, pensions and allowances, bloody surpluses for decades for new capital incentives, subsidies and tax breaks. the people don't owe any debt to pay. the only way for the european union to survive is to break away from the european union by overthrowing the power of capital, by popular power.
madam president, mr dombrovskis and mr moscovici, how and when will democratic control and european accountability of the eurogroup be strengthened? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. i hope that the day after tomorrow, on 15 june, at the eurogroup, and with the commission's input, there will be a path that will allow greece, my country, to develop fairly and strongly. i think that this is not only a greek but also a european objective. but it also needs more clarity and boldness from the commission, because you have an excess of findings and a lack of proposals. we need new, bold solutions that enhance development, political governance, transparency, democratic accountability, solidarity, and at the european level. it needs more political and democratic europe than just a market. the role of the european parliament and the commission must be strengthened rather than weakened and a european monetary fund must finally be set up.
madam president, emu and the euro have proved to be an economic and political mechanism for imposing specific policies in favour of the economically stronger countries and in favour of capital. in the 18 years of emu, and particularly in the crisis years, stricter austerity has been applied in the name of fiscal stability, with the result that regional and social disparities have widened. countries like greece entered into a memorandum to save the banks and the euro. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the process of european integration. today, the need for deeper emu is essentially calling for more austerity, more privatization, fewer rights for workers, and more unemployment and insecurity. for the people of europe, emu and the euro offer no prospects of prosperity and development. the people of europe will find alternative ways of economic cooperation outside and away from the shackles of the euro.
madam president, the philosophy and structure of the eurozone leads to imbalances, resulting in increased trade surpluses in germany and trade deficits in the south. at the same time, economic and monetary union did not provide for any system of fiscal solidarity and the creation of eurobonds. the result is armies of poor and unemployed, with the countries of the european south becoming 'colonies' of german europe. we reiterate our position that the national central banks must become the ultimate lenders to their own countries. at the same time, the european system of central banks must become even more decentralised and flexible, with the aim of allowing the national central banks to conduct an independent monetary policy, adapted to the needs of their country's economy, using conventional and non-conventional instruments such as quantitative easing, creating money without the approval of the european central bank and up to the share of each national central bank in the current balance sheet of the eurosystem, which currently stands at eur 3.5 trillion.
i think it is unacceptable, commissioner, that the commission accepts studies funded by monsanto, the company which produces the herbicide, as evidence capable of renewing the marketing authorization for glyphosate, when there is no way of cross-checking the evidence and it continues to refuse to publish the studies on the grounds that they are its investment. monsanto is mainly about trade secrets and intellectual property, but the core of its message is always the same. the data in the study is proprietary and not compromised. the risk of glyphosate to both human health and the environment must be objectively established. the research should be carried out by independent laboratories well before the permit renewal process and the scientific data should be made available to the scientific community. it is the task of the european union institutions to assess the contribution of information to the protection of the public interest. the european citizens may thus receive a clear message that the european institutions do not serve the interests of the big multinationals and are not indifferent to the protection of their health and the environment.
i have listened to you very carefully, mr commissioner, you spoke for 19 minutes, and it was perhaps the longest speech by a commissioner i have ever heard in this chamber, and i am very often in this chamber. finally, after your speech my questions and my concern increased. the same applies to the majority of members, because if, as you claim, glyphosate is supposedly harmless, then why are you taking special measures when we have applications in products accessible to children? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the precautionary principle must be strictly applied, especially since the 'monsanto papers' which show that glyphosate is a potentially carcinogenic substance. monsanto, as you know, is merging with bayern at the end of the year. so why use this controversial substance, on the basis of controversial evaluation reports, when the world health organization itself has classified it as a carcinogen?
mr president, i think the commissioner's speech was problematic. glyphosate, according to the world health organization, is clearly carcinogenic. the un reports aggressive and immoral marketing tactics to block reforms and paralyze restrictions on pesticides. at the altar of easy money, institutional processes are suppressed. science is bought and the evidence is suppressed. following the decision of the european chemicals agency, i would stress that the safety of a substance should not be based solely on its harmful properties. ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment requires access to primary data and not simply analysis of research results funded by the companies involved. the pesticide industry is asking for more science and less politics. for our part, we must ensure that policy produces results, ensuring democratic legitimacy, while listening to the needs of the market and society. monitoring of glyphosate residue levels in food and beverages and supporting the agricultural sector in a variety of ways to develop sustainable solutions are required.
mr president, the dramatic situation in the democratic republic of the congo is a matter of growing concern. it is a matter which we have discussed repeatedly here in the european parliament and every time we discuss it, the situation gets worse. human rights violations, persecution of dissidents, killings, arrests, restrictions on freedom of speech and freedom of assembly, huge humanitarian impact. we now have three and a half million refugees, one and a half million in kasai, and malnourished children. many children have now become soldiers, which is, of course, also a criminal offence. and beyond that, this situation will continue because kabila is hooked on power, he is violating the cotonou agreement, he does not want to hold elections, and that is why this situation is created, which is getting worse, because the mining companies themselves are now state-to-state, since there is enormous wealth in the democratic republic of congo. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
madam president, yemen is a complex case of civil conflict, where the houthi shiite rebels are fighting the saudi-led sunni coalition. the power struggle between different versions of islam targets the civilian population, and there are indications of crimes against humanity. the effects of the collision are devastating. at least ten thousand people have been killed in conflicts, while millions have been displaced. the blockade and the international civil conflict have left most medical infrastructure inoperative, two million children out of school and the majority of citizens living in food insecurity, without access to safe drinking water or basic sanitation. frankly, i don't believe and i don't expect a solution from the international community, when recently trump, merkel and may visited saudi arabia securing billions of dollars in arms sales. the legitimate fight against terrorism, which concerns us directly, does not allow us to turn a blind eye to the impending humanitarian crisis.
the commissioner has already said that the humanitarian crisis in yemen is killing a child every ten minutes. this is indeed a shocking fact. but do you think that the financial aid provided by the european union - which is indeed substantial - is able to solve the problem? moreover, is it able to meet the responsibilities of the european union itself, which is responsible for this development? what did the european union do when saudi arabia intervened in this civil conflict, supporting the government forces? but even now, with saudi arabia involved in the other crisis with qatar, what is the european union doing? the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. does the european union have the will and the power to force saudi arabia to cease hostilities, since it is also strategically in a difficult position to get humanitarian aid there? if it does not do this, what will happen is that we will once again and continuously observe the deaths of children and hypocritically express our disapproval.
madam president, the new technology has now been subordinated to power and to local oligarchs. in turkey, journalists are silenced. in the arab countries, the same. in bangladesh, the cradle of european multinationals, where they make millions, freedom of the press has been abolished. freedom of expression, however, also means the right of citizens, members of parliament and meps to equal treatment and access to the media. i have said it before and i say it again, here in strasbourg, every month greek journalists come at the expense of the european parliament, use the studios and the premises of the european parliament, tape broadcasts and systematically exclude the ecr group and myself from these broadcasts, which take place here in the european parliament. will there be a reaction to this? the european parliament will also put its own house in order? will the commission allow this discriminatory treatment of the ecr group and the greek journalist who is speaking here to continue, using the european parliament's own media?
ecr), in writing. the european union, and especially germany and austria, with their foreign policy in the 1990s, bear a huge responsibility for the dismemberment of yugoslavia and the war that broke out in the region and caused thousands of deaths. after a decade of wars and nato bombing targeting serbia, the country has been found to have lost significant territories inhabited by serb populations. it has lost its access to the sea and the cradle of serbian civilization, kosovo, and its important infrastructure has been destroyed. the european union has come to a society which has been in a state of economic insecurity ever since and has asked it, in the most hypocritical way, to adapt itself completely to western european standards of state organisation. the eu has also called for de facto recognition of kosovo by belgrade, which in addition to other things is reinforcing albanian nationalism. finally, after having pointed out the positive role of serbia in the refugee crisis, we should note that the position of orthodox serbia is in europe and the greek people support serbia's european path.
mr president, as is apparent not only from the commission's report but also from the knowledge of the facts, kosovo is perhaps the most corrupt country in europe. there is corruption at all levels of government, organized crime, human rights abuses, trafficking in hard drugs, organ trafficking, domestic violence, foreign fighters in isis and political polarization in the country. furthermore, kosovo does not meet the conditions of good neighbourliness, because it refuses to ratify the agreement drawing up its borders with montenegro and wants to join albania, which expresses openly expansionist views against all neighbouring countries in the context of the creation of greater albania. it is particularly provocative against greece. under these conditions, the stabilisation and association agreement between kosovo and the european union cannot be applied, because how can a country participate in international organisations if the rule of law is not established in that country?
mr president, the reality is that the antagonisms between the bourgeoisie in the western balkans are intensifying, not only in kosovo but also in fyrom, albania, montenegro, serbia, combined with the rivalries between nato-eu-us and russia-china for control of energy markets and routes. the european union, nato and the united states have bombed and dismembered the former yugoslavia, changing borders and slaughtering people. as in kosovo, they have financed and supported mechanisms, circuits, all kinds of nationalist and reactionary forces, as so-called liberators, to serve their interests, to set up military bases and to serve the interests by controlling the region. the peoples must oppose the plans of the bourgeoisie and their governments and, in conflict with the involvement of the european union and nato, must make their own way in their own interests, against nationalism and the interests of the monopolies. to demand the closure of foreign military bases, to open the way for the transfer of power and the economy into their own hands.
mr president, kosovo, according to surveys and publications, has become a hotbed of jihadists, and that is a given. i am therefore particularly surprised at how the european union will proceed with visa abolition when it is now proven that there are jihadist terrorists in kosovo, where training is taking place. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the second is that kosovo is being used by the albanian population as a whole to promote the idea of greater albania, a redemptive idea, an idea that even challenges territories within greek territory. the right to recognise a third state is also an inalienable right, a right which belongs to every member state of the union, and therefore rightly the states which do not recognise kosovo retain this right.
madam president, regardless of our motives and our views, president trump, to the extent of his authority, has the legal right to withdraw the united states from the paris agreement. the moral dimension of this decision is, of course, still in doubt. of course, there has already been a shift towards more environmentally friendly options. however, further action and regulation is needed. the changes envisaged in the agreement present both challenges and opportunities, but these are not shared out proportionately between the states. the same is true of the effects of climate change. legally binding action against the targets is necessary, alongside the reinforcement of innovation. a rule to be taken without delay is that 'whoever pollutes is punished'. otherwise, the consequences of inaction will outweigh the cost of any adjustment. this is about the survival of humanity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis.
the next item on the agenda is voting time.
the time for voting is over.
ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report on the accession process of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because it is at least politically unacceptable to try to blame greece for the fact that the council does not give a date for the opening of accession negotiations in skopje because of the name dispute. the resolution does not take account of the facts which clearly refute this claim. today, we have the visit of the new foreign minister of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in athens. from the statements of the new government, it is obvious that it is recognized that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has trapped itself in the intolerance and irredentism cultivated by the leaderships. the name issue of skopje can only be resolved within the united nations organization with a mutually acceptable name with greece, with one name against all. the european road must be opened to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia provided that all the copenhagen criteria are met.
the explanations of vote are closed.
mr president, it is now necessary to convene a conference for reform and re-establishment with a mandate to reform the union and the common future of voluntarily cooperating sovereign states, with a view to redistributing and redefining responsibilities. until then, the decision-making process in the european council, if unanimity is not provided for, must be considerably strengthened on the basis of a double-strengthed majority in relation to the number of member states and the total population of the union. moreover, as regards the commission, the inherent democratic deficit under the current 'comitology' procedure must be addressed by the participation of the relevant ministers and the publication of their positions and votes. the future union must be functional, sustainable and democratically acceptable, and not a wash-out of the current inefficient and opaque model. through intergovernmental procedures and taking into account the national needs of the member states, focus on issues with a genuine trans-european cross-border dimension, such as climate change or preventing the movement of millions of illegal migrants from sub-saharan africa and asia to europe.
mr president, the treaty establishing the european union provides that the european union is founded on the values of freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, and its declared aim is to promote peace and the well-being of its peoples. in reality, however, the union is tolerating the violation of the rule of law in hungary and poland. at the same time, the austerity policies imposed by the eurozone powers are leading to a shrinking of fundamental social rights, such as rights to health, social security, collective bargaining, fair working conditions and family formation, especially in the southern countries such as greece. if we want the project of european integration to have a long-term perspective, we must demonstrate in practice our respect for the values and aims of the union, and we must demonstrate it now by changing policies before it is too late.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take action against corruption, and i am pleased to say that the commission is taking this step. in this case, we do have the names of two maltese government officials in the famous 'panama papers'. first of all, this proves nothing more than possible tax evasion. i think it is necessary for the maltese judiciary to investigate the matter and, if there are any irregularities, to punish those responsible. but this is not a matter for the european parliament, which is not in a position to act as a judge. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations, and this is particularly so since many of the suspicions and suspicions about the management of the budget are directed at its members. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the people are not represented by the various non-governmental organizations which are being promoted and not controlled, or by the so-called civil society, but on the contrary, the people express themselves in the elections. finally, in a european union where the former prime minister of luxembourg is the head of the commission, we should not blame others for tax evasion.
the european fund for strategic investments, with its effective operation and its extension over time, is helping to cover the investment deficit at european level and also in greece, which is the country with the greatest problem. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the greek authorities have not complied with the conditions laid down in the commission's guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. this means that, in order to raise the level of investment in greece to the level of the euro area average, it needs to increase by eur 15-16 billion a year. as long as this deficit is not covered, the views of the international monetary fund will prevail, according to which the greek economy is pretty much doomed and the european partners will never get back the money they have lent to the greek state. so instead of wondering who will ultimately bear the burden of greek public debt, we would do well to turn to the search for an integrated investment strategy that will free greece's productive forces from overtaxation and mobilize foreign investment and additional european financing for the greek economy. it is the surest way to achieve stable and dynamic growth, quality jobs and debt sustainability for the greek state.
madam president, efsi was primarily designed to help us bridge the investment gap of europe, but it has not worked as expected. being a supply side instrument, we understand that it’s difficult to create its own demand, especially in the structure and innovation window because it was not included in incentives like that for the creation of this demand and the facts are clear: very few of the projects were additional; the diverse risk premium—the pricing of the programme caused more disincentives than incentives to apply for it; and lack of institutional framework to enable blending with other eu financial resources made it more difficult for the member states that need it more. now we are looking forward to address and fix this problem with the trialogues of efsi 2, but the ambitious elements that could incentivise the creation of demand are still not enough: 91% of vs 9, 15 member states vs 13. it doesn’t seem that it will change dramatically. i do believe that there is urgent need for economic relevance in the eu and efsis are potentially headed toward the correct direction. but its structure as designed does not address the realities and the lesson is that for efsi 1 supply side mechanisms with weak demand will not produce significant results. congratulations to mr bullmann and mr fernandes for the efforts made to change this direction.
madam president, the infamous three-year plan of 315 billion euros is not transparent. there's a lack of accountability, it's inefficient, it doesn't fill investment gaps. the european investment bank is not providing adequate access to information on this project. there is a complete lack of statistical data and comparable financial efficiency measures for all projects funded so far. the risk of overestimating the multiplier effect is not just visible, but is proving to be there. the court of auditors itself points out that the objectives and results referred to are projections which have not been confirmed by concrete, clear and up-to-date data. the five largest economies in the union have basically benefited from this scheme, thus creating further divergences and inequalities between member states. in conclusion, this is not an investment project, it is a plan to deceive and manipulate the european citizens.
madam president, according to a unicef report, by 2030, 167 million children will be living in poverty. unfortunately, this unacceptable situation also applies to the children of greece, which has been economically ruined by the memoranda that have been imposed on it. 25% of the country's workforce is unemployed, leaving 686,000 children malnourished and facing death from malnutrition. this, as you can see, is unacceptable. fortunately, family ties in greece are still strong, and so this situation is partly countered by the meager pension of grandparents. but the creditors, including the european union, are demanding a reduction in these low pensions. so a generation of young children in greece is threatened with genocide. the european union's leadership must immediately put an end to this unacceptable situation and stop shedding hypocritical tears over the poverty of children around the world.
madam president, the mockery and exploitation of the struggle of the unemployed to survive are working models, like the digital, cooperative or solidarity economy, social cooperatives and other prosperous but very dangerous anti-working models promoted by the european union. they're covering up unemployment, they're generalizing flexible employment without rights like insurance, with starvation wages or none at all, since workers are seen as entrepreneurs, shareholders or volunteers in businesses destined to close or be absorbed by bigger fish. it's a trojan horse for privatizations in health, welfare, education, water, energy, and so on. a tool of deception of the workers, like the company enklo in greece where a speculative fund, in order to restart it, blackmails the dismissed that they will rot in unemployment if they do not forget their claims from earnings and compensation, converting them into shares of a bankrupt company for the benefit of banks and former owners. the workers must not be divided but must overthrow barbarism by demanding their contemporary needs through their united class struggle.
madam president, the european political parties are political bodies whose existence contributes to the expression of the will of the citizens of europe and to the formation of a european conscience. these parties, many of which have been supported by millions of other voters, are the best expression of participatory and representative democracy. for these reasons, they must be financed from european union funds so that they can operate undisturbed and not look for funders outside the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. in particular, in some countries there has been a near total disappearance of industrial activity. in greece, the commission is actively involved in the imposition of a stifling tax and insurance framework which is destroying both commercial enterprises and industries and crafts. through the agreements which the union promotes with duty-free imports and free trade from third countries, it is dealing the final blow to an already wounded sector of the economy which can create massive jobs, while workers' rights are relatively easier to guarantee in large industries than in small and difficult to control enterprises. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject. at the same time, industry must also ensure that workers' rights and the environment are protected.
the commission madam president, industrial development depends on its ability to adapt and innovate. however, the lack of an eu strategy and misguided tax policies have had disastrous results. the reduction in production costs was not based on improvements in energy and technological efficiency, but was shifted to a corresponding reduction in wage costs and pension contributions. the lack of adequate access to adequate financing and the failure to curb red tape and administrative formalities place an undue burden on smes and force them to avoid paying taxes. the pursuit of high specialization has been abandoned. the link between the research community and industry is continuing to weaken, while measures against unfair commercial practices and the lack of strategic autonomy in key areas such as defence are being seen as woefully inadequate. the development of industry is not achieved by globalisation and free trade. it is achieved by practical support for industrial enterprises, by reducing bureaucratic difficulties and by connecting industry with the other areas of research and technology.
the european union is also working with pakistan on a five-year plan to develop a new nuclear power plant. the country is also included in the enhanced generalised system of preferences. nevertheless, the government of the country violates human rights, persecutes human rights defenders, various ngos, journalists, bloggers and, in general, anyone who criticizes it. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a party to the convention since the beginning of the century. pakistan has the sad privilege of being the country in the world with the highest number of death sentences. unfortunately, he even executes minors and mentally handicapped people. this situation is unacceptable. the european union must press the pakistani government to abolish the death penalty and respect human and labour rights. it should point out to the commission that if it does not comply and if it does not apply the 27 international treaties, as it has committed to do, and the principles of good governance, it will be deprived of its right to participate in the enhanced gsp scheme.
the commission mr president, indonesia is a multi-cooperative state that interacts with the regional and international community and voluntarily allows for the inspection of matters by third states and organizations, although there is a bigotry against christians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. obviously, despite the corresponding progress, there is room for considerable improvement, especially in matters of religion. the union, if it is to be useful and timely, without going beyond its mandate, must focus on supporting action following a sovereign decision and invitation from the legitimate authorities. moreover, when human rights are violated and crimes against humanity are committed, international mechanisms are set up with legally binding decisions and appropriate means of action. the union's role is by definition limited to flagging human rights violations. it can lead by example, by implementing what it is supposed to represent to the peoples of the member states, by ensuring the well-being of its citizens and the resolution of internal issues. the union must not only claim to be a pioneer in human rights, it must also demonstrate this in practice.
mr president, macrofinancial assistance to moldova, if not linked to the implementation of an ambitious programme of economic and structural reforms, is doomed to failure and i cannot therefore agree to the provision of financial support. the eu has also adopted a number of measures to improve the quality of life in the country, including the introduction of a new health insurance system. courageous steps and a break with the bad communist past are needed to improve areas such as the governance of the economy and the public sector, the fight against corruption and money laundering, the efficiency and independence of the judiciary and the governance of the energy sector. i also have many reservations about the usefulness and efficiency of supporting the rapid implementation of a global and deep free trade area.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the conditions imposed by the european union and the international monetary fund when they intervene are well known. this is a matter of the european parliament's right to decide on the future of the community. we have seen in greece what a memorandum is. here, for moldova, it is supposed to be 100 million euros. 60 as a loan and 40 as a grant. how much of that money will go into the state economy and how much will go to benefit the citizens themselves? or will the creditors finally get paid again? there's a lot of bilingualism. he's asking for a resolution - right - by an independent judiciary. but mr dombrovskis, in greece the troika and the eurogroup are intervening to acquit three technical experts of the european union involved in a trial over the scandal of the sale and rental of 28 public properties. mr. dombrovskis, by what right are you interfering with greek justice? there are your own statements of 29 june 2017 in which you link the granting of the last instalment of the loan to the discharge of these experts. is that independent justice? we are waiting for an answer, mr dombrovskis, on this matter. by what right do you interfere with greek justice? (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner bieńkowska, we must give new impetus to the development of standards, because such a development will benefit consumers, businesses and the european economy. promoting a european standardisation hub with global impact is indeed an ambitious goal and will give a boost to the european economy. but it can be done with firm steps and a plan to support priority sectors such as the construction sector. if standards eventually lead to higher quality, it is possible that in the future we will avoid tragedies like the one at the tower of london. standards are a particularly important tool for the functioning of the single market and, of course, the digital single market. they promote innovation, improve the quality of services and products, ensure consumer safety and enhance competitiveness. the committee on industry adopted the report in which i represented the european people's party by a majority vote. in fact, we expect the internet of things, data protection and cybersecurity to form a technological backbone so that we can develop important sectors. it is therefore a key condition for ensuring that companies of all sizes, large and small, can work together in a mutually beneficial way. it is important to protect small businesses in particular, ensuring equal access and creating the conditions to promote innovation.
the commission mr president, the digital single market certainly requires standardization and the setting of standards, because only in this way can we have technological development, especially in the field of communication and information. the commission will continue to support the development of the european space policy, in particular through the european space agency, the european space agency and the european space agency. at the same time, the commission must take the decisions and proposals of the european parliament seriously. in addition, there must be consultation, involving smes, local authorities, civil society and of course consumers themselves, because only then can we move towards a process where standardization and standards will really support the economy itself. it is a voluntary procedure, but at the same time a necessary one, and that is why we must not impose standards, and above all standardization and harmonization, on the measures of the large european or american multinational companies.
the commission madam president, hiv, hepatitis and tuberculosis are three diseases that are literally harvesting the european populations and especially those at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which has been very helpful in this respect. in addition, hepatitis and tuberculosis are reappearing in greece, with new cases in kilkis, kavala and other areas, mainly among the large numbers of refugees and illegal immigrants who have now flooded into the country. the question today is how to deal with these diseases and, above all, that there should be cheap medicines and that multinationals should not profit at the expense of the poor.
the commission madam president, the rapid increase in the incidence of serious infections in europe, such as tuberculosis, hiv and hepatitis, clearly shows us all that the health of european citizens is at increased risk. let us focus on the causes of this increase. young people today are still unable to realise the risk of these diseases, having grown up in an environment that was more about sexual liberation and less about the risks of sexually transmitted diseases. the dramatic increase in migration flows has also led to the uncontrolled entry into europe of carriers from countries with substandard health systems, and a large number of cases are found among these people. the solution i propose is first a major information campaign to make the public aware of the scale of the problem. i also believe that strict health controls should be applied to all those entering the union. finally, i propose that instead of the dubious funding of third countries, which often ends up in the pockets of officials, we should support health and information centres in those countries to ensure that they do the best job possible.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the implementation of the memoranda since 2010 and the cuts in public spending on health in greece, apart from the humanitarian crisis, mr commissioner, have also created a zone of health poverty. reduced public health expenditure has resulted in an increasing trend of hiv cases, especially in 2011-2012, with epidemic characteristics, which was also highlighted in the council of europe health report. due to malnutrition, poor living conditions, weakness and delayed access of citizens to health services, an increase in cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis was also observed. the lack of access of hepatitis c patients to modern effective medicines, due to high costs, hinders the provision of healthy lives for all. commissioner, no epidemic has borders and no fence will prevent it from spreading. the immediate abolition of the memorandum policies and the austerity policy, that is to say the causes of these diseases, the increase in costs, equal access to modern effective treatments, the updating of the european programmes for these diseases and the subsidization of the high cost of treatments, with the aim of eliminating them, are needed.
the commission madam president, many health systems are unable to meet the demands of the aids, tb and hepatitis c epidemics. they underinvest in immediate initial treatment and waste vast sums on advanced treatments. the three diseases mainly affect specific populations, such as intravenous drug users and illegal immigrants from sub-saharan africa. and combined with the adaptive resistance of strains to drugs, they take on a pandemic character. prevention, information and early diagnosis are priorities. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide the european union with a comprehensive and systematic approach to the problem of the spread of infectious diseases. finally, abusive corporate practices, opaque pricing mechanisms and virtual pricing that reduce the adequacy and accessibility of treatments and increase mortality must end.
the commission madam president, in the circular economy model it is a given that there is and must be participation of both citizens and businesses in policy making, so that we can have products and services that are really durable and at the same time of high quality. it is true that consumers are increasingly complaining because the products available are problematic, have many defects, are not durable and, when one tries to repair them, it turns out that one pays much more money for their repair than he gave to buy them. we must therefore create and support a model which will support both employment in the european union and the strengthening of small and mediumsized enterprises, and we must of course express our opposition to the 'ape' products which are on the market, especially from various asian countries.
mr president, i am very pleased to have had the opportunity to speak on this point, because i consider it to be extremely important and i would like to congratulate mr preda on his report. the question of preventing war and of the clear functioning of the institutions of the european union in the event of a potential conflict in the world is a matter of great importance. that is to say, if we have a report here which says that we should have an effective procedure for identifying and resolving such crisis conflicts in a timely manner, then i think that the commission should really look into this and develop the white paper which has already been adopted. i am prepared to support this report for a second reason, and that is the question of the rome statute of the international criminal court, which i have already mentioned. i am also very sorry that the number of countries that have ratified the convention has not increased recently, and we should be doing much more in the future as the european union to persuade our partners to take this international body seriously.
mr president, genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes must be dealt with immediately, severely punished and, of course, those responsible prosecuted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the guilty parties are now seeing what has happened in the past and are becoming despondent; and i am referring clearly to the case of germany's refusal to pay german reparations to greece. despite a 1946 paris peace agreement resolution, the german side refuses to pay war reparations, refuses to return the occupation loan and refuses to compensate the relatives of the victims for the war crimes committed by the nazi occupation troops in greece. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council and the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission mr president, although we are in the twenty-first century and one would expect the traces of war to have disappeared, unfortunately there are still war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. to demoralize an enemy, some belligerents use torture and various methods of humiliating and intimidating the opponent, such as the rape of men and women, sexual violence against women, mass killings of religious and ethnic groups, and the bombing of civilians with chemical weapons. the bad thing is that in all this, there are also non-state actors, like boko haram in nigeria and isis in iraq and syria, that are not being controlled. in order to control this unacceptable situation, the european union, and the international community, must implement a strategy which anticipates the possible emergence of such activities, prevents them and - above all - punishes those responsible promptly and very harshly. but to do that, it has to be impartial and apply punishments to everyone - not like in syria where we condemn the extremes of the regime, but not its opponents.
the commission mr president, we know that constitutional law and political science stipulate that the state has a monopoly on the legitimate use of force, which is why defence and security are entrusted to public authorities. because of neoliberalism, what we're seeing is now the use of force being delegated to private companies and even considered legitimate. this is an unacceptable phenomenon which cannot continue. we've seen these things happen with private companies that have been involved in iraq and have been involved in military action. we've seen companies like this accused of torture, of loss of life, of human rights violations and war crimes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. these defence and security issues must be clearly delegated to the public authorities.
the commission mr president, due to the increase in terrorism, the asymmetry of the threats in the place and manner of carrying out such actions, the state security forces seem to be unable to respond in a timely and effective manner. the number and range of targets in the public and private sphere can be secured more efficiently by the use of organised, equipped and suitably trained private security companies. these private companies will be able to cooperate, within a specific framework, with the state security forces at operational and information level. however, the legal basis must be properly laid down and the rules for the formation and operation of such companies clearly defined, so that there are no problems of overlapping responsibilities and jurisdiction and, above all, problems of cooperation and interoperability, which can lead to collateral losses.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see that unemployment is increasing, especially among young people, that there is precarious work, that there is false self-employment, that workers' labour rights are being violated and that workers are often pressured to accept wages which are very low, despite the fact that they work very long hours. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. the european union intervened in greece and the country's gdp fell to a third. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis communautaire.
the commission mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr lucke, for his report and refer to page 17, where he talks about the well-known ecb asset purchase programme, i.e. qe. i would point out that 60% of the qe has now gone to germany and 20% to france. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to fraport was compatible with the internal market. this is the process that is going on today, with the quantitative easing. this is unacceptable!
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. you see, it's being engineered, for the profits of the entrepreneurs who will take over, the privatization of cleaning and recycling, with new heavy lifting for the public. the european union, civil governments and local authorities, liberal social democrats and opportunists of all kinds, who have called for the implementation of a european directive to ensure that contracts are not renewed, that the unemployed are regularly recycled and that they do not acquire rights, have adopted the best practice of short-term work and long-term unemployment as a stimulus to growth. the long-term strike of the contract workers in greece, which was met with threats, repression and guided social automation by all the parties that are silent today about the worker who died and another who is rejoicing because of the intensification of hot work, showed that stable permanent work for all - an immediate demand for popular survival and the rallying of the working class - is beneficial to the soul of the system. that's why the struggle must be linked to its own overthrow.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so, after the imposition of the third and fourth memoranda, after the pension cut, after the imposition of permanent austerity until 2060, after the launch of the sale of public property and the country's resources for 99 years, through the occupation fund, the troika and mr moscovici announced new measures against pensioners in september. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. according to a commission document, after the third memorandum expires, €24.7 billion will remain. why does the greek government not ask for a 30% reduction in the memorandum measures, since the lenders will only give 70% of the loan? the greek people, however, are not going to tolerate the troika and its henchmen and will soon be giving them the message that there is another way.
mr president, the most important issue that the maltese presidency should have tackled is the refugee issue and on this issue i would say that the european union as a whole has failed because the presidency can make efforts, but when there is resistance from the member states the problems grow; and remember that there is a promise from the european union that there will be 66,400 resettlements of refugees from greece. unfortunately, only 12,700 have been made so far, or about 15-20%, and the time is running out for the organization and implementation of the relocation programme. so a serious issue here is that solidarity measures must be taken. the aegean islands are no longer tolerated, there are no more refugees and illegal immigrants, and the european union's solidarity must be expressed in practical terms in this matter, as it should have been towards cyprus, because it is the only country in which there is an occupation by a foreign power. the turkish occupation troops are still on cypriot soil and this is unacceptable and the european union should express its solidarity with the cypriot people.
mr president, as expected, the maltese presidency has had some successes, but it has also had some issues that it has not been able to complete. in my view, the most important thing is that, although a small country, malta has managed to handle the issues assigned to it without any problems. however, without malta being responsible, there has been no success in solving the serious problems facing the european union and i focus on the lack of solidarity with greece, whose people have suffered for eight years in a row because of the memoranda that have been imposed, and the lack of solidarity with cyprus, part of which is illegally occupied by turkey. i would like to ask the prime minister why he did not mention greece at this point in his speech. the european union has imposed on greece the transformation of its territory into a vast concentration camp for those who have entered europe illegally.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, most tax systems in european countries are structured to favour large multinational companies and place most of the burden on vulnerable citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. in addition, some eu countries act as tax havens, making tax avoidance even easier and more legal for those who have the means and enjoy the benefits of the free movement of capital and goods in the union. it is easy to conclude, then, that fair tax systems must first be established and that taxation should be proportional to income. it is not possible today in greece to ask small businesses to pay overall charges of up to 70% of total income. in addition, we must review the free movement of capital and goods, because it obviously does not work without a single tax system throughout the union, but this is something we are opposed to on grounds of national sovereignty.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the various multinationals are taking advantage of the triangular relationship, saving billions of euros, and all this is happening at a time of enormous poverty and unemployment in the european union itself. we have witnessed the famous tax rulings in various countries, in malta, in luxembourg, in the netherlands, essentially unfair practices which are really creating huge problems in the european union, as we now have aggressive tax planning. so we must arrange things so that multinationals pay taxes where they actually make their profits and i think we must close all the roads so that they cannot evade taxes, as the famous oecd standards leave too many gaps, as does the limit of 750 million euros.
in the context of the single market, transparency and equal tax treatment are essential to combating inequalities and to ensuring the proper functioning of the economy and trade. but for european citizens, tax evasion and avoidance, both by individuals and businesses, is a continuation and a byproduct of political corruption. as politicians we demand corporate jurisdiction, while the citizens of our countries demand political accountability and accountability. for the greeks in particular, who, hit by the memoranda, have lost more than 50% of their income and are subject to inhumane tax measures, any notion of regulatory intervention by the union in greek tax policy is now a casus belli. the intervention in greece's budgetary policy, with the consent of the greek governments, is so blatant that it shows that you have turned my country into a protectorate. the union imposes memoranda and acts unconditionally. it is time for the citizens of the union to take a strong stand and to assert their national sovereignty.
i voted in favour of the report because it successfully tackles the problems facing fishermen. in a phase of crisis and declining incomes for fishermen, measures must be taken to support this sector and i believe that fishing tourism can really contribute to increasing fishermen's incomes. at the same time, fishing tourism is an opportunity to attract tourists, and this is very important, especially in areas which are remote and island-based. we should bear in mind that the reed fishery mentioned in the report offers various social benefits and is important for human health and well-being. at the same time, the socioeconomic benefits of tourism will be particularly evident during the summer season, and i also regard this as positive. i think that a legal basis for fisheries tourism should be established, blue growth should be supported and, of course, the sustainable and solidarity-based economy should be supported.
madam president, i voted against the report because the application of temporary autonomous trade measures to ukraine is damaging the national economy of certain countries in economic crisis, such as greece. in this respect, european farmers, and especially greek farmers, will face unfair competition both in cereals and in matters relating to viticulture. even honey, cheap but of questionable quality, is imported into greece from ukraine. in addition, the free trade agreement between the european union and ukraine will also dismantle the livestock sector in greece. we will have a total import of dairy products - of undoubtedly high quality - and meat, and so greek farmers who are already facing a great many problems because of the impoverishment caused by the memorandum will be placed in an even worse position. that is why i voted against the report.
madam president, globalisation and international competition have not only led to the chineseisation of wages, but also to the disintegration of industrial relations. the result is that we now have too many forms of informal work. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the necessary financial support for the development of the sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. undeclared work is also a huge problem, especially at a time when we have millions of poor people and, of course, armies of unemployed. in addition, women, who represent 46% of the workforce, are the weakest link in the labour market, as they are under pressure and are paid at least 16% less than men. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr timmermans, the european union and the commission need to change a great deal, in deeds and not in words, in order to regain the trust of the citizens, because in recent years inequalities, unemployment, poverty, social and regional disparities, the gap between rich and poor have increased dangerously, and this is where the idea of a united democratic europe loses out and the far right, which wants to break up europe, wins. but citizens no longer want words; they want positive, concrete steps that will reflect on their lives, on the economy, on society, on the quality of democracy, on economic and social cohesion. they call for a strong social pillar with content, not an empty box, to tackle growing inequalities and social dumping, a european social charter that will establish with legal binding force a common binding framework of rights for the poor and working people across europe and a new employment and development pact that will put an end to the doctrine of perpetual austerity and strengthen cohesion policies. they call for tax harmonization - finally - in europe, to stop the consistent taxpayers, whether they are workers, pensioners or small and mediumsized enterprises, from paying the cost of a gigantic tax evasion by multinational companies, and they also call for respect for human rights, away from xenophobia and racism, and european solutions of solidarity with refugees, so that not only italians and greeks bear this burden. the european union needs radical changes to boost growth and social cohesion, otherwise it will face tendencies towards disintegration, increased inequalities and the danger of an extreme right that wants to take us back eighty years.
madam president, mr timmermans, i shall concentrate on the refugee problem because it is a problem that is affecting europe, particularly greece, italy and, as i see it, spain, and we must take it seriously. the question is what will happen to the relocation process, because greece should have had 66,400 relocations and only 12,700 have been made, i.e. the programme has been implemented to about 15%. at the same time, however, the relocation process ends at the end of september. what's going to happen? will the program be extended? will we have a process of genuine solidarity with greece and italy, which are currently suffering from the enormous flows of refugees and migrants? we must take very concrete measures, because at the moment the situation in the aegean islands is also unbearable. the aegean islands can no longer tolerate refugees and illegal immigrants. i want a position on this, mr. vice president.
madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the conjuncture of a trump, the new american president, an erdoğan, a nato ally, but also of brexit, which takes away great defence potential from the european union, as well as the new demographic challenges in our neighbouring countries and - of course - migration, are challenges for the european union which force us to make leaps forward and to put common defence policy as our priority. it is extremely important, not only because we have to secure our internal and external borders, but because we will also have a very large reduction in defence spending, at least by 30%, not only from cooperation between member states and cooperation in research and exchange of know-how, but also from the exchange of information that is required. our enemies no longer know borders, and the new challenges are cyberattacks and cyberdefense, and it's essential that we share information. but to make it equally beneficial for member states, to increase spending, budget and participation, we must be prepared to talk about border integrity in all member states, regardless of the origin of the threat.
in writing. the eu, as an association of european monopolies, is in competition with russia and china, as well as the us, for resources and market control. the eu's policy towards the peoples is reflected in juncker's statement that 'war is not a thing of the past'. all this is reflected in the establishment of the european defence union and the associated fund, the euro-army, headquarters, the border guard/coast guard and, more generally, in the further militarisation of the eu and its joint action with nato. the greek government is giving bread and water to the promotion of imperialist plans, is getting excellent performance in spending for the needs of euro-atlantic mechanisms and is involving our people in great risks. the peoples have an interest in intensifying their struggle against the eu and nato, against imperialist wars and interventions, and in demanding that their countries be free from any involvement, military missions abroad, and the closure of euro-atlantic bases.
in writing. the eu, as an association of european monopolies, is in competition with russia and china, as well as the us, for resources and market control. the eu's policy towards the peoples is reflected in juncker's statement that 'war is not a thing of the past'. all this is reflected in the establishment of the european defence union and the associated fund, the euro-army, headquarters, the border guard/coast guard and, more generally, in the further militarisation of the eu and its joint action with nato. the greek government is giving bread and water to the promotion of imperialist plans, is getting excellent performance in spending for the needs of euro-atlantic mechanisms and is involving our people in great risks. the peoples have an interest in strengthening their struggle against the eu and nato, against imperialist wars and interventions, and in demanding that their countries not be involved in any military missions abroad, and that the euro-atlantic bases be closed.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the reimbursements made by the union to the member states have been paid by the european citizens themselves. i am not only referring to the money paid by each state, but also to the loss of national sovereignty and the mortgaging of national wealth which is the real price for the benefits of the union. the union is willing to finance and subsidize public works and infrastructure, because it knows that this is the easiest way to enforce its economic and cultural expansion policy. the cases of greece, but also hungary and poland, clearly demonstrate that the first thing the union intends to do when a state tries to pursue a different policy is simply to close the money. the union gives with one hand, but skillfully takes away with the other. but the peoples of europe are now beginning to openly question the very well-organized operation of the union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, the structure of the eurozone, the crisis, unemployment and austerity policies have effectively marginalized the european south. the cohesion policies must therefore be strengthened. the two key words are cohesion and solidarity. but at the same time, the funds given to the countries of the european south must also provide added value, that is, give the local economies the opportunity to develop, and not simply transfer funds and in fact return the money to the countries that give it, either by transferring technology or as fees for materials, etc. what is also happening - naturally - in greece at the moment is that the hard core countries are now in fact owning or operating the major projects. the rio-andrigues bridge is owned by a french company, the motorways in greece are operated by spanish companies and, in the past, hochtief owned 40% of the shares in eleftherios venizelos.
mr president, the future of the union is uncertain - as brexit has shown. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the document presents limited options, without vision and on the wrong footing. while it lists the main problems, current difficulties and future challenges, it focuses on management reforms and half-measures. the union is declining because it is implementing the wrong policies. it imposes blind budgetary discipline on the member states, causing distortions and inconsistencies. money, transparency in financial management and balanced budgets are of no value to european citizens living in want, poverty and misery, with terrorist attacks and illegal immigrants. a sustainable future for europe exists only when money is the means to the well-being of citizens and not an end in itself.
the mandate for the tripartite dialogue on the 2018 draft budget must be clear, it must be strong and it must be based on specific axes: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. in addition, support for innovation and research, because only then can there be competitiveness and - of course - funds must be made available for refugees and security issues. finally, no funds are needed for turkey, which is violating human rights and illegally occupies 37% of the republic of cyprus.
mr president, the decision of the un council to elect saudi arabia as a member of the committee on the protection of women's rights can only be a surprise. saudi arabia is a very conservative islamic country where the right of every gender is clearly defined by law and this is clearly against women. every woman should have a male protector who will make all the crucial decisions for her and control her life from the moment she is born until the moment she dies. women are also not allowed to drive, not allowed to paint, not allowed to talk to men and many other things. so you can see how much saudi arabia will promote women's rights at the un. but if you consider that this country has the largest oil reserves in the world, is the largest oil exporter in the world, and that most of the uk's weapons systems end up in saudi arabia, you realize that it's not difficult, despite the fact that saudi arabia is funding terrorism around the world, to convince some of its enemies to support it at the un, while the voting there is secret.
mr president, commissioner, i listened very carefully to your speech and it was not at all concerned with the issues we are dealing with here, namely the membership of saudi arabia in the un commission on women's rights. i was expecting you to tell us, for example, whether the commission has investigated which european countries elected this country, which is a flagrant violator of women's rights, to this body, and i would also be interested, as some of the other speakers, in what the commission will do in the future to ensure that european countries better coordinate their choice in such international forums so that such a disgrace does not persist in the future. in my opinion, this choice is absolutely outrageous, it's a huge disgrace. if we are serious about the human rights agenda on the soil of the european union and human rights are a key agenda for us , then it is not possible to swear in diplomatic phrases about saudi arabia making small moves, as you said, making shy reforms, shy changes. i think that a radical and clear position from the european commission is needed.
mr. president, we have a provocative decision, the election of saudi arabia as a member of the un commission on the status of women. a decision that is unacceptable for a country where human rights do not apply, women are oppressed, are forbidden to leave the house without an escort and are not even allowed to drive a car. a country where executions are on the agenda, a country where isis jihadists rely on. this is reality. and we have 47 of the 54 countries, including five european union member states, that have supported the election of saudi arabia. it's a given that what happened was a transaction. the member states who have made this choice, clearly for reasons of economic interest, have defied reality itself and this must be condemned, because instead of having the force of law, we have the law of the strong.
mr president, the unacceptable resolution being put forward by the european union and the european parliament is an organized plan to infiltrate european monopolies and to set up reactionary ngos in cuba. the united states embargo and the european union's interventions are both directed against the cuban people. the european union and its governments of imperialist wars and interventions, of the 20 million officially unemployed and of the tens of millions living below the poverty line are waving a human rights finger at the cuban people who for decades have eliminated unemployment and expressed the need to abolish the exploitation of man by man. in a country which, despite sanctions, has achieved achievements unattainable for the capitalist countries of latin america and the caribbean. we condemn the longstanding blockade of american imperialism and the european union's interventions against cuba. we stand firmly with the cuban people and express our solidarity with the cuban revolution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have repeatedly expressed my conviction that the cooperation and political dialogue agreement is a strong framework for developing equal relations between the peoples of europe and cuba. i have stressed that this joint effort must be guided by the principles of reciprocity and cooperation, without conditions and without discrimination. the fact that it took only two years to conclude the negotiations, given the different views, is due to the fact that both sides showed mutual trust, respected political commitments and worked with the necessary dedication. on the contrary, despite the rapporteur's best efforts, it is regrettable that some political groups have tried to turn parliament's resolution into a human rights resolution. this has never happened before and the political possibilities are obvious. i believe, however, that the approval of the agreement by the european parliament and the rapid completion of ratification by the competent authorities of the member states will be in the undeniable interest of all.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report on the new european strategy for international political relations sets quite ambitious objectives. k. commissioner, culture can be transformed into a driving force for employment and social cohesion, and can contribute to mutual understanding and peaceful coexistence between peoples, and thus constitute an integral pillar of the european union's bilateral and multilateral agreements. but this requires adequate and increasing funding and, above all, programmes for young people. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the cultural heritage of the european union is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the european union is not prepared to take action to protect cultural heritage. the immediate return by the member states of cultural relics and monuments of world cultural heritage to their countries of origin is a compelling practical demonstration of our respect for the cultural heritage of each people. the global awareness of the need to return the parthenon sculptures demonstrates the need for ambitious declarations to protect and promote cultural heritage to be backed up by concrete actions.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, we are discussing the report on the recommendation of the european parliament to the council concerning the 72nd session of the un general assembly, and while the report deals with almost all the major issues concerning world peace, while it deals with africa, asia, the ends of the earth, it does not look at what is happening here, it does not look at what is happening in cyprus, it does not say a word about the illegal invasion of cyprus by turkey and it does not say a word about the illegal occupation of 37% of cyprus by turkish troops. why would i do that ? the report also says nothing about turkey's threats against greece, about turkey's violations of greek airspace and the territorial waters of my country. what kind of european solidarity is this towards greece and cyprus? finally, the report makes no mention of the cancellation of the debts of the developing countries and of the countries of the european periphery, although only in this way can the growth for which the report in question is so much concerned be achieved.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i regret that the debate on such a serious subject as fraud against the financial interests of the european union is taking place at such a late hour in front of almost empty seats. the european commission estimates that the european union loses €600 million a year from fraud committed against its interests. do european citizens have 600 million euros a year to spend in this way? obviously not. is it necessary to criminalise fraud at european level? apparently so. but this cannot be done because the limits of the division of competence between the union and the member states, which are laid down in the treaty itself, are exceeded, and therefore our final vote on this matter will depend on whether or not our amendments, which concern in particular the minimum limits of criminal sanctions, are accepted.
mr president, the g20 summit on 7 and 8 july is taking place at a time when complete trade liberalisation and globalisation have torn european societies apart and created armies of the poor and unemployed. this is because world trade rewards countries that engage in unfair practices. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further aggravated by the threat of war. the time has come to demand an end to unfair trading practices and to implement policies which will protect union citizens who lose their jobs. it is time to put a stop to ceta, ttip and the various other multilateral trade agreements, and this can only be done by applying the principle of community preference. at the same time, measures are needed to limit the migratory flows affecting greece and italy.
mr president, the next g20 summit will, as always, discuss all the major issues of concern not only to the european union but to all mankind. but the problems arising from these serious issues, such as the economy, trade, fair taxation, development, the fight against terrorism and migration, cannot be solved by the global governance that the g20 is seeking to impose and that many of you are proposing. globalization and global governance mean levelling, which doesn't solve problems, but enforces the views of the international overlords. international problems will be solved by sincere and serious cooperation between sovereign and independent states or an association of such states which are aware of their own particularities and on the basis of these particularities try to find the most feasible and most pragmatic solution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is also committed to the development of the information society, and the european union is committed to the development of the information society. i would like to take up what you did not say in your opening statement and ask for answers in your second part. what will you do to promote a strong social pillar in the european union, given that inequalities, both social and regional, are dangerously increasing? what will you do about tax harmonization, which is a necessary tool to curb a blatant evasion of taxation, where multinationals pay little through tax havens, and taxpayers, employees, pensioners and small and mediumsized enterprises pay the cost? what will you do about european solidarity in the refugee field, which is lacking as member states refuse to honour their commitments? what will you do to complete the banking integration with a bank deposit guarantee scheme which has been proposed by the commission but is stumbling over the reactions within the council? what will you do to strengthen cohesion policies as inequalities grow dangerously? i hope that in your second reading you will give me concrete answers and commitments and work on these matters when you come to give your report, so that we do not remain in pleasant generalities.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank members for this very fruitful debate. everybody understands that it is impossible in just five minutes to respond to all of the questions raised here today, but i would like to touch on some of the issues. taxation was mentioned. i would like to state that this commission took a very clear position: all taxes have to be paid in the countries where the companies generate their profits. i am absolutely sure that during estonia’s presidency we will continue to follow that approach in our activities. regarding connectivity, as you know, we have set three main connectivity aims for europe. we would like to achieve those concrete results by 2025. i am talking about the gigabit society, 100 megabits-per-second networks and 5g networks. as we know, to reach those aims at least eur 500 billion in investment will be needed. if we continue on the basis of the existing rules, there will be an investment gap equal to eur 155 billion. the message is clear: we have to change our rules. that is why i would like to ask parliament and also the presidency to pay attention to those connectivity issues and to deal with spectrum issues for example. when we asked for deeper cooperation in the field of spectrum, we asked about the timing of spectrum allocation auctions. it has to be harmonised. regarding the duration of licences, there is a minimum of 25 years and, as we know, in some rural areas 25 years will not be enough to break even and start to make profits. this is important in terms of giving predictability to mobile operators and, of course, regarding coverage issues. as we know, in finland, sweden and lapland, population density is less than one person per square kilometre, but there is excellent access to 4g networks. here, however, when travelling from brussels to strasbourg, there are tens of kilometres without any kind of access to the internet. so we have to change our rules. then we have to pay attention to geoblocking. as we know, this is a real headache in the european union. according to our mystery shopping survey, two per cent of people who wanted to buy goods and services from another eu member state just could not get access to the websites selling those goods and services, and 27% of people who got access to the websites were not able to register because their ip address was wrong. they were from the wrong countries – from france, from germany, from italy, from the united kingdom, from estonia, anyway from eu member states – while 32% of those people who were able to register faced delivery problems. to deal with those problems, we launched our parcel delivery proposal. i hope that, during the estonia presidency, we will be able to reach consensus on these issues. however, 26% of the people who did not have any kind of problem with delivery issues could not pay. in the european union we have the single euro payments area (sepa) but, nevertheless, 26% of people could not pay because their credit cards were issued in the wrong eu member states – in germany, in france, in belgium, in the netherlands, anyway in the wrong eu member states. all in all, just 36% of all those people who wanted to buy goods and services from another eu member state were able to conclude their purchases successfully. the issue here is not just about the single market we would like to have in the european union, if only every third person is able to conclude purchases successfully: it is much more about discrimination on the basis of nationality or where a person’s credit card was issued. we do not have to accept that kind of discrimination in the 21st century in the european union. (applause)my speaking time has already expired. i hope that, during the estonian presidency, we will also be able to achieve concrete results in dealing with cyber security issues and many other important issues. i wish estonia’s presidency every success. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to say thank you to members for all their statements and your comments. i have taken note of all your positions and opinions. we will work very closely with you, honourable members of the european parliament to make sure that citizens are at the heart of everything we do. the four economic freedoms of the single market are very important principles of the union. the european union has to be strong and united to go forward. i am certain that we will overcome all the current and future challenges. now some remarks about your questions or your remarks. first of all, migration. i take it very seriously. it isn’t a question for the one or the other state. it is a question for all 28 member states. our goal during our presidency is to find consensus. we must find consensus, and solidarity is an important topic here. i could say it is the cornerstone here. the first informal council meeting of our presidency will take place in tallinn tomorrow. i would like to stress once more that we are fully committed to finding solutions to the refugee crisis. the issues are difficult but we are working towards a common solution. solidarity must be there. the previous presidencies, slovakia and malta, have done a good job. estonia is doing its best to keep the process on the right track in order to help to strengthen a common asylum system. we are highly committed to doing our share. also i would like to mention that at the beginning of this week, the estonian government decided to allocate eur 1 million to the eu trust fund for africa. we encourage all member states to increase their contributions to this fund. some words about security and terrorism. there is no doubt that security and defence are top priorities for europe. the european union can only be taken seriously as a global player if member states strengthen their own security and defence. hence the need to raise defence expenditure levels. we must also take into account the interconnected nature of our internal and external security challenges. in addition to strengthening defence cooperation with the european union, we must continue to move forward with eu-nato cooperation. some words about the social pillar. we are taking the social pillar very seriously. it is one of our top priorities. we will move forward on all social files, including the posting of workers and hope to adopt the proclamation endorsing the social pillar together with you. some words about brexit. when it comes to brexit, estonia’s main goal is the unity of eu 27 and to ensure that the divorce process is as smooth as possible. we must protect the rights of eu citizens in the united kingdom. the second urgent question is the financial settlement and the third is the border issues with ireland. these questions have to be settled before entering the second phase of the negotiations. estonia fully supports mr barnier as the chief eu negotiator and also parliament. we will be at the service of the member states and work closely with all eu institutions involved. honourable members of parliament, estonia wants to contribute to making the eu a better place to live for everyone. one of our main priorities is a digital europe and the free movement of data. we must deliver it because the unfinished nature of the digital single market costs us about eur 400 billion a year. completing the process is important to improve the everyday lives of our citizens. ladies and gentlemen, if i may, i would also like to say some concluding remarks in my mother tongue. siin oli arvamusi ka selles osas, et kas euroopa liitu on vaja ja kas tal on tulevikku. eesti usub väga tugevalt, et euroopa liidul on ühine tulevik. me oleme kindlad selles, et meie eesistumise ajal euroopas tuleb ka näidata neid positiivseid samme, mida euroopa liit on pakkunud, olgu see rahu, olgu see inimeste, kaupade, teenuste vaba liikumine või olgu see ühine kultuuriruum. auväärt parlamendiliikmed! ma näen, et teil on väga palju külalisi kõige kõrgemal korrusel. ja mõned nendest on noored inimesed. nad on väga õnnelikud, et siin euroopa liidus on erasmus – ja see on ka üks näide euroopa liidu ühtsusest. eesti soovib igal juhul ehitada oma eesistumise ajal sildu, mitte tõmmata piire või ehitada seinu. eesti soovib igal juhul, et me euroopa liidu tulevikku arutame koos, mitte igaüks eraldi toas. me soovime, et euroopa liit on järgneva kuue kuu jooksul rohkem ühtsem, tugevam ja turvalisem. thanks for all these positive comments and to all those wishing us success. we will need good cooperation with all of you to make our presidency a successful one. thank you for your attention and thank you for our discussion. (applause)
in writing. the estonian presidency must step up and take significant initiatives to tackle and contain migration flows. and that requires the following: the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the programme is implemented. 3. pressure on third countries to accept the return of their citizens who have illegally migrated to greece and the rest of europe. the immediate abolition of dublin iii which has turned greece into a warehouse of souls. 5. take initiatives to consolidate peace in the middle east. 6. tackling poverty in africa.
the european union, madam president, although it is well aware of turkey's intransigent attitude and the blackmail and threats it is making, is confronting it with a policy of condescension, fear and contradiction that leads to a dead end. the european council welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the new lomé convention and the commission's efforts to promote the development of the acp countries. it condemned the human rights violations in turkey but called for an upgrade of the customs relationship. turkey only understands the point and the determination. the european union must make it clear that as long as turkey continues to threaten greece and cyprus, as long as it does not recognise the entity of the republic of cyprus, as long as it does not withdraw the occupying troops from cyprus and as long as it does not stop the flow of illegal migrants to greece, it will not receive funding and the accession procedures will be stopped indefinitely. this is how turkey must be treated if we are to solve the problem it is hearing in the name of turkey, unless you are afraid that mr erdoğan will accuse you too of following nazi methods.
madam president, one year has passed since the attempted coup against the turkish republic and all of us here in the european parliament condemn in the strongest terms the coup plotters and their practices and pay tribute to the hundreds of victims of the coup of last july. we all here in the european parliament want a turkey which will be a factor of stability in the wider region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we all want a turkey firmly oriented towards european ideals. but the turkish government - mr erdoğan's government - with its practices on press freedom, minority rights, the rights and functioning of the judiciary, the arrests of hundreds of civil servants and teachers and the reintroduction of the death penalty, is moving away from the european acquis. turkey has lost its european dream. politically and morally, turkey is moving away from europe. the report by mrs piri is a balanced report which reflects the reality in turkey today. we want to continue the dialogue, and we do so as the eu-turkey joint interparliamentary committee, and that is why we will vote in favour of the report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for twelve years turkey has pretended to be willing to comply with european rules in order to become a member of the union and europe has pretended to believe it. in practice, the turkish regime is becoming increasingly authoritarian at home and increasingly aggressive towards its neighbours. these realities are reflected in the report we are discussing today, but unfortunately it comes to the same conclusions, such as that the customs union between the two sides should be upgraded or that the visa regime for turkish citizens should be liberalized on european territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer "blue card". turkey, madam president, refuses to comply with the customs union regime and with the obligations it has assumed under its previous agreements with the union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is a total afterthought and i repeat that we are not prepared to vote against it.
madam president, the report on turkey reflects the sharpening of the contradictions between the european union and the turkish bourgeoisie in a region where there is a reallocation of powers, where imperialist competition for markets, energy and transport routes is raging, and where the turkish bourgeoisie is claiming a greater role. the european union is seeking to continue its vigorous intervention in the interests of european monopolies in the region. the report indicates a freeze on integration, citing existing dangerous threats and violations against neighbouring countries such as cyprus, greece, and the violation of the rights of the greek people. at the same time, however, it keeps open the prospect of the accession process, promotes the upgrading of the customs union, the implementation of the unacceptable eu-turkey agreement on refugees, cooperation in the so-called fight against terrorism. the peoples must coordinate and organise their independent struggle outside and against the rivalries and imperialist alliances of the european union and the bourgeoisie, reject the poison of nationalism, expressing their solidarity with the tried turkish people.
madam president, human rights are being systematically violated in turkey. many thousands of citizens have lost their jobs or been imprisoned without any substantial evidence against them. the recent referendum and the constitutional changes that have resulted from it are undermining the democratic function and the principle of the separation of powers. the turkish authorities are provoking greece on a daily basis by violating its airspace and territorial waters. also of concern is the disrespect shown to world heritage monuments such as hagia sophia. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish cypriot population is not subject to any form of repression. mr çavuşoğlu probably wants to forget that cyprus is a member of the european union. i am glad that the referendum is a response to the aggression of turkey and the erdoğan government and at the same time a message of support for the tried turkish people, the democratic citizens, who, like the rest of the peoples of the region, want to live in peace and prosperity.
mr president, i am surprised at the lethargy of the union, which is still politically in love with erdoğan's turkey. right-wing, neoliberal and left-wing internationalists forget centuries of turkish atrocities, with wars of expansion, destruction of cultural monuments, violent islamizations, child massacres, slave markets and genocides of christians, ponts, armenians and assyro-chaldeans. some dream of a westernized turkey and converse with the islamist erdoğan, who supports isis, traffics christians, yazidis and syrian shiites, traffics in contraband oil, drugs and stolen archaeological treasures. it is a fact that the european union has been able to take a number of steps to ensure that the european union is able to play a more active role in the world. you may have missed erdoğan's statements about the dutch being nazis and fascists. i do not expect to be supported by politicians of slander and hypocrisy, nor do i expect to be understood by the north-western europeans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i personally have no intention of becoming a rabbi for anyone, neither european nor turkish.
mr. president, i'm reading you a passage from a book: but now, after the assassination attempt, it was obvious that not only was the newspaper, my profession, my freedom, but my life in danger. five years and ten months in prison for leaking state secrets. the court returned my passport the same day. was he implying that he should get away from this country? i would like to address all of you: support the struggle for survival of the democratic forces of turkey! europe can embrace the only secular democracy in the islamic world and defeat the ever-growing islamophobia. this is written by can dündar, former editor of cumhuriyet, now a resident of berlin. and i remember clearly his words at an event we did in the european parliament: the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. don't give the best gift to erdoğan. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. let us use them not as an opportunity to close the door, but to convince ourselves that it is open, if and as long as turkey accepts that the rule of law is non-negotiable.
mr president, the 2016 report on turkey is being discussed at a time when turkish foreign minister çavuşoğlu is defiantly stating in geneva that turkey will never withdraw turkish occupation troops from cyprus. at the same time, turkey continues its illegal occupation of 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus, as well as its threats within the cypriot eez. the report on turkey is being discussed at a time when ankara maintains the casus belli against greece, when turkey is violating greek airspace and the territorial waters of my country, when turkey is desecrating hagia sophia. the report is being discussed at a time when turkey is violating human rights and imprisoning thousands of dissidents, when turkey is murdering kurds, invading syria and iraq and supporting isis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the very fact that we are talking about accession negotiations with turkey again is a joke. this country is hostile to greece and cyprus, two member states of the union. the greek government has not yet taken any action to prevent the turkish government from using its influence to further the turkish cypriot policy. at the same time, european countries are still in a relationship with turkey to promote their own interests. turkey is a state of blackmail and terrorism and a direct threat to anyone who does not serve its interests. there is only one language turkey understands, the language of punch. stop the negotiations, stop the concessions and immediately impose sanctions that must not be lifted until turkey has lifted the casus belli against greece and until the last turkish soldier has left cyprus. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish people are not left behind, and that the turkish people are not left behind. the sultan's state has no place in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been saying since the beginning of my mandate that a policy of tolerance towards turkey would exacerbate the problems. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the situation has gotten out of control since the coup and turkey is now exporting its internal problems. the report rightly points to violations of european maritime and air borders, casus belli with a member state and threats to the eezs. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish government has not yet taken action against the turkish government. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be able to do so. i wonder, commissioner, what else the progress report should contain and what else should happen to bring the accession negotiations to a halt immediately.
in writing. this year's report on turkey effectively documents the country's serious backsliding on its path towards the european family. 2016 has been a difficult year for turkey as a result of the war in syria, the influx of hundreds of thousands of refugees, a series of brutal terrorist attacks and the failed coup attempt last july. however, president erdogan's reaction has once again taken europe by surprise. the measures taken after the coup were illegal. serious events followed, such as the closure of many media outlets, the arbitrary arrest of thousands of citizens, journalists, judges and human rights defenders, the closure of schools and universities that are not in line with western culture, violate human rights and call into question the rule of law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. turkey should decide whether it really wants to continue accession negotiations and stop undermining its accession prospects with talks on the reintroduction of the death penalty. in addition, international law, the sovereign rights and territorial integrity of greece and cyprus, which are being repeatedly and deliberately challenged with escalating violations and provocations, must finally be fully respected.
mr president, the proposed financial support for africa and third countries in europe's neighbourhood is based on the wrong premise. it is immoral to direct money to third countries on the basis of the saying 'money cannot buy happiness, but it can make misery more pleasant'. it is absurd to provoke illegal immigration by seeking cheap labour and a solution to europe's demographic problem, while blaming the countries of origin for their inability to keep citizens home. it is costly to effortlessly channel european taxpayers' money into these countries in advance and hope that migration flows, human rights violations and human trafficking will be reduced. the first is to deal with the continuing economic crisis in the countries of the european south, unless you consider these people to be third-class citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs. i think it's a serious issue that needs to be addressed. we have populations that really don't have access to energy. in greece in particular, there are thousands of households which at the moment, because of the policies of the troika, do not have access to electricity. we have over 100,000 households with power cut. these households don't even have access to heating. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the council to take action. that was the first issue. the second is immigration policy. if there is no serious intervention, we will continue to have huge migration flows into greece and italy, and the populations there cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants. the third is tax justice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i note the following: firstly, for those who are registered on the list of speakers and are to speak next, i will not give them a blue card, so that those who are not registered can also take advantage of the 'catch the eye' procedure. secondly, i will not give a second blue card to the same speaker and i also point out that those who use their blue card right from now on will not be selected for the 'catch the eye' procedure. i hope these arrangements will save us some time. the next speaker, mr weidenholzer, will speak for two minutes.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european union. secondly, we should remind certain members that, according to protocol 6, it is expressly stated that the european parliament has its seat in strasbourg, where the 12 sessions take place. the european parliament's committees are based in brussels and its secretariat is based in luxembourg. that's what the treaty says. the treaty also says that seats are decided by a joint decision of the governments and the french government has said that it will not change its mind, so it will not change anything. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to the question of the european parliament's role in the european union, and i would like to ask him to give us a clear answer to the question of the european parliament's role in the european union. so invest here in strasbourg and in the airport and in the rest of the infrastructure so that we have a serious presence.
the debate on the single seat of the european parliament is old, mr president, and it will certainly not be concluded, in my view, either today or in the foreseeable future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there is no doubt that the seat of the european parliament must be unified. at the moment all the european parliament's premises are in brussels and that is where i think the seat should be. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the fact that the seat is in brussels does not mean that it is centralised, it means that it is a rational approach.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item on the agenda is the report by mr younous omarjee on promoting cohesion and development in the outermost regions of the union: implementation of article 349 tfeu (2016/2250(ini)) (a8-0226/2017).
mr president, article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for a special regime for the outermost regions, and rightly so. but i would like to take this opportunity to say that, because of the insularity which is also mentioned in the treaty, the islands throughout the mediterranean, and in particular the islands of the aegean, the ionian and crete, should also be supported. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the mediterranean, and in particular the aegean islands, which are currently experiencing enormous migratory flows. but instead of supporting these islands, we have, on the orders of the troika, increased vat on the aegean islands. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. in this way we can really support regional development and cohesion in the mediterranean islands.
madam president, we extend our warmest condolences to the families of the victims of the devastating fires in portugal. we are also expressing our solidarity with the portuguese people and with the people of spain. the devastating fires are an opportunity to discuss again what the policy of the european union should be, because we had devastating fires last year in cyprus and greece. even now, at this very moment, we have devastating fires in mani and crete and i think the discussion highlights the tools that we need to use. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the support from the solidarity fund, but here we must point out that, unfortunately, in order to activate this fund the damage must be enormous and we must find other arrangements. i agree with the proposal that the cost of repairing the damage in portugal, as in other countries, should not be included in the deficit covered by the draconian stability pact.
madam president, commissioner, i too would like to express my heartfelt condolences to my portuguese colleagues for the dead of the recent fires and my sympathy for the injured. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the fires in the south of the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the measures to include the fires in the south of the community. we know that climate change has increased drought and temperatures and created winds in many areas. this, coupled with the fact that many citizens are building houses in or near forest areas without taking the necessary protective measures, unfortunately sets the stage for more such tragedies in the future. this must be avoided. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of fire in the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. forests are very important for the survival of the planet and we must protect them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, it should be made clear that multinationals will pay taxes where they make their profits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of goods and services is not subject to double taxation. i would like to point out to the rapporteur and the commissioner that we must also consider the case of natural persons, because many thousands of our fellow citizens have emigrated from the countries of the south to other areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's scientific research is not subject to double taxation. you also have to look at the issue of access to justice. in greece, in order to go to the tax courts, one must pay 30% of the state claim, and this does not make justice any easier.
madam president, for those of us who have been dealing with european union law for many years, the court's decision was expected, because there are areas of exclusive competence of the european union which are related to the conduct of trade policy, but there are also matters in which competence is involved, such as the judicial settlement of disputes, investment issues, as will be the future of compliance with labour legislation and as will be the environmental standards that may apply. i therefore consider that the situation is cleared up. what i have said since i came to this room in 2014 is that ceta, like ttip, is a mixed agreement and needs to be ratified by the member states as well. the commission knew this and did a trick, that is, it approved a provisional application of ceta, knowing that it needs ratification by all the member states and that the member states and parliaments must participate. this means that there must be no more lack of transparency in the negotiation of ceta and - above all - ttip.
mr president, the marrakesh treaty provides for provisions which are favourable to the blind, the blind-sighted or those with perceptual or reading disabilities, including dyslexia and other learning difficulties which prevent these people from reading publications with the same ease as people without disabilities. this directive is designed to fill in some of the gaps in the provisions for our fellow citizens facing these difficulties and to introduce a mandatory exception for certain rights of rightholders which have been harmonised by union law. particular care should be taken that the distribution, presentation or making available of accessible copies to persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print disabled or to authorised third-country entities should be carried out exclusively on a non-profit-making basis by distribution points established in the union. finally, it should be ensured that the parties provide financial and human resources to facilitate international cooperation between authorised entities and ensure the adequate availability of accessible format copies and the cross-border exchange of such copies.
mr president, the right to read and to know is a right of culture. we have technological development that gives us enormous possibilities. how long must people with visual impairments feel doubly excluded, because of their disability in the first place, but also because of the indifference of today's society to give them the rights enjoyed by their sighted fellow citizens? the support for the marrakesh treaty in its integration into european law is therefore a matter of social justice. ladies and gentlemen, i haven't always had a vision problem, and i understand the difference. so i know how beneficial it would be for all of us to be able to read and to overcome the darkness of vision through the light of reading.
mr president, we have discussed the need to implement the marrakesh treaty on several occasions in the committee on petitions, as we have received hundreds of petitions from our fellow citizens. we have also dealt with this issue here in the house and the progress made today is important because some member states did not want to proceed with the ratification of the marrakesh treaty and used various tricks. it is an important treaty, which really does provide a service to our fellow citizens who are blind or have visual or learning disabilities. it will now be possible for these people to have access to texts they otherwise would not have had, and thus their right to education and cultural goods will be strengthened. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the copyright holders are protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken this step. this is important and we must be careful because it requires immediate and unrestricted access.
mr president, commercial whaling has been banned worldwide by the moratorium imposed by the international whaling commission. but we see that countries like japan and norway are constantly breaking the law and violating the decisions of the international community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. for 2017, norway increased the quota for whaling from 880 to 999 minke whales. in fact, norway uses european union ports to export whale products to japan. how does the union allow whale meat to transit through european union ports when this requires the shipments to be accompanied by valid cites documents? who grants these documents? or is whale meat actually being traded without these documents, so that we have a breach of council regulation 338/1997?
mr president, we live in a time when the destruction of the planet and the environment is becoming irreversible. both scientists and environmental organizations warn. the effects are all we experience in our daily lives with climate change and global warming. to this destruction is added the greed of men, who in the face of profit respect nothing. whales are mammals that have been on the planet for millions of years and are known to be in danger of extinction due to pollution of the seas, but also due to overfishing. norway is once again beginning its most horrific ritual this year, the annual slaughter of hundreds of pregnant whales. every year, pregnant whales are chopped up to make cosmetics and animal feed. they consider the pregnancy of female whales to be a sign of good health. norway is the number one killer whale. this year the government announced that it intends to double the number of whales it kills. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted. norway has not been sanctioned for the mass murders it has committed. so today, we must all together send a loud message to norway, but also to wake up those who do not know about this crime.
madam president, it is a fact that human rights are being violated in china. the case of the imprisonment on vague and generic charges of two human rights and democracy activists, the chinese nobel laureate liú xiǎobō and the taiwanese li ming-che, is typical. in fact, the former suffers from advanced liver cancer and is not allowed to leave prison to go home or to a hospital in another country for treatment. last month, the greek government did not sign a european union letter to the un human rights council condemning china for its crackdown on dissidents and activists, and the letter was not released. this attitude of the greek government did not surprise me. recently, on the occasion of a minor incident, the speaker of the house banned all members of my party, golden dawn, the third political force in the country, from participating in the national delegations of the house. in this way the greek government has shown that it is possessed of a totalitarian mentality, that it adopts the unacceptable principle of collective responsibility and that it is killing democracy in the country in which it was born. i am sure you also condemn the chinese government's stance in the case of the two activists. do you find any mitigating factors in the attitude of the greek government ?
i want to support this resolution that we're passing today. it concerns two prisoners of conscience, mr antonios and mr isaak, but it must be said that overall the regime in eritrea is one of the worst in the world today. it is a regime that violates basic human rights in general, more or less treating citizens like slaves who have to join the army without specifying how long they have to serve. there are catastrophic conditions of liquidation of political opposition, journalists, representatives of the clergy and it is good that the resolution we are adopting today deals with the idea that we should really cancel economic support to this country because the money we send there will be stolen by a corrupt government, a corrupt president and will not get to the people. so i welcome the resolution and i'm glad that in addition to the fate of the two prisoners, which has been described in detail here, we are evaluating the overall situation in this unfortunate country.
madam president, the situation in eritrea is now out of control because of the political persecution of the regime and because of the indefinite compulsory military service. thus, over 400,000 people, or 9% of the country's population, have left eritrea by the day, increasing the refugee flows to europe. sexual violence, not only against women but also in the training camps, is on the agenda. at the same time, the scheme completes its control over the population by imposing a uniform income tax of 2%. victims of the regime include abune antonios, the patriarch of the eritrean orthodox church, the largest religious community, who has been detained for ten years, since 2007, for refusing to excommunicate 3,000 members of his parish who opposed the government. also, activist dawit isaak is also in custody. immediate release of all political prisoners!
madam president, we are once again in the same play as spectators for burundi. in the last two years we have dealt at least five times with the illegal activities of burundi's president nkurunziza, who is literally hooked on power. he is persecuting his political opponents - according to reports, 1,200 people have been killed and over 10,000 people have been tortured, while arrests of journalists, lawyers and activists are on the agenda. more than 400,000 people have fled burundi, 3 million of our fellow citizens are in need of humanitarian aid, and all this because nkurunziza is violating the cotonou agreement, violating the constitution and now wants to change the constitution and secure a fourth term as president of burundi, which of course is not acceptable to the citizens of burundi. we must therefore take measures and sanctions against nkurunziza and his entourage.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, every minute we are silent, a woman is a victim of psychological, sexual, verbal, gender and domestic violence. the istanbul convention can break the deafening silence. how did you do that ? ending impunity, protecting victims, preventing the various forms of violence. my colleagues, is it enough to ratify the convention as we obviously ask? of course you didn't. it is urgently needed and innovative measures must be taken. i propose that a pan-european helpline be set up to support victims of gender-based and domestic violence, something like the 112 telephone line. i call on the commissioner to consider the proposal. we must not forget that society prepares crime and the criminal commits it. victor hugo said it in les mis. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected.
madam president, i am aware that this is a violation of human rights and that it is necessary to take measures to protect the victims and to prevent, prosecute, combat and eliminate it. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the euro. the establishment of committees and groups of independent experts with the mandatory support of ngos that institute dangerous exceptions to the return of illegal immigrants or criminalize everyday life through abstract notions of moral harassment will complicate national legal frameworks for the respective criminal codes. if the aim is indeed to reduce violence and not to penalize it, i propose that binding obligations on women who are victims of domestic violence be extended without discrimination to men and that the commission should confine itself to ensuring practical international cooperation. all forms of physical and sexual violence, as well as related crimes, require the strictest possible criminal sanction, under the full jurisdiction of the member states.
mr president, we are discussing today the flagship case of domestic violence and violence against women. in fact, on 23 november 2016 i had the opportunity to speak here in strasbourg to the european parliament plenary on the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. at the same time, sexual harassment, rape and even sharia-based female genital mutilation continue to increase, leading to serious human rights violations. i believe that the accession of the european union to the convention under discussion in the council of europe will make a decisive contribution to the protection of minors and women against all forms of violence and will also lead to the prosecution of perpetrators. at the same time, however, the istanbul convention should not be used as a mechanism for the residence and non-refoulement of illegal immigrants, nor as a mechanism for the legalization of islamization in europe.
in writing. violence against women is unfortunately not yet eradicated from our societies. the figures speak for themselves, as one third of all women in europe have experienced physical or sexual violence at least once in their adult lives, 20% have been harassed online, one in 20 women has been raped and more than one in 10 have experienced physical violence. the istanbul convention takes a comprehensive and targeted approach to address violence against women, which is a violation of human rights and an extreme form of discrimination. it focuses on issues of violence against women and girls, including domestic violence, while promoting the rights of victims. the eu's accession to the istanbul convention ensures a coherent european legislative framework for preventing and combating violence against women, but it is not a panacea, as it does not relieve member states of the obligation to ratify the convention at national level. we must immediately stamp out all forms of gender-based violence, otherwise our societies will have failed in their supreme duty to protect citizens and their rights.
the fact that there is a debate on reducing carbon dioxide emissions from aviation at the moment is in itself extremely positive. the rapid growth of air transport in recent years has created an additional serious risk to the environment and unfortunately there are no easy solutions. all estimates foresee that the number of flights will increase even more in the near future, and technology does not offer us any viable alternative at the moment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, it merely transfers the problem and postpones its handling. in addition, with the rate of growth of most third countries, this system will soon become obsolete. in practice, it becomes a purely revenue-generating instrument with no significant environmental impact. only a technological revolution will solve the problem. so i like to think that the money that comes out of the rights auctions will go to research and technology development. in the meantime, however, we should all limit air transport to the minimum possible, and choose transport modes which are more environmentally friendly.
mr president, one third of the world's carbon dioxide emissions come from international aviation. in fact, as air travel increases, global carbon dioxide emissions will increase by 700% by 2050. the globalisation of the aviation sector requires the international community to develop a global system for regulating co2 emissions in this sector. so far, however, the united states, china and the other international polluters have been deaf to an international commitment, and this at a time when the united states is experiencing major natural disasters, precisely because of global warming. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the pollution of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
madam president, forests cover more than 42% of the land area of the european union and thus make a decisive contribution to mitigating climate change. this is recognised in the lulucf regulation. but that means that measures must be taken to protect forests, to support sustainable forestry and biodiversity. in recent times we have had devastating fires in greece, portugal and other countries of the south. the fire-fighting mechanisms therefore need to be reinforced, but also reforestation must be done. at the same time, forest maps should not be drawn arbitrarily and grassland and wetlands should also be recorded. accounting for managed forest land is necessary, as are logging products.
madam president, the forests, which, as has already been said, cover 42% of the surface of the european union, are an important factor in combating climate change and mitigating its effects, because they absorb and store about 10% of the carbon dioxide, which is one of the greenhouse gases, and in this way, as i said earlier, the impact of climate change is being addressed. in addition, forests help agriculture to meet ever-increasing food and feed needs and provide wood, which is a raw material for the bioeconomy. for all these reasons, both individual states and the european union as a whole should consider and rationally approach gastronomy and forestry in order to reap the greatest benefits, avoid forest destruction and meet the 2030 targets for tackling climate change.
madam president, transparency and accountability are the foundations of democracy and should characterize the functioning of the european union, and in particular of the commission. in addition, conflicts of interest such as the possibility for undertakings of officials of the european union to apply for union funds or to undertake subcontracting should be expressly prohibited. in addition, legislation is needed on the legal responsibilities of members of the commission, corresponding to the criminal responsibilities of member states' ministers. integrity and balance in the composition of expert groups should be put on the agenda and their cvs published. full transparency and access to documents. not this ttip disgrace. the role of the ombudsman is important, particularly in relation to the issue of 'revolving doors', as commissioners cannot, when they leave, be employed in private companies that were under their control. transparency in both the ecb and the national central banks, in particular with regard to what they buy under the quantitative easing (qe) programme.
it is a matter of common knowledge, madam president, that in the minds of the great majority of the peoples of the nations of the european union, both the leadership and those who make up the institutions of the union have been discredited. unfortunately, this position is justified, because many of the above-mentioned have shown by their conduct that they are not interested only in the interests of the union. they are only interested in themselves, in how to break the law, how to get bribes, how to set up bank accounts in tax havens and, in general, how to serve their own interests rather than the interests of the whole. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the initiatives of the european parliament in this field. if this does not happen, then we must not ask why the european union has been so discredited in the eyes of its peoples.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's space policy is not disrupted by the threat of nuclear accidents. that would be irresponsible. decisions on space have a direct impact on the security of countries, but may also have long-term consequences for the natural environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's space programme is implemented. space technologies have added value for many sectors, such as telecommunications and transport. the european union must therefore stop treating space with the same ideological bias as it treats the other areas of common action. first of all, space policy involves research, that is, the development of human resources. finally, the european union must cooperate in the field of space not only with the united states and japan but also with other space powers such as china, india and russia, in order to maximise the results in cutting-edge space technology and also to put all this at the service of humanity.
the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. it has now been approached, explored and exploited in order to bring benefits to society. space affects our daily lives, provides access to technological achievements, supplies us with information via the satellites installed in it and, in general, could also create jobs if used in the right way. above all, however, space also affects politics and, for this very reason, a careful strategic planning must be made for its constructive use by the european union in cooperation with other countries which have the capacity to develop technology, to exploit the advantages of this planning and generally to promote the dimension of success and perspective in matters concerning its relationship with the world.
the free trade agreements, madam president, have essentially dismantled the economies of the developed countries and at the same time opened up markets where the exploitation of the people for a piece of bread by the multinationals prevailed. and that's clear and obvious. so it is time to take action. we must therefore put considerable pressure on the countries where the products of the multinationals are produced, first of all to ensure that they comply with labour legislation and have acceded to the conventions of the international labour organisation. secondly, there should be a clause to protect human rights. in addition, there must be a clause on environmental compliance. we must not allow child labour and exploitation and forced labour. i think that these are essential elements in order to be able to have a different view of international trade.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. at the same time, they support the development process itself. in fact, lifelong learning, in combination with distance learning, are important tools in equipping women with skills and thus giving them the opportunity to return to employment and improve their capabilities in the work process. distance learning is also important for people with disabilities, who are not easily moved. at the same time, the educational process, which is adapted to the needs of the pupils themselves, helps to combat the phenomenon of school dropout. in addition, there should be procedures to support the skills of the trainers themselves and, finally, we should find a system which contributes to the recognition of professional qualifications at european union level.
madam president, high-speed public accessibility is an indicator of the effectiveness of public administration's electronic services with free and unrestricted easy access, with geographical balance ensuring coherence, with fair distribution of capacity among users and with the adoption of optimal and adaptive technological options. the non-commercial nature of targeted intervention, the limited financial resources and the administrative burden on local public services require that bureaucracy be broken. however, the promoted use of the 'coupon' system and the sample control do not in practice ensure sound financial management. the rules for effective public financing shall be ensured through long-term viable and sustainable actions, with a view to maximum interoperability. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure that the digital divide is not exacerbated.
mr president, natural gas is the most important factor, not only for the economy of the european union but also for the survival of the inhabitants of large areas in difficult weather conditions. for this reason, the security of gas supply is a key objective of the european union's energy strategy. at present, 50% of the gas consumed is produced from natural sources. the remainder is supplied by third countries, mainly russia. in order to avoid the effects of a possible disruption of this gas supply, the european union must rely on gas production from domestic sources. the european union has a first-class opportunity to exploit the large gas reserves in the aphrodite field in cyprus, as well as in the herodos basin south of crete and in other areas of greece. if it succeeds in this, and with proper supply route planning, it will be able to achieve energy security in natural gas.
mr president, this is a huge food scandal with millions of suspected fipronil-contaminated eggs being circulated across europe and it turns out that in both belgium and the netherlands the competent national authorities have been aware of this since at least the end of 2016. so the system didn't work. but as far as greece is concerned, mr andriukaitis, after my continuous interventions, it was revealed that the materials were imported into greece from france, three hundred kilos of powder from egg whites contaminated with fipronil, and while i was asking for the recall of the eggs and the entire suspect batch, in the end the competent greek authorities did not do so and informed in a statement that the suspect batch of three hundred kilos of powder from egg whites was used by a greek company and mixtures were created in a ratio of one hundred, one hundred in which the concentration of fipronil, eff says, is not dangerous. you hear things! so we ask, what is this greek company that did this? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what measures will you take? it is unacceptable what is happening in greece and throughout europe!
mr president, the internet connection of local communities is an important initiative. it should of course ensure universal access, without exclusion for social and economic reasons, but also for reasons of geographical distance. this is particularly true of the aegean islands, such as agathonis, a very small island with 154 inhabitants which is constantly threatened by turkey. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. we must of course take into account that the money must reach these small communities and the system must be such as to ensure accessibility for all. i think that the fact that there is a view that 'first come first served' - that is, whoever comes first and asks for the money will get the money - will actually empower the communities that are more prepared, at the expense of the communities that are not so ready. at the same time, the system must also support rural areas, secure funds and, of course, provide free access as provided for in the regulation.
mr president, commercial whaling has been banned worldwide by a moratorium imposed by the international whaling commission. and yet, despite this, japan and especially norway are constantly breaking the law and violating the decisions of the international community. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. for 2017, we have specific complaints: norway increased the whaling quota from 880 to 999 whales. in fact, norway also uses european union ports to export whale products to japan. how is this whale meat moving through european union ports? are the regulations, in particular regulation 338 of 1997, being complied with? i voted in favour of the report because i think it deals with the issue of illegal whaling by norway.
mr president, globalisation, the opening up of markets, neoliberalism and the operation of outsourcing have, in essence, succeeded in, firstly, disrupting the economies of the developed countries and, at the same time, effectively enslaving the people of the developing countries where the multinationals have decided to transfer production processes, leading to deindustrialization of the developed countries and, at the same time, investing in the developing world, where everyone is working for a piece of bread. and there the big multinationals are not even enforcing labour rights, they are not enforcing the regulations and conventions of the international labour organization, they are not respecting environmental standards, they are putting children to work, they are exploiting everybody, and i think that this has to be addressed with concrete measures by the european union, but also by the global community.
in writing. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine and the common organization of the market in wine, as amended by the council, is designed to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the common organisation of the market in wine and the common organisation of the market in wine. but that is not the way to deal with the economic crisis or the refugee crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. greece has spent over 2.5 billion euros to deal with the refugee crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but there is unfair competition and impunity for companies from major arms exporting states, which are involved in scandals and illegal financing to secure corresponding contracts. the implementation of an eu arms export area will not provide solutions in this direction, but will create obstacles to cross-border sales of defence arms and to sales to third countries. the european defence industry, as a vital factor in the credibility of the nascent common security and defence policy, is doomed to failure because of the existence of different defence objectives among member states and the simultaneous absence of common defence orientations. the union's complete absence from the field of action in response to turkey's aggression against greece and the republic of cyprus is proof of this.
madam president, the european union has rightly supported the un sanctions against north korea. but it is a utopia to think that these sanctions will lead north korea to abandon its nuclear programme. for several years now north korea has been taking slow, steady, decisive and effective steps to build up nuclear capabilities. its leader, kim jong un, is not foolish enough to think that he can declare nuclear war against the united states and the international community. but the fate of saddam and gaddafi has convinced him that to save himself as an individual, as a regime, and as a country he must rely on his nuclear power and blackmail, threaten, and seek to come to talks with the international community. the european union can make a decisive contribution to this dialogue and to the defusing of the crisis.
the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. in the aegean islands, migration flows from turkey have increased. on lesvos, chios, samos, the unshakable is now the rule. migration flows have increased as generous benefits are now being given to refugees and mainly illegal immigrants coming from turkey. benefits include cash withdrawal cards of €400 per month, free housing and medical care, and promises to provide state-owned farmland for farming. at the same time, asylum procedures and deportations are proceeding at a rapid pace. finally, the programme of 66,400 resettlements, which is due to expire in a few days, has been implemented at a rate of about 18%, as france, germany and other countries have not fulfilled their obligations, while some eastern european countries, despite the relevant decision of the court of justice of the european union, refuse to accept any resettlement. the aegean islands cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants.
madam president, two years into the refugee crisis, we're looking for a comprehensive plan. agreements like turkey seem to be unworkable and impossible to implement in countries like libya. according to official figures, 5,800 refugees are trapped on the island of mytilene alone. the recent decision of the court to reject the application of slovakia and hungary is a message of solidarity. however, only 19,000 of the 63,000 refugees have been relocated from greece to a member state. at the same time, dublin-based repatriation to greece has started, further complicating the situation. mrs. mogherini, i would like to ask you: the informal agreement of the greek minister of immigration with his german counterpart, which limits refugee family reunification to 70 per month, increasing the agony and anguish of 2,700 refugees, is legal, as you recently answered me, but is it moral?
madam president, despite all the fine words of the high representative, it does not take much political experience to see that migration is the biggest failure of the european union's foreign policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a failure that has flooded europe and especially the countries of entry with millions of illegal immigrants, jihadist terrorists who kill, rape, terrorize and threaten the very existence of europe. a failure that ultimately divided europe. and what are the latest developments? italy has become an international tourist office transporting mainly illegal migrants from libya inland and greece a vast camp of poor people who are suffering the local populations and have no future to hope for. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
madam president, thousands of refugees and migrants remain on the greek islands, twice as trapped in miserable conditions as a result of the european union-turkey agreement, which is part of the intensifying imperialist rivalries, while the european union, under the pretext of refugees, is promoting businesses and armies in africa and the middle east for the interests of capital. in the greek islands, although some ngo contracts concerning at least medical care have not been renewed, but with the responsibility of the government and the european union, the long-term nakedness and the huge shortages in state hospitals and infrastructure put the health of refugees, migrants, and the local population at immediate risk. the unofficial agreement between germany and greece on family reunification, which limits the number of family reunifications to 70 per month, is an unspeakable tragedy and barbarity, and 2,700 families will be subjected to the torture of the drop for years. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights and the movement of all refugees to their countries of destination are immediately guaranteed, that the people confront the reactionary policy of the european union and its governments, and that they condemn capitalism, which brings poverty, misery, war and refugees.
mr president, the long negotiations with turkey so far have produced certain certain conclusions: the first is that turkey is only interested in serving its national interests and has no interest in being consistent with the commitments it has made to the european union in order to become a member. secondly, when the european union points out all this to turkey, it becomes angry and threatens and blackmails. finally, the president of turkey has no hesitation in violating human rights, persecuting political opponents, imprisoning publishers, journalists, politicians, military and anyone who does not agree with his views. in view of the above, the most pragmatic way of dealing with turkey's problem is for the european union to make it clear that it does not intend to accept turkey as a member. if this is done, turkey will change its behaviour and find that it has no room to behave in a way that is unacceptable and hinders the european union's foreign policy. the european union must have a special relationship with turkey.
mr president, no state can join the european union if it does not respect the basic democratic principles. it is obvious to everyone in this room that the erdogan regime is moving further and further away from these fundamental principles. the european parliament has already stated in its decision to call for the suspension of the accession negotiations that turkey's accession is therefore becoming impossible. this means that pre-accession financial assistance should also be stopped immediately: 636 million euros for the year 2017 alone, goes to the erdogan regime to fund various actions such as attacks against kurds, torture of political prisoners and more. the european union must not allow this to happen, because otherwise the union is complicit in what mr erdogan and his subordinates are doing.
mr president, over the years, important chapters of the negotiations have remained closed. we have, in fact, only interfered in a technocratic, pointless, uninspired way with the accession process. many hoped for turkey's non-compliance and others were entrenched behind the substantive objections of cyprus. but every year that didn't open up chapter 24 on justice, the situation today got closer. and as long as he did not open chapter 23 of the fundamental rights, it was easier for erdogan to strengthen his sovereignty at the expense of the kemal establishment which, with its mistakes and arrogance, helped him to be considered the reformer of a rotten regime. but even now, when many are calling for a break with turkey by playing hand-to-hand with erdogan in the game of counter-intervention, we can reverse this course. let us put democracy, the rule of law, the customs union and the accession process all together on the table, raising the cost of erdogan's refusal to an unthinkable height. we owe the turkish people a hand of solidarity and better living conditions. let us press for a way out because by leaving we are leaving turkey alone in its incredible and dangerous dead-ends and the heavy price will be paid by all of us together.
mr president, commissioner, you have confused us. parliament is issuing a series of resolutions condemning the situation in turkey and even calling for the suspension of the accession negotiations, and on the other hand mrs merkel and her officials are declaring, for electoral reasons, that turkey will not join the european union, when a short while ago they were praising their cooperation with the erdoğan government. the european council has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism, and for the eu to take action to combat terrorism. can you tell us whose position you are taking? you realize, of course, that this long-standing but deliberate 'clash' over who will be responsible for the breakdown of the negotiations gives turkey years and alibis to continue its policy, leading your own policy to a dead end. so if your policy were dictated by european principles and values, you would have already suspended the accession negotiations. but unfortunately, your policy, both within and outside the european union, has nothing to do with these values.
mr president, we are continuing the debate which ended a few weeks ago and it is quite clear that the situation in turkey has not changed, but has, on the contrary, deteriorated. i repeat here that i believe that the negotiations with turkey on accession to the european union should be suspended, and that should be the clear conclusion of the european parliament to the leaders who will be debating this matter in a few weeks' time. unlike some of my colleagues, i do not think there is a need to deepen economic cooperation with turkey. if we go deeper, like at the customs level, we're not helping the half of turkish society that rejects erdogan, but we're helping the president as such. this means that institutional cooperation should not expand and the money we send to turkey should be sent to those who suffer under the regime, strengthen civil society, but the regime itself in no way, please, do not support and do not strengthen in the future.
the european union must not allow the turkish authorities to continue to use the turkish language in the face of the turkish authorities. the european union must not tolerate the illegal behaviour of turkey, which daily violates greek airspace and territorial waters, threatens greece with casus belli and calls into question the greek nature of the aegean islands by promoting grey zones. the european union must not tolerate the illegal occupation of 37% of the territory of cyprus by turkish troops who are also violating the eez of cyprus. the european union must therefore impose tough measures and sanctions against turkey, calling on ankara to stop its threats against greece and to withdraw immediately the turkish occupation troops from cyprus. in addition, the eu-turkey accession negotiations and the negotiations on the customs union must be stopped immediately, all eu funding must be stopped, and the sale of arms to turkey by the eu member states must be banned. it's the only way the sultan will get the message.
mr president, relations between the european union and latin america must be based on democracy, human rights, the rule of law and equal economic relations. relations which serve the mutual economic interest of our peoples. on the contrary, experience to date shows that european multinationals exploit the peoples of latin america, as the spanish and portuguese colonialists did in the past. and now the european union is entering the second round, competing with china on latin american soil for profit. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a welcome step towards the creation of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. in addition, tax evasion and tax avoidance by multinationals must be tackled, measures against corruption must be taken, and measures to crack down on drug trafficking must be taken. the european union is also committed to the development of the latin american region, and we are convinced that this is the only way to strengthen relations between the european union and latin america.
mr president, the european union-india relations must be based on mutual interest, away from invasive policies which may remind the people of india of past practices. the signing of a free trade agreement with the second most populous country in the world will contribute to the further deindustrialization of europe, to the reduction of european wages, to the closure of thousands of european smes, and this because european multinationals will continue the policy of outsourcing. they will transfer their activities to the vast indian market, where there are starvation wages, child labour, the over-exploitation of women, the violation of labour rights, safety and hygiene conditions and the systematic violation of environmental conditions. the european union's trade relations with india must depend on the elimination of these unfair practices in india and on the respect and protection of human rights in that country.
member of the commission. – mr president, our discussion takes place shortly before the annual eu-india summit that will be held in new delhi in early october. i am happy to say that the report itself, and its assessments and recommendations, correspond to the intentions and activities of the european external action service as well as of the commission. it definitely demonstrates the coherence of the eu policy approach towards india across the board. i would like, of course, to praise the work of the rapporteur, mr cristian preda, who has my most definite congratulations. as the world’s largest democracies, the eu and india are important natural partners and, in the context of the current global uncertainties, we have a particular responsibility to protect and promote the rules-based international order. the eu global strategy recognises that there is a direct connection between european prosperity and asian security, and we plan to boost our security-related cooperation with asia, and with india in particular. in fact, at the end of august, we already held the first foreign policy and security consultations in new delhi, as well as three very productive security dialogues – counter—terrorism, cybersecurity and maritime – agreeing on specific actions for eu-india cooperation in these areas. during her visit to india last april, high representative federica mogherini had the opportunity to discuss eu-india cooperation with the prime minister, the minister of external affairs and other officials. they agreed to enhance the ‘natural’ eu-india strategic partnership, based on common values, principles and interests, particularly the joint commitment to multilateralism. last week in bled the high representative met once again with the indian minister of state mr akbar, including for discussions on preparations for the eu-india summit. we want to make the summit another milestone in the eu-india relationship to further develop our political, economic and sectoral cooperation. the last eu-india summit instilled a new momentum in the strategic partnership. several political visits to india supported the implementation of the last summit’s conclusions, including the visits of commission vice—president katainen in november 2016 and commissioner vella in october 2016, as well as the high representative’s visit in april this year. we have been working on the last summit’s outcomes, particularly the eu-india clean energy and climate partnership and the eu-india water partnership, and on cooperation on research and innovation, launching the eu-india start-up network last october. in march 2017, the president of the european investment bank opened a regional office in new delhi, further strengthening the european union’s presence in india and the wider region. the european union plays a more and more important role as a partner in india’s ambitious modernisation agenda. we intend to deepen our cooperation in the area of urban development and further strengthen our cooperation on climate change. both the european union and india share a commitment to the paris agreement and its implementation and will continue to work together to realise its objectives. the european union is india’s first trading partner and there is significant untapped potential in the eu-india trade and investment relationship. for this reason, the commission remains engaged with india to seek to agree on the parameters for the resumption of ambitious negotiations on a free trade agreement. despite numerous efforts, it has not been possible to make progress with india in this domain in time for the summit, but discussions continue. looking ahead, the report recommends the adoption of a new eu strategy for its relations with india and, again, i can assure you that we have already started working on a strategic review of eu-india relations. the report and today’s discussions represent a valuable contribution to this initiative. last but not least, allow me to congratulate you also on the positive impact of the visits of several of parliament’s delegations to india this year and the strengthening of ties with the indian parliament. i would like to encourage you to maintain these regular contacts, including at the highest level.
mr president, the fight against corruption and human rights violations in third countries must be the first priority of our peoples. land grabbing is unfortunately a daily practice in africa, latin america and asia. land grabbing by european, american and chinese multinationals that drive out the indigenous people. corruption in developing countries is a fertilizer for human trafficking and the exploitation of children. in addition, the violations of other human rights are on the agenda, not only by the governments of third countries but also by the multinationals, which have mercenaries and private armies to enforce their interests. finally, the holding of free elections and the maintenance of democracy will unfortunately be an issue for many decades in many developing countries.
mr president, the sixth scenario we have heard about the future of europe - the european union, not europe - is another attempt to find a compromise in the fierce competition developing within the european union and the eurozone, given germany's lead over the others. at the same time, with the complicity of all states, whether over-indebted or not, governments, in the name of growth, are pushing hard and barbaric anti-worker equalization measures downwards - in greece, france, italy, everywhere - with tax breaks and subsidies to big capital and its profitability. the debate on strengthening the european union marks the major contradictions of the european union with the united states, china, russia and britain. the hypocritical declarations of peace cannot hide the fact that the european union is actively participating in imperialist wars and is intensively preparing for new ones. the european union of monopolies is only getting worse, more reactionary, more unpopular. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people.
president juncker, the people expect us to put our own europe on the front line against populism and extremism. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. only then will there be prosperity for all. the union's finance minister must monitor the consistent application of the rules and reward progress by encouraging citizens. our europe must be fortified against terrorism. the automatic exchange of information was delayed, as was the creation of the european information service. our europe is hosting millions of refugees, but at the same time the member states must share the responsibility and, when they do not, face sanctions. you also owe a good speech to the greeks, president juncker, who, together with the italians, have assumed the historic responsibility of welcoming the refugees. our europe must give young people sustainable jobs and this is certainly not achieved by cutting research budgets.
finally, mr juncker, after the five scenarios for change in the european union, you have added a sixth scenario. the continuation of the same politics, with the same institutions and the same balances of the old political world. the policy of a german europe, the policy of austerity and the draconian stability pact, the undemocratic eurozone with the uncontrollable eurogroup and the all-powerful european central bank. the european union of the 'bankruptcy' and the new european monetary fund, as hard and unpopular as the european stability mechanism (esm). the european union's 'outsourcing', ttip and ceta which lead to the deindustrialisation of europe and the 'chinisation' of european wages. the european union's policy on youth unemployment and marginalization. the european union is flooded with millions of refugees and illegal immigrants. mr juncker, europe's demographic problem is linked to poverty and unemployment and will not be solved by mass migration flows and 'muslimisation'. it will be solved by a policy which supports the european family.
president juncker, the real situation in europe is not what you have described. the workers in the union are seeing their wages and benefits fall. the pensioners see in the new union finance minister new pension cuts. the unemployed see in the union budget the 'carrot' of private investment to create jobs, but at the same time the 'whip' of wage cuts and breaches of labour and legal protection. mr juncker, in your sermons and hymns on democracy, yours and mr macron's recently in athens, european citizens see the violation of democracy, the burial of the greek people's referendum of 2015 and the statements of your commissioner, mr moscovici, who described the imposition of austerity in greece as scandalous from the point of view of the democratic process. mr president, we want a europe of sovereign states on the basis of equality and democracy, a europe in which we cooperate on economic, industrial and environmental matters, but for the benefit of the peoples and at the expense of the multinationals, and, of course, a europe of peace and friendship and not a europe of armaments and wars.
mr president, may i say goodbye to mr juncker? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the record of the achievements of the current european commission is more poverty, unemployment, illegal immigration, uprooting of young people through internal migration and the blood of innocent people by jihadist islamists. but a greater achievement is the complete absence of democracy. any opposing view is singled out and targeted as nationalistic and populist. the political elites of europe cannot tolerate criticism. but you are resilient and unmoved by the disastrous results of your globalized policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the greeks, the italians, the french, the hungarians, the poles and even the british who voted to leave the union do not want more or less europe, but a europe that is fairer, more democratic, safer and with respect for the national sovereignty and integrity of the member states.
mr president, we voted today to introduce the emissions trading system in aviation. as president juncker said today in his state of the union address, global issues such as tackling climate change, the refugee crisis and the fight against tax evasion by large multinationals can only be tackled with more political integration. i therefore welcome his commitment to abolish unanimity in the council for the adoption of legislation on taxation. wealth should be taxed where it is produced. any windows which allow tax competition between member states and the legal tax avoidance of companies must be closed. only then will we have the economic means to tackle social inequalities, youth unemployment and support for health and education. the rule of law and transparency are not optional but are an obligation for all.
the next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects pursuant to rule 153a of the rules of procedure: dieselgate: strengthening eu standards on the environment, health and consumer rights in the light of recent actions by member states, including germany and austria [2017/2835 (rsp) ] ] i would like to inform the members that there will be no 'catch the eye' procedure for this debate and no blue card questions will be accepted as we have an extensive list of registered speakers and we must be able to speak with the expected comfort.
mr president, the recent incidents in which we have lost human lives have shown the need to review the entire legal framework on fire safety by the member states of the european union. first, we should push towards the use of new materials which will significantly reduce the risk of both fire origination and its spread in the event of an accident. a new test methodology needs to be defined which realistically represents the behaviour of materials in practice and is not just a sterile or ideal laboratory test. we should also bear in mind that the greatest proportion of deaths in fires is due to inhalation of toxic fumes, at a rate of 60%. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the same is not true of the risk of fire transmission through the generation of flammable particles where the current regulatory framework is lacking. finally, i propose the immediate creation of a national fire safety body, in those countries where it does not already exist, which will check the quality of the materials used in the construction of buildings and will also be responsible in the event of an accident.
mr president, a fire that started in the kitchen of an apartment in london and led to the deaths of dozens of civilians has been the reason for our discussion today on fire safety in buildings. but the fire started by molotov cocktails thrown by anti-authoritarians, pampered children of the ruling party in greece, at the marfin branch in 2010 during the riots in athens because of the memoranda imposed on my country, greece, and during which three young people and an unborn child were killed, did not move anyone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not only effective but also effective. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not only effective but also effective.
the committee on petitions' opinion was drawn up on the basis of the following four points: mr president, we have been calling for years for the implementation of the european accessibility act to improve the lives of the disabled - 80 million of our fellow citizens with problems - and the elderly in a europe that is rapidly ageing. the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one, and i think it is a good one. why did this happen? the report deals only with the views of the market lobbyists and not with the demands of the disabled. colleagues, this can change now, it's not too late. dear colleagues, you make a difference. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the consumer is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a step in the right direction.
mr president, accessibility of products and services for disabled people is an important fact that we must take seriously. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a matter of great importance, of social importance, of economic importance. and most importantly, there are specific rights for disabled people that must be guaranteed. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's social policy is not only a policy of social cohesion, but also a policy of social cohesion. but we see that there are forces which do not want that access. they think that people with disabilities are a burden. they feel that the arrangements that will be made will be a financial burden on them. these measures are unacceptable in limiting and impeding the activities of disabled people, particularly in their access to public transport and other services. we must reverse these negative aspects of the report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the greek people have paid dearly for the mismanagement of the governments and eurostat in the way they record military expenditure, hospital debts, and the integration of state-owned companies and institutions into the general government. in 2010, the then president of the greek statistical office, mr. georgiou, eurostat and the troika increased greece's budget deficit in a way that violates both greek and european legislation. the greek judiciary has convicted the president of the greek statistical service committee. the commission and the european institutions, commissioner, instead of examining the matter on the basis of the reliability of the statistics, are blackmailing greece into intervening in the judiciary in order to exonerate mr georgiou, close the case and forget the biggest european scandal of manipulation of statistics. the greek people and the european citizens have the right to reliable statistics and not to the political games of governments and troika which are aimed at justifying the austerity measures they impose.
mr president, the intimidation and manipulation of the peoples of europe, and especially of the british people, before the referendum, has failed miserably, and the falsified statistics show it. statistics and data science are methodological mathematical tools whose ultimate purpose is to draw reliable conclusions for making sound decisions. on the contrary, in the union, statistical programmes are used as propaganda tools, as machines for creating scandals and even as a means of deliberately manipulating member states and their peoples. for example, the injection of funds into many areas is worthless simply because artificially shaped public opinion has been manipulated as to their usefulness. the scandalous achievement of the convergence criteria for the applicant countries, which were far removed from reality, is a clear proof of this. the real benefit for decision-makers, researchers and citizens of the union in general is not the quality of the data but its accuracy and validity.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we need to support start-ups, young entrepreneurship, innovation. the commission proposal is a step forward, and the european parliament's proposal, with the contribution of mrs pietikäinen and the shadow rapporteurs, improves the commission proposal. but we need to run faster because the gap between supporting innovation and young entrepreneurship and start-ups in europe, compared to other economies, remains large. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we can reduce the cost of red tape even further. to make it easier for people who have great ideas but don't have the capital to make them happen. and we need to care more about the countries that suffer the most -- like my country, greece -- from the recession, where great minds are migrating abroad because their country's banking system doesn't have the capacity to support entrepreneurial ideas. so we need more steps and more europe in this area. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer "blue card". mr coburn, you who think that the european union is like the soviet union, it is reasonable to think that helping young people to develop start-ups is dangerous and wrong. you may believe in unregulated jungle capitalism. i disagree with you, i disagree with you. and as for criticism of governments, you may be right to criticize the government of your country.
mr president, the banks have not recovered from the economic crisis and what they are doing, of course, is not giving capital to small start-ups to grow. it is therefore necessary to create an internal market for capital within the european union and in this process there should be a facility for the establishment of venture capital companies and european social entrepreneurship funds to support start-ups in all countries and, in particular, in greece. but where, in greece, should i point out that the bank of greece, which is participating in quantitative easing, has spent 42.5 billion euros, whereas part of this money should have found a way to be spent on corporate procedures, that is, on corporate bonds, and, above all, through this process to support the new small and mediumsized enterprises, which need to be financed in order to finally have growth in greece, which has been hit by the tough troika policy, and at the moment we have millions of unemployed.
mr president, hurricane irma was truly devastating. we should express our condolences to the families of the victims who have suffered these irreparable damages, and say that these disasters are caused by global warming. the planet is taking its revenge, and taking its revenge, first and foremost, on those who are the world's polluters. we cannot forget the great disasters in the united states where they must realize that they must join and remain in the paris convention for the protection of the environment. the second point is, of course, that we have major disasters in st martin and st bartholomew and, of course, the solidarity fund can be clearly mobilised. the solidarity fund is mobilized when there are huge disasters. unfortunately, we've had some pretty big disasters here. but the solidarity fund can be mobilised to support our fellow citizens there. of course, this also applies to the dutch side of st. maarten, although it is not formally part of the whole system. i think that the european parliament should be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union, and i think that the european parliament should be able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union.
mr president, from what i can see we may be facing a repeat of the 'cod war' that took place in the late 1970s when great britain was now transitionally joining the european union. we are already seeing contradictions between representatives, scottish mps, and those who supported brexit. secondly, this plan is essentially the same as the baltic plan. the conditions have been created there and if we do not discuss these plans, they will now be implemented in other areas. thirdly, there is a serious problem with recreational fishing. it must be dealt with. there's been a lot of thinking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not disrupted. the socioeconomic impact has also not been taken into account. there are too many problems with this proposal. i hope by tomorrow most of it will be settled.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the erasmus programme. this is shown by the process followed for 30 years: it has strengthened education and training, it has supported universities, it has supported students, it has supported mobility and, i would say, the economy. but it needs further funding. what we're seeing is a bleeding. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, refugees and migrants, who have funds to be financed from other sources, are also included as beneficiaries within erasmus, thus reducing the final number of beneficiaries. in our view, erasmus must be adapted to the economic needs of each country, it must be a breath of fresh air for young people in greece who are suffering from the memoranda and unemployment, young people in greece who see their dreams disappear, who are now forced to emigrate because of the troika and the creditors. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to help young people in greece, and i am sure that the commission will be able to help them in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is thanks to this that our young people are studying and working in a europe without frontiers. they find new opportunities and open their horizons. within three decades, millions of citizens were involved in these programs. most of them, rest assured, would not have had the opportunity or the financial means to study abroad without erasmus. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. we must, however, give the younger generation even more opportunities. we must highlight any initiative that supports employment, schools, universities and sport. the erasmus programme must be made accessible to more of our fellow citizens, to more organisations, to sports federations, for example, which are unable to meet basic needs for the development and mobility of national teams. in my country, since 2014, about 12,000 people have participated in projects with a total cost of 23 million euros. every euro of this, rest assured, will bring multiple benefits both for greece and for europe as a whole. the erasmus programme is a real investment for our young people. we all have to support it. we owe it to the younger generation.
commissioner, i am a great supporter of trade agreements and i am very pleased that this example of the trade agreement with chile clearly shows how beneficial those agreements are, as my colleagues have already said, to double trade while the agreement is in existence. we were here last summer to review a trade agreement with south korea, which has also led to a multi-fold increase in trade between the two countries. that means that it is clear that this is the right policy direction and i am glad that mr juncker has paid particular attention this morning to trade agreements with third countries, with countries which are our partners. chile is clearly our important partner in latin america and i look forward to the newly revised agreement coming into force quickly and in a few years we will evaluate how this new version of the trade agreements with chile has been beneficial and how it has strengthened economic ties but also ties in other areas, such as trade in bio-products.
mr president, the chilean people are a good people and they have suffered enough. i think he needs our support. however, the modernisation of the trade agreement, while raising interesting issues such as the issue of gender equality, has in fact been contaminated by the ttip and ceta agreements and brings back issues on which we have had many discussions and raised objections: firstly, it essentially abolishes the judicial system of the member states and reintroduces the well-known system of private arbitration, which is unacceptable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the trick played on ceta will not be repeated, that it will be applied provisionally until it has been ratified by all the member states. in addition, there is a lack of transparency in the negotiations. there is no protection of public goods and, finally, this agreement follows the classic model: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the skills of workers must be improved and updated to meet the changing realities of our century. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the commission's new skills agenda with its neoliberal approach fails in both. it puts the focus on profitability and competitiveness of enterprises rather than the real needs of society and workers. it shifts the burden from the holistic form to simple and purposeful skills based on market demands alone. it turns studies into educational products and proposes the commercialization and privatization of education. it further reforms industrial relations and promotes flexible forms of precarious work under the guise of training. it pretends that the huge unemployment and brain drain that plague the countries of the south are not the result of policies but of a poorly trained and skilled workforce. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, european education and training systems must adapt to the rapidly changing economic, technological and social environment in order to respond to the real needs of citizens and to national priorities. education and lifelong learning are called upon to address challenges such as highly specialised skills, the digital environment, the specificities of people with disabilities, poverty and unemployment. a web of educational systems and methods without strategic background and moral principles leads to disaster. the development of capacities and the maximisation of the potential of citizens must be carried out in parallel with the cultivation of morality and virtue. otherwise, there is a danger that the knowledge acquired will be used for anti-social or illegal, or even extreme, activities. love of country, love of family and love of christianity, especially for greece, are above and beyond any other skills and these are the focus of this agenda if we are to educate european citizens and not passively adapt them to the present times.
madam president, the unemployment which is affecting the european union, as well as the deregulation of labour relations and the reduction of wages, will all be tackled by changing policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the creation of a 'reserve army' of refugees and illegal immigrants, most of whom work illegally, is of course contributing to the reduction of wages and thus reducing wages. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the pursuit of the activities of selfemployed persons and selfemployed persons in the field of employment is a good one. the main role must of course be played by the member states, but to do this we need funds, and the european union can provide these funds. at the same time, education can help to create a democratic society, but there must be equal opportunities for all those who need it to access it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the problem is that the theory is far from the practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the young people of europe need to find work. unfortunately, that is not possible or not easy. for this reason they are exploited by employers who force them to work long hours, do not pay them according to their qualifications and abilities and education, and often threaten them with dismissal because there are others waiting to take their place. the tragic victims of these developments are the young people of greece who, despite their education and skills, because of the presence of many illegal immigrants who want to work under miserable conditions and with very low wages, are forced to move many times outside europe with all the consequences that arise.
madam president, it is very easy to see that behind your objections to the nord stream pipeline are none other than the interests of the united states of america. you say that we must diversify the sources from which the union gets its natural gas. the pipeline does not prevent the exploitation of other deposits discovered, some of which are in union countries such as greece and cyprus. on the contrary, it is turkey that is doing everything possible to prevent the mining. the european union is the one that is supporting the american aggressive policy against russia. the union financed and organised the coup in ukraine that overthrew its legally elected government. it is the union that supported the graphic saakashvili against russia. on the contrary, when the union, at the request of the americans, imposed sanctions on russia, it did not stop gas supplies for even an hour, demonstrating how baseless the rhetoric about energy security is. the only way forward that will benefit all parties and ensure stability on our continent is through cooperation and honest partnership between russia and the other states of europe. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i'm the editor. mr president, the political climate in cambodia is deteriorating. persecution of the opposition and of activists and media is on the agenda. we also have arbitrary sentences. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the arrest must therefore be stopped, the political system must function properly, the government must guarantee the rule of law, freedom of association and the free operation of the media. at the same time, we have to stop the land grabbing. 56% of the land is effectively confiscated, seized, and plundered. we have kidnappings in too many countries and it is unacceptable. the european union must therefore send a message to cambodia. the preferential trade agreement with cambodia cannot continue, these privileges exist and on the other hand cambodia does not respect human rights.
i'm the editor. mr president, the presidential elections held in gabon in august 2016 have complicated the situation and intensified violence in the region, rather than making things easier. at the same time, there was and still is a postponement of the parliamentary elections, which are supposed to be held at some point and are more likely to be held in april 2018. the situation is worsening, human rights are being curtailed. there are arrests of dissidents and activists. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the gabonese economy, and to provide information on the situation in the french economy. the french authorities have located and seized goods worth approximately eur 60 million. at the same time, there is an audit of a bank account of €1.3 million located in france and belonging to the bongo family. you realize that the issues are very serious. there must be european union intervention. the gabonese regime must be pressured to abide by the cotonou agreements.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, one year after the heavily contested presidential elections in gabon, the situation has reached a stalemate, with no prospect of a political solution to the country’s divisions and to the crisis. it is quite clear to us that the new restrictive and repressive measures imposed on the opposition escalate the political and social tensions. in a moment when tempers are running high, also because of the downward economic trend, this is a very dangerous path to follow. we expect all parties to refrain from any statement or action that may fuel further tension. gabonese law guarantees freedom of expression, assembly, movement and access to media for all the citizens of the country. this means that no one should be subject to arbitrary and legally unjustified arrests and restrictions. as you all know, at the beginning of the year we decided to call for an intensified political dialogue between the european union and the government of gabon, in the framework of the cotonou agreement. months after our proposal, the government has accepted and the first procedural session of the dialogue was held this summer, in july. in september and october, we will hold four specific sessions of the dialogue, including one on the electoral process. our conversation will be based on the final report of the eu’s election observation mission, and i would like here to take again the opportunity to thank all the members of this parliament, and your former colleague and my new fellow commissioner, mariya gabriel, for having led that mission in a remarkable manner. the conclusions of the electoral observation mission were very clear. we cannot simply turn the page or allow others to turn the page. so the european union’s relations with gabon have been reassessed. our aim is to prevent a lasting split in the country and to contribute to reconciliation. this requires that the government engages towards meaningful electoral and institutional reforms. we are ready to accompany the institutions in this process in any possible way. it is also essential to shed light on the serious human rights violations in the country. the preliminary examination of the international criminal court, the european union’s intervention at the human rights council in march, the resolution of the european parliament and the resolution of the african commission on human and peoples’ rights all agree on this point. truth must be established and those responsible for any violations must be brought to justice. the session of the un committee on enforced disappearances on gabon was an opportunity for the government to take more seriously the numerous and well documented allegations of human rights abuses. reconciliation will also need true dialogue between the parties. unfortunately, the national dialogue process did not succeed in bringing together the main political forces. it is essential for us to find a new framework for a truly inclusive dialogue, with the ultimate goal of agreeing on structural reforms. we stand ready, as the european union, to work with the government and the opposition, to help them find a way out of the crisis and towards transparent and credible future elections. for this aim, as i said, the remarkable work done by our electoral observation mission will be incredibly valuable, an excellent basis for our further work. i thank you for that and also for this debate that i believe will provide us with good guidance for the further work that we will carry on.
mr president, why are the three activists mentioned in the resolution being prosecuted? because they made comments online, and in fact, when they made those comments, they were in thailand and they are being persecuted today by the lao authorities. they were also arrested by the vietnamese police. so you understand the situation. the situation is unacceptable as there is systematic oppression of religious minorities in laos, especially christians who have been beaten up for participating in christmas celebrations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must intervene, particularly in connection with the eurasian summit. we cannot tolerate the curtailment of human rights, the arrests of activists, the restrictions on the media and, above all, the oppression of christians in laos.
mr president, we have discussed the issue of the rohingya minority several times here in the european parliament: in july 2016, in december 2016 and, of course, at the beginning, in march 2017. what is happening is ethnic cleansing, and it is being done purely for economic reasons, in order to take over land where rohingya communities used to live, because there is interest in mining there. interest from major multinationals. at the same time, they are taking over the exploitation of water. so religion is used as an excuse. the fact that the rohingya happen to be muslims has nothing to do with it, because behind all this is an economic process. this is what we must see and stand by condemning the violence on the part of the military and, of course, calling for immediate measures to stop the ethnic cleansing that is taking place in burma at the moment. we would expect aung san suu kyi, who has also been awarded the sakharov prize, to take a very decisive stand. we therefore expect the european union to take action, mrs mogherini.
mr president, the tuna and swordfish fisheries in the mediterranean and the atlantic are of particular importance, because they contribute to the creation of jobs in many countries of the european union. but, mr vella, the european union must respond to the unfair practices of the fishing fleets of third countries, because european fishermen are keeping to the agreements, while the fishing fleets of third countries are practicing piracy. in addition, measures must be taken to support traditional and small-scale fishing, particularly in the mediterranean and in greece, where fishermen have been literally impoverished by the troika's heavy taxation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the greek fishermen. finally, mr vella, particularly now that the saronic gulf has suffered a huge ecological disaster due to the oil pollution caused by the sinking of the tanker "holy zone iii", i would ask you to state here what measures of support you will take for the greek fishermen who have suffered enormous damage as a result of this ecological disaster. i want an answer to that, mr vella, because the greek fishermen are waiting for you to tell us how you will support them in dealing with this problem which exists today in the saronic.
madam president, it is well known that there is a particular socioeconomic framework of strong barriers that impede the economic empowerment of women. the data show that in the workplace there remains a huge gender pay gap of 16.4% at the expense of women, while the pension gap is 39%. if we take into account that women are employed in flexible forms of employment, this means that their pension rights are even more subordinated. in addition, it should be borne in mind that the total employment of women is 12% lower than that of men. according to eurostat, the current average of women on the boards of large listed companies is only 23.9%. moreover, in greece, where the memoranda have literally dismantled greek society, women are the most affected population group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the women in greece, particularly the young farmers.
madam president, the role of civil society in developing countries is particularly important because it can really support the development of democracy in those countries, it can actually support the defence of human rights, which are really being violated in those countries. we must therefore recognise the special role of civil society. this is also mentioned in the cotonou agreement. obviously, there is concern about the shrinking of civil society. the european union must take concrete measures, in particular to support the efforts of the church and the trade unions. i would like to point out, however, that there is another aspect of civil society. there are organisations involved in both development projects and projects to use european union funds in developing countries and in issues relating to refugees. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of amsterdam, and the commission's proposal is to be incorporated in the treaty of amsterdam.
madam president, the insidious and destabilising role of ngos and so-called civil society organisations is reinforced by the help of political henchmen, at national and eu level, who finance and promote them. already since the rose revolution in georgia and the orange revolution in ukraine, it has been demonstrated in practice that ngos are excellent at marketing their selective and dishonest action, promoting underhandedly supposedly progressive practices and leftist ideologies in the defence of human rights. these organizations directly challenge values and institutions, deconstruct the history of nations, moral traditions, christian faith and violently disrupt ethnically homogeneous societies by promoting illegal immigration. and those politicians who support them, capitalize on their support by granting immunity and exemption from any criminal prosecution, such as the former greek prime minister george papandreou, who illegally funded ngos of friends and relatives with huge sums, while at the same time dragging the greek people into the vortex of the memoranda.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, mr king, ladies and gentlemen, i consider it a great honour to present the report on the fight against cybercrime, because i have had the opportunity for many years as a criminal defense lawyer in my own country and as a politician to deal with this very important subject. the fight against cybercrime is not easy, because it requires high expertise, continuous training and information, legal certainty and coordination. the report includes elements that highlight the distinctive form and character of cybercrime. this is because of the ease and speed with which the crime is committed, the anonymity, the transnational nature of the crime, the difficulty of the investigation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat cybercrime, including the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, the creation of a european cybercrime centre, and the creation of a european cybercrime centre. but it is our duty to deal with this phenomenon, because these attacks are affecting the fundamental rights of european citizens, they are directly and critically affecting the rule of law and undermining the stability of democratic societies. it is worth noting that statistically there are member states where 50% of the annual crime is in the form of cybercrime and there is also evidence showing that in 2016 cybercrime attacks against the electronic systems of the european union increased by 20%. this shows us the increase and the speed at which online crime is evolving. our report includes parameters that affect the fight against cybercrime. we have identified challenges, legislative gaps, legal loopholes and new threats. we are making proposals which include the way of prevention through coordinated cooperation, through the exchange of information between member states, but also between the member states of the european union and third countries and between police and judicial authorities. we certainly propose in a specific chapter the need to protect vulnerable groups: young people, minors and children, and we emphasize the legislative initiative on the collection and use of electronic evidence and the framework for the collection of personal data always with respect for fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internet is not used for illegal purposes. we would like to think that this report also contributes to this effort to protect the safety of the internet. we stress the need to make european cybercrime services more operational, such as enisa, which is based in heraklion, crete, and is doing very important work, to provide financial support with european resources, to staff them with the appropriate human resources, because our aim is to be able to follow the trail of criminals on the internet, to be as far ahead of them as possible, given that they are always ahead of the technology, and to be close to the citizens who trust digital technologies. ladies and gentlemen, the report is a start in the fight against cybercrime, but it is first and foremost a commitment by the european union to protect the rights of citizens who trust in technologies and, above all, to protect the rights of future generations.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs voseberg-bryonides, on her report, which really touches on important issues that should concern us, because there are really many cases of cyberattacks against states, against companies and against citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are protected against the dangers of the spread of the virus. the accountability of service providers is very important, as is the strengthening of cooperation between police and judicial authorities. enisa should be strengthened. it must remain in heraklion and this mockery must stop, that is to say, there must be other services in heraklion in crete and others in athens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected.
madam president, it is practically impossible to fully protect cyberspace against weathermen, criminal networks and terrorists, who can inflict disproportionate damage with relatively limited means. on the other hand, european decisions make the work of surveillance, arrest and prosecution authorities more difficult by imposing limits on police and judicial access, on suspect data and on data retention in the light of the principles of necessity and proportionality. enisa, europol and eurojust can contribute to the authorities for the recognition and handling of digital evidence in terms of how to use social media, how best to report cyber-attacks and understanding practical legal aspects on communications privacy. the required innovative and flexible responses should not further reduce the member states' procedure. the commission should, in the alternative, confine itself to enforcing mandatory and reciprocal response to law enforcement requests and to cooperation and accountability of service providers.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs voseberg-bryonides, on her comprehensive report on the very sensitive and serious subject of cybercrime. as we know, cyberattacks are one of the most powerful weapons in hybrid warfare, because among other things, cybercrime is on the rise, which is expanding into activities beyond traditional crime, such as sexual exploitation, child pornography and the difficulty of operating international digital commerce. if terrorist organizations gain access to cyberspace, the threats that will be posed are very significant. in order to deal with this whole situation, we need all the states to work together, we need to enforce cyber justice, we need the judicial and police authorities to work together and identify the vulnerability of all these points that we need to look out for. finally, i would also stress the need for enisa to function in an integrated manner and we must, in any case, be careful not to violate human rights when implementing these measures.
the european union's relations with asean are indeed of great importance. they cover a wide range of areas: trade, investment, development, economics and political affairs. asean is the third largest trading partner of the european union, the european union is asean's second largest trading partner, annual bilateral trade exceeds eur 200 billion, and the european union is the leading force in foreign direct investment in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. i think that is mentioned in paragraph 14 of the report. the european union must not, in the name of so-called development, neglect the protection of labour and human rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, i welcome this report on behalf of the commission and high representative/vice—president mogherini. it speaks to the importance the eu attributes to relations with the association of southeast asian nations (asean), notwithstanding the last comment. it is also an appropriate way to celebrate this 40th anniversary. europe and the asean region may be separated geographically, but we remain closely linked. what happens in southeast asia matters to us, and – i think we all agree – the same is true for our asean friends. today’s challenges and crises very often have a global dimension, a global impact. the situation in the south china sea and in the korean peninsula, the fight against terrorism, radicalisation to mention just a few examples are asean interests, but they are our interests too. the eu wants to contribute to the security of the asean region. the eu has become one of the main contributors to the security-related activities of the asean regional forum. in 2017, we have sponsored initiatives on counter-radicalisation, people trafficking, preventive diplomacy and mediation. for the third year in a row, we have invited asean partners to be acquainted with the eu’s capabilities in common defence and security policies. a seminar in rome allowed for a visit to the headquarters of operation sophia. shortly, the eu will co-sponsor the fourth edition of the eu-asean high-level dialogue on maritime security this year with the philippines. we see the recent invitation to attend the november east asia summit as an acknowledgment of these efforts. we want to thank all asean members, and in particular the philippines, for inviting us. we look forward to contributing to the summit’s work as a partner and a friend. the same goes for other security and defence forums in southeast asia, notably the asean defence ministers’ meeting plus. there is much we can do together in terms of trade, connectivity, making the most out of globalisation, as well as addressing together the imbalances it can give rise to. both the eu and asean want to continue fighting climate change and to preserve the paris agreement. i am glad that we adopted, in august, a joint statement to reaffirm that we stand by paris, and we will push forward implementation. we should not underestimate the joint potential of cooperation between eu and asean in a range of sectors. after all, as has been noted, together we represent over one billion people, and we are among the largest world economies. the european union is the first foreign investor in asean and the second trading partner. the impact of bilateral free trade agreements between the european union and singapore, vietnam, indonesia, the philippines and thailand would be huge, with great benefits for our companies and citizens. these agreements could be the stepping stones towards a future region-to-region agreement. the comprehensive air transport agreement we are negotiating would be the first of its kind. once finalised, thousands of new jobs will be created, and one billion people will be able to fly directly for lower prices and with the highest standards of security. the potential for greater engagement is huge. to turn this potential into reality, in manila in august the eu and asean adopted a comprehensive plan of action to guide cooperation from 2018 to 2022. all the key areas of common interest are covered, including human rights, good governance, women’s rights and the rule of law. forty years ago, we took the first steps to build cooperation between the european union and asean. we have come a long way since. today, every day, we see that many of our interests coincide, as do many of the challenges we face. the eu remains committed to comprehensively upgrading the eu-asean relationship. we can be proud of what we have achieved over the last 40 years. we should be ambitious about what we can do together in the years ahead. madam president, honourable members, thank you for your engagement on this report and the debate this evening.
madam president, on sunday 10 september a relatively small tanker sank in the saronic gulf of greece. according to experts, the oil spill was not initially significant and could have been contained before it spread. however, as everyone could see from the pictures, enormous environmental damage was caused and the professional fishermen were driven to desperation. the reaction and the oligarchy of the state apparatus have already been strongly criticized. in any case, we can now ask some important questions: do the national authorities who assess the seaworthiness of such vessels have the technical training and independence of a recognised expert? secondly, should this ship, which was 45 years old, please, be sailing in european waters? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the maritime sector in the community, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the maritime sector. i hope that with the help of the european union we will make the protection of the sea our main objective.
madam president, the problem of bad loans is intensifying in greece as the syriza-anel government launches electronic auctions. the greek people, despite having paid dearly for the successive recapitalisations of the greek banks in three memoranda, are now being attacked by banks which have been completely dehellenized and which are literally preparing to sell out the 'red' loans to the funds, i.e. to the 'cowards' instead of the front desk. but the greek people are not going to allow the troika and the "crows" to take their homes. our party, greece - the other way, demands the establishment of a public fund for red loans, a borrowers' rescue fund, so that they can save their homes. the fund could be financed with eur 4.5 billion of the eur 25 billion left over from the third loan package. in addition, we demand that the cyprus model be introduced in greece, so that the borrower has a right to buy his loan at the price of the first offer made by the 'ravens'.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to develop initiatives to make the european union stronger and more attractive after brexit. we need a serious debate on increasing the european union's own resources and on financing new policies. and do not tell me that the taxpayers of your countries do not want to finance european policies, because i will tell you that david cameron said the same thing and you saw what happened to him! there is no doubt that the city of london will remain a strong financial and shipping centre after brexit. but we have an obligation to strengthen our comparative position in frankfurt, dublin, paris and piraeus, especially in the commercial shipping sector. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, mr barnier, six months after the triggering of article 50 of the treaty on european union, progress is weak, but the confusion surrounding the course of brexit is great. the lack of clarity in the eu-uk relationship undermines its prospects and, above all, does not protect the interests of european citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. it is our duty to provide them with immediate security, incorporating all the rights they enjoy, without any substantial change in their position for them and their children. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are countries like my country, greece, which depend to a large extent on financing from the community budget for their economic development. commitments entered into by 28 member states cannot be met by the 27 and the united kingdom must honour in full the budgetary commitments it has made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. finally, in view of the council decision of november 2017 to determine the seats of european agencies based in the united kingdom, i would like to reiterate here before the plenary of the european parliament, before the representatives of all member states, greece's request to host the seat of the european medicines agency in athens. we have the infrastructure, we can provide the families of the 900 workers with access to multilingual education, we can contribute to know-how. i urge you to give this opportunity to greece, sending a strong message of equal opportunity to europe after brexit.
mr president, the process of the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union must be carried out in a civilised manner, commensurate with the prestige of both parties. the european union, for its part, must not show any vengeance because the people of great britain have decided to leave the european union. but the uk government must not hold hostage the citizens of the other european union countries who live and work there, threatening to destroy their lives and the lives of their families. i would agree with mr verhofstadt that the fences separating certain districts of belfast should be torn down. this must be done, because this situation is unacceptable. but it is equally unacceptable that the green line should be maintained in nicosia, the capital of cyprus, part of which is illegally occupied by turkey. the european union, which is also responsible for this unacceptable situation, must take steps to put pressure on turkey and put an end to this unacceptable situation which is diminishing the prestige of the civilized european union.
the debate on brexit, mr president, is highlighting the fundamental elements of the functioning of the european union. the right of a member state to withdraw from the union is non-negotiable. it is a sovereign right of a member state to leave. the aim of the biennial negotiations is to facilitate the exercise of this right and not to impede the right of withdrawal. the european union is trying to hold hostage a member state which wants to leave. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the court of justice of the european union is also empowered to rule on the united kingdom after its withdrawal. i think the european union should focus on safeguarding the rights of union citizens in the united kingdom, including over 63,000 of our fellow greeks.
madam president, brexit is a prime example of where nationalist populists can lead a country, however powerful it may be. great britain is now moving into uncharted waters. unfortunately, six months after the start of the negotiations, there has been insufficient progress. this is the position taken by both the european parliament and the commission. the united kingdom has not accepted the maintenance of the rights of european citizens living there. over three million europeans, including many thousands of greeks, live, study and work in the united kingdom. they can't afford to pay for mr. cameron's tactics. many of them have settled there, have families, it's their home now. we can't change their lives. the british government cannot use them as leverage in the negotiations. he can't intimidate them by accidentally sending them deportation papers. european citizens living in england should continue to enjoy the same rights as they do under european law today. the european parliament cannot accept anything less.
the european union has been unable to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement, and the council has not been able to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement. although the european union has provided huge amounts of money to moldova since 2005, this money has not been used to develop sectors that would also provide jobs, such as industry and agriculture, but to open up some markets of interest to the european union. this has resulted in the internal establishment and corruption forces in the country being able to exploit this money, misuse it, create a financial vacuum of the order of one billion dollars in three banks in the country and generally collapse the country's economy. the destruction of the country was a lucky break for the european union countries in their measures against russia, which is the main supplier of gas to moldova and the largest importer of goods from the country. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the united states is not a member of the european union.
mr president, three years ago the union and moldova signed an association agreement, including a free trade agreement, and moldova became the first partner country to benefit from visa-free travel. the aim was to support the country in political, social and economic reform in order to enhance democratisation and good governance, energy security and economic and social development. instead, a billion dollars disappeared from the three largest banking institutions in two days. the country's population has declined by 10% in a country with 2.9 million remaining citizens, with 600,000 permanently living abroad and 350,000 commuting to neighboring countries to survive. the country has been driven into an energy and agricultural crisis as a result of the union's sanctions against russia. it is therefore logical that moldovan citizens are turning to russia. the union should have realised that money cannot buy national spirit. such policies are doomed to fail.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we are witnessing a modern-day slave market. but the victims don't wear torn and dirty clothes, they wear wedding dresses and suits. what does the study tell us? if current trends continue, it is estimated that by 2030, 150 million child brides will have been married before the age of 18. we therefore call for the immediate implementation of the istanbul convention, which condemns forced marriages. and i call on the commission, firstly, to regulate at european level the criminalisation of the forcing of children into marriage and the deliberate transfer of children to another country for that purpose. secondly, to ensure that every unaccompanied refugee child has a legal representative who will guarantee respect for his or her rights.
mr president, there is no doubt that the marriage of minors, especially of children in their pre-adolescence or early adolescence, is, in the eyes of western civilization, reprehensible and condemnable. and forced marriage is abhorrent at any age, let alone when it involves minors. fortunately, as far as i know, the legal framework in all the countries of the union is largely adequate, and our societies, with a few exceptions for certain social groups, do not accept such practices. unfortunately, however, with the dramatic increase in illegal immigration and the influx into europe of populations from countries with a completely different culture and mores, this phenomenon is tending to take on alarming dimensions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this practice. the legal framework should be completed where there are gaps and penalties should be made more stringent for offenders. but a real solution will only be found if we make it clear to those who come legally to europe with the aim of settling in any country that wishes to accept them that, whatever traditions and customs they may have in their countries of origin, they must conform to the values and principles of european civilization, otherwise they cannot remain on our continent.
mr president, the european union's partnership with egypt is based on the revised european neighbourhood policy and is summed up in addressing common challenges, promoting common interests and ensuring long-term stability in both mediterranean regions. the european union is a strategic partner of egypt and therefore cooperates with it on other important issues, such as ensuring stability in the eastern mediterranean region, promoting issues of common interest, combating terrorism, tackling migration and promoting democracy. egypt is committed to constitutionally guaranteeing the fundamental freedoms and human rights of its citizens and protecting the rights of migrants and marginalized people. it also cooperates on energy issues. the discovery of the zor supergiant in the egyptian eez will help to promote cooperation between the two parties. finally, i would point out that egypt's trilateral cooperation with greece and cyprus will contribute to stability in the region and to the promotion of common foreign policy objectives.
mr president, efforts to combat global warming and the human interventions that cause it are not producing the desired results. many countries have remained in mere commitments, not accompanied by practical implementation, while some others do not participate in the paris agreement because of economic and political interests. but the effects of global warming on climate, oceans, health and agriculture are undeniable and are likely to become irreversible. whether we're talking about global warming or global cooling, the fact is that the earth has reached a limiting level of absorption of dangerous pollutants, gases, liquids and solids. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his report, which is a very good one.
mr president, in a few days we will be one year into the implementation of the paris agreement. unfortunately, within that year, the united states of america, the second largest polluter in the world, decided to withdraw from the agreement. fortunately, the initial reactions isolated mr. trump and prevented a domino effect. the danger, however, remains. the european union must live up to expectations at the forthcoming cop23, which, although it will be held in bonn, is being hosted by fiji, a country threatened with extinction by climate change. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the peoples of the world are respected and that the rights of the peoples of the world are protected. to remain at the forefront of the fight against climate change, even as america shifts strategy and backs down from the commitments made by president obama. we must ensure that what we decided in paris is implemented. the prosperity, the democracy, the stability, all depend directly on the living conditions of people in all parts of the world.
mr president, commissioner cañete, in bonn one of the main topics of discussion will be the scale-up of funding to combat climate change and its consequences. it is true that the joint target of mobilising 100 billion dollars a year for the environment is ambitious and may not be enough, although here in the european union we have already committed to spending 20% of our budget on environment-related objectives. however, it is very crucial to see how this commitment is being implemented, especially in the member states. the anxiety about the loss of jobs from carbon-dioxide-emission sectors must be replaced by the response we give by creating sustainable jobs in new technologies. it is necessary to create a policy that will strengthen projects and infrastructure to tackle climate change. a targeted policy that will create viable markets and thus be attractive to private sector resources. examples are many: decarbonisation, encouraging the use of alternative energy sources in transport, further promoting energy efficiency in buildings and renewable energy sources. we here in the european union can, with or without the united states, continue to play a leading role in achieving the paris objectives. we owe it to our kids.
mr president, global warming is indeed having enormous consequences for the development of the world as a whole, but also for our future. on the other hand, we have to consider the situation we are in, because the second largest polluter in the world, the united states, has withdrawn from the agreement. in addition, china is, i would say, throwing the ball into the ring, because it has not made any commitments until 2030. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. at the same time, our policies are dismantling traditional industries. it must therefore be taken seriously that the main pollutants are not bound at all.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 4 october. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu.
mr president, it is unacceptable and painful that ryanair has abandoned 400 000 passengers to their fate and has cancelled flights and, as it says, will cancel more until the beginning of spring. ryanair is the biggest company, it operates in 84 airports and of course it has a monopoly. that's the situation. it is exploiting this monopoly position to make a profit. it's all because there's a serious dysrhythmia in her relationship with the pilots. it doesn't guarantee their rights and of course the pilots aren't available to work overtime. the same goes for cabin crew. the main point is that it is not enough to hear the commission's wishes. what action will be taken against ryanair which is actually acting illegally? how will passenger protection be provided? how will consumer protection be achieved? how will they get their compensation? these are the questions we must answer if we are to stop ryanair abusing the dominant position it currently has in the market. everything that was done was done because the goal was to make a profit and of course the company didn't give its own employees a dime. this is the reality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly, the cancellation of tens of thousands of flights shows a lack of respect for passengers. disrespect expressed in other ways: we have a ryanair official saying that they're considering standing passengers on special planes. secondly, in all the countries of the european union where ryanair operates, labour laws must be respected and workers' rights respected. thirdly, the lack of respect for passengers, the treatment of them as animals travelling upright, and also the absence of labour regulations affect the safety of flights. airplanes fly, they're machines, but planes are operated by people. staff who are rested and content are staff who are safe. if that is not there, we risk having other very unpleasant events and we will all be responsible. you can see the atmosphere here, commissioner. it's time to take action.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the debate on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure on the draft commission regulation amending annex ii to regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 to establish scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties (2017/2872 ((rsp))
mr. president, endocrine disruptors are dangerous chemicals found in materials, in toys, in food. it is clear that measures must be taken against the use of all these chemicals which have harmful effects on public health and the environment. it follows that the criteria for the identification and detection of endocrine disruptors should be established on the basis of scientific and technical specifications. it cannot be the result of a political compromise between member states. but what we are seeing is that there is a political compromise that has nothing to do with scientific criteria. nor, of course, should we accept the inversion of the burden of proof. in our view, the commission has exceeded the powers it has acquired in this particular area. we therefore consider that this is a unilateral override of powers and that the european parliament, in cooperation with the council, is naturally responsible for taking decisions. we therefore repeat that this is a flagrant abuse of power on the part of the european commission.
mr president, the changes proposed, like the existing directives, are designed to increase the profitability of shipping capital. the european union and its governments, such as that of syriza-anel, continue to entrust the safety inspections of passenger and commercial ships to private companies-experts, linked to shipowners and other sectors of the capital. they sell puncture marks for airworthiness certificates in the shallow and under-maintained "walls" of the shipping fleet, with reduced organic composition, exhausting working conditions for the seafarers. in this way the european union and governments are covering up shipping crimes which cost lives and cause environmental disasters, such as the recent sinking of a tanker full of fuel oil in greece in the saronic sea. we demand immediate compensation for all those affected. the people can draw the following conclusions: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the member states, and has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the member states.
mr president, shipping is of particular importance in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the railways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of the single market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passenger ships is not compromised. that means we have to stick to the safety issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the aircraft is not compromised by any simplification of procedures, and the process of issuing strange certificates of airworthiness to 'saucers' in certain countries, including greece, must be stopped. we have had the sinking of the holy zone ii which literally contaminated the saronic and it is clear that stricter standards are needed, because the main thing is the protection of passengers and not of course the profitability of businesses and shipowners. this is very important. finally, passenger data must be recorded, but in a way that protects personal data. this is also a very important issue.
mr president, under the pretext of the safety of passengers travelling by passenger ship to and from ports in the european union, the council and parliament have proposed to amend the existing directive. the proposal is to record passenger data electronically, i.e. digitally. the fact is that safety is a very important issue and we must approach it with care and responsibility. but safety is not guaranteed by recording passenger data; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. on the contrary, the digital recording of passengers' personal data poses the risk that it may be intercepted, processed by incompetent persons or criminals and used for illegal activities. for this very reason, i believe that the digital recording of passenger data is only for procedural purposes and is not of particular importance to be sought and accepted.
mr president, the competition and compromise of states and monopolies, the escalation of the anti-people offensive and the interventions of the european union, with victims and refugees everywhere for their own profit, mark every summit. popular discontent is growing in the greece of the memoranda; but also in the france of the "reformer" macron, reminding that the european union is changing, but only for the worse; in the elections of rich germany, where the kke is confirmed: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. the european union's concern for the cohesion of the states is à la carte. it is itself challenging it elsewhere by instigating dangerous border changes (see balkans, middle east). but popular discontent, whether expressed in nationalistic or far-right forms such as the afd in germany, is captured by the interests of other sections of capital that are equally unpopular. to be effective, it must aim at the heart of the beast: the power of capital and its overthrow.
mr president, the issues on the agenda for the next european council are particularly serious, although i believe the same disastrous policies will be pursued on immigration, defence and foreign policy. on sunday, turkish president erdoğan, speaking in his country's parliament, said that turkey no longer needed its membership of the union. in addition, the european commissioner responsible for enlargement, johannes hahn, said that turkey under the erdoğan presidency has turned its back on its membership of the european union. after years of failed accession negotiations with turkey, european citizens realize that the process is dead, knowing erdoğan's persecution of his critics, statements about nazi governments in europe and the referendum that gave him superpowers. but now is a golden opportunity for the leaders of the member states to rid europe of erdoğan and to break off all cooperation and dialogue with turkey.
madam president, the current proposal for a definition of endocrine disruptors, which we must remember are responsible for many cancers, for an increase in infertility in men and women, for a general decline in the intellectual quotient, or for behavioural disorders in children, is in no way up to the firmness and courage that must be shown on this subject. with a health cost of €100 billion per year for europe, endocrine disruptors are a real scourge. today the commission is making a mockery of the world by having a derogation for molecules specially designed to disrupt the functioning of the endocrine system. it is not the role of the european parliament to encourage the manufacture of pesticides with endocrine disrupting mode of action. that is why, together with my colleagues in the europe of nations and freedoms group, i supported this objection which opposes the definition of endocrine disruptors proposed by the commission.
madam president, i voted in favour of the objection and i welcome the veto, which was adopted by the european parliament by 389 votes. it is an important message to the commission that the european parliament does not tolerate the abuse of power, as was done in this case with the draft commission regulation on the establishment of scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting properties. the debate showed that the criteria used by the commission were in fact the result of a political compromise and not criteria relating to scientific and technical standards. it is well known that endocrine disruptors are chemicals that are dangerous to public health and the environment and i welcome once again the european parliament's determination to send a message that lobbying is not going to go away.
madam president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the abolition of child marriages because child marriages, early marriages, forced marriages are a violation and a denial of the fundamental rights of children. according to the data, in developing countries one third of girls who marry are under 18, one in nine are under 15. it turns out that these children are in fact deprived of education, besides being led into premature pregnancies as a supposed proof of fertility. in my view, the istanbul convention should be promoted, as it prohibits forced marriage. the role of civil society is important, but it should be noted that early marriages are mainly linked to islamic traditions, which are now also being adopted in europe, as the number of migrants has increased. and that has to stop.
madam president, climate change is a major challenge for humanity and of course we are all fighting against global warming. we must of course take seriously what is happening. because the second largest polluter in the world, the united states, has now withdrawn from the paris agreement and is not committed. the question is: how will the united states be forced to come back and commit? second, china is essentially committing to post-2030 rules. so by then, china will be polluting the planet, too. the same applies to india. so what are the limits of the european union's intervention? what can the european union do on its own with the measures it is taking? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
mr president, the budgetary pact is a system of imposing a permanent 'merkel' austerity on all the peoples of europe. it even requires that it be incorporated into the constitutions of the member states. it also imposes on the member states the famous merkel golden rule, namely balanced or surplus state budgets. otherwise, corrective mechanisms - the so-called "cutter" - are automatically triggered, with cuts in wages, pensions, social benefits and measures of forced fiscal adjustment. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is a fiscal 'jacket' that imposes fines and sanctions, limits national sovereignty, increases unemployment and social inequalities. the troika and the eurogroup are implementing this policy in greece, which has become a test subject for the budgetary pact with millions of poor and unemployed soldiers, with the selling off of public assets and the increase in the terrible debt. but, mr dombrovskis, the greek people cannot tolerate memoranda and the troika and will soon send you the message.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary pact is the denial of democracy in the european union. the member states which have signed it transfer powers over their economic policies to the emu institutions. all countries are obliged to adopt, even in their constitutions, rules of balanced budgets and mechanisms of automatic spending cuts. the result is that a single policy is being pursued, the neo-liberal policy of balanced budgets, low social spending, reduced incomes, market liberalisation and privatisation, reduction of workers' rights and bargaining power. the results and consequences of such a neoliberal policy have been dramatically felt by the greek people over the last seven years. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund, which is a very important one. if they want to restore democracy, they must go beyond the limits set by the european union, the stability pact and the financial pact.
in writing. the eu's 'fiscal compact' is a step towards further eu integration. the single eu budget, the european finance minister, the european monetary fund, in competition with, but with the same role as, the imf, are the endless shield of governments' anti-working class policies, under the constant supervision of the eu. the obligation to balance budgets - within the framework of the "stability pact" - in case of overrun, obliges the states to take immediate anti-working-class measures, with "automatic budget cuts", further cuts in wages, pensions, social spending. in conjunction with the emsa and the euro pact, a duration memorandum is promised for the eu's stranglehold on the public debt until it is repaid. the demands of various governments, such as the syriza-anel government, a champion in the implementation of the memoranda, for an exemption from the stability pact for 'development' investment spending are in no way about relaxing anti-people policy, but about subsidies in free money and tax breaks for capital which will be paid again by the people with successive storms of measures and taxes. the experience of the peoples can be the criterion and the basis for the workers' and people's movement to counterattack. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the eu's 'fiscal compact' is a step towards further eu integration. the single eu budget, the european finance minister, the european monetary fund, in competition with, but with the same role as, the imf, are the endless shield of governments' anti-working class policies, under the constant supervision of the eu. the obligation to balance budgets - within the framework of the "stability pact" - in case of overrun, obliges the states to take immediate anti-working-class measures, with "automatic budget cuts", further cuts in wages, pensions, social spending. in conjunction with the emsa and the euro pact, a duration memorandum is promised for the eu's stranglehold on the public debt until it is repaid. the demands of various governments, such as the syriza-anel government, a champion in the implementation of the memoranda, for an exemption from the stability pact for 'development' investment spending are in no way about relaxing anti-people policy, but about subsidies in free money and tax breaks for capital which will be paid again by the people with successive storms of measures and taxes. the experience of the peoples can be the criterion and the basis for the workers' and people's movement to counterattack. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the control of the use of the financial system by the member states is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but that confidence is being shaken in greece, mr oettinger, mr lehne, because citizens are watching esdp projects, which have been funded, go into privatisation. in particular, fraport, in the context of the privatisation, has taken over thessaloniki airport, where eur 400 million of esif projects were carried out, chania airport, where eur 100 million of esif projects are still being carried out, and eur 30 million of esif projects in skopje. is that possible? we believe that the privatisation of esdp projects is not acceptable. it hasn't even been five years. i want you to look at these matters because they are serious, because the greek people think that this is a sale of regional airports to fraport.
madam president, the european public prosecutor's office is another repressive tool added to the already existing and dangerous network of repression in the european union and its member states. with a european ombudsman and european lawyers in each member state, they will have at their disposal europol and eurojust, national police and judicial authorities, databases and 'files', european warrants and more. the euro-advertising agency is thus intended to play the role of coordinator of the repressive mechanisms, both eu and national. the fight against fraud is a pretext and a precursor to its extension to other areas of prosecution and repression, such as the so-called 'fight against terrorism'. the regulation is adopted with deliberate vagueness, already widening the scope of action. but the real aim of all these mechanisms is the popular labour movement, the suppression of popular freedoms. the fight against repression of popular freedoms and rights must therefore be directed against the real enemy and opponent: the power of the monopolies, whose shielding their associations and mechanisms serve.
the protection of the european union's financial interests is currently being done in the member states. there are national prosecutors, there are prosecuting authorities and we know very well that as soon as complaints or charges are made, criminal prosecution is carried out and there is criminal punishment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the prosecution, as you know, exercises sovereign rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is actually happening is that the european union itself is creating repressive mechanisms 'out of the window', which is not satisfied with or perhaps does not trust the repressive mechanisms of the member states. we have eurojust, we have olaf, we have europol, now we will have the european public prosecutor. i think this model doesn't make any sense.
the role of interpol is indeed important, madam president, both in the fight against international crime and in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there must be control. it must respect fundamental freedoms and personal data in its activities. the council of europe resolution, as has been said, clearly states that the issue of red flags is being abused, because a number of countries issue red flags for political reasons and, subsequently, many people who are activists are imprisoned and may remain in prison for a long time or are released. it is therefore necessary to examine the conditions under which the person concerned may intervene and appeal against the red flag. finally, i would like interpol to work much more closely with the european authorities in dealing with the jihadists who are a danger to our society.
mr president, behind the problem of lorry drivers there is a bigger problem: the problem of immigration, the problem of closed borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they talk about attacks, but they're alluding to desperate migrants trapped at borders and ports. i wonder how many migrants have died from suffocation in hidden trucks. of course, lorry drivers have our support, not only because of the inhuman working hours, the stress of being on time, the poor road networks, the attacks, but also because they are exempt from the directive on the posting of workers. but just as drivers need safe roads, so refugees need legal and safe passageways, and there is no rivalry between them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road safety of the community is not compromised by the fact that the road safety directive is not yet in force. at the same time, however, the safety of the drivers of lorries and their goods must be protected. i would like to ask you, however, mrs jourová, about a serious issue in greece: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is a serious matter. i bring you the cry of agony of the owners and drivers of greek lorries who can no longer stand this unfair competition from lorries with bulgarian plates which are literally pirating.
mr president, the situation in detention centres in some member states is truly tragic: overcrowding, shortages of staff, outdated facilities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions for the release of prisoners are met. but the report deals only with the living conditions of prisoners. he's only focused on how to get their sentences reduced, not caring about their victims. he doesn't care about the prison staff whose lives and health are in danger every day. the european union imposed cost cuts on greece, which resulted in a shortage of staff and the inability to build new facilities or modernise existing ones. with the infamous "friday's child" law, law no. 4322/15 on the decongestion of prisons, more than 2,000 prisoners in greece were released. no one can dispute that the legislation paid off financially, but after the releases we had dozens of cases of convicts who ended up committing, again, criminal acts. i therefore urge you to reverse your approach, to support the allocation of new funds and to focus on a policy that defends victims, society and those who serve it, not those who undermine it.
mr. president, prisoners are recently being upgraded to institutional interlocutors on the basis of a prototype of a fundamental right. the needs and proposals of prison officials are being dismissed as biased and the process of member states on their prison system is being eroded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is humiliating to open educational facilities in prisons when schools are closed in strategically important areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. epic and unimaginable ridicule the interfaith dialogue within prisons as a means of countering radicalization. finally, i would point out the need to separate extremists and illegal immigrants from the general prison population, to separate prisoners such as minors from adults, to have access to necessary medical care on a par with other citizens, and to complete the entire sentence after a fair and impartial trial. prisons, of course, are not luxury hotels.
mr president, i support the resolution, which i have also co-signed. people with albinism suffer real persecution. it's at least 20,000 of our fellow humans. murder, kidnapping, mutilation, humiliating behavior is what happens not only in malawi but in several african countries. women who give birth to children with albinism abandon them. all of this happens because there is superstition, there is magic, and it is believed that parts of the members of the bodies of the alphas can be used to make medicine. there are hunters of people with albinism. so you realize that this situation must stop. the trafficking of human organs must be criminalised and the action taken in tanzania, mozambique, nigeria and kenya must be encouraged and countries must take steps to protect people with albinism.
mr president, i asked for a catch-the-eye statement because all my political life i have been concerned with the death penalty in the world and have seen the recent increase in the abuse or use of this instrument, which we europeans absolutely reject. the death penalty is the most serious form of repression in criminal justice, it is irreversible and it is very sad that the maldives is another of the countries in the world that does not want to respect the moratorium on this inhuman punishment and that wants to restore the death penalty. that is why i support this resolution. it is true what other colleagues have said in terms of the breakdown of democracy and the rule of law in the maldives, but i am particularly interested in the death penalty. i would also like to mention that the maldives are prepared to execute juveniles, which is a particularly inhumane form and abuse of this punishment, and we must protest against this and therefore support this resolution.
mr president, the maldives has the worst record in the world in protecting human rights. there is no freedom of expression, there is no democratic pluralism, the right to assemble is denied, dissidents, journalists, bloggers are persecuted. fifty-six lawyers have had their licenses revoked. the militia is going unpunished in the dispersal of the demonstrations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, even young people under 18 are sentenced to death. the maldives government must therefore be dealt with very specifically. the european union has also been a major player in the fight against terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to enjoy the benefits of the single market. a travel directive should be issued prohibiting any movement. only then will the maldivian government be forced to put its house in order.
mr president, fertilisers are products for which strict rules are required to protect the quality of food, the environment and the health of consumers. and i think that support for the european fertiliser industry should not be at the expense of the health of consumers, so there must certainly be a reduction in the cadmium content. i would also like to point out to you, mr avramopoulos, that it is necessary to finance a programme to dehumanize greek and other european farmland. this is something that the greek farmers are waiting for. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, it should be noted that while the importation of cheap bulgarian fertilizers which do not meet the specifications is prohibited in greece, the importation of products from bulgaria which have been grown with the prohibited fertilizers is allowed.
mr president, it is a fact that drugs are a scourge of modern society, which is why all the states, both nationally and internationally, are trying to define drugs, to identify them, to restrict their circulation, to limit the addiction of young people to them and to impose penalties on traffickers and dealers. unfortunately, all these measures only deal with the consequences of drug trafficking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. this will help to ensure that children are brought up properly, in a healthy environment, do not have psychological problems and do not feel the need to resort to artificial drug havens. schools must educate young people about the destructive effects of drug use. the state must also ensure that youth unemployment is eliminated, so that young people are not forced into drug addiction and become victims of traffickers and dealers. finally, the states and the european union, as an international organization, must protect the lives of their citizens and confront the interests of international drug cartels, however powerful they may be, and impose draconian penalties on traffickers and dealers.
mr president, the anti-piracy policy has failed, if only because in the netherlands and the czech republic the use of cannabis by schoolchildren, even at the age of 13, exceeds 50%, while in greece it is only 9%, according to the european monitoring centre. the lobbying of the drug cartels to promote the anti-drug campaign is evidence of the desire to convince the public that drugs are not only harmless but also have therapeutic properties. in fact, without any formal studies on utility and side effects. the syriza-anel government, with so-called 'medical cannabis' as its trojan horse, is aiming at the legalization and liberalization of drugs in greece. the european union is now proposing a new 'delete' from the lists of illegal substances, which hides a bargain of major interests. the measures to coordinate repression are the other side of the eu's policy of governmental impasse. drugs are not a free choice. it is a compulsion of class, exploitative society that must be overthrown. not all drugs. a lifetime, not in installments.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the stated aim is a drug-free society, not a relaxed passive approach with theoretical measures to reduce the harmful consequences of use. the slowness of response, the replacement of controlled substances by legal, uncontrolled alternatives and the de facto repressive objectives of a comprehensive drug policy require a uniform, general and flexible extension of definitions. preventive, timely information to citizens, supportive treatment of users as patients and strict application of penalties at all stages up to disposal are required. in addition, the absolute restriction of any substance in terms of production, any trafficking and possession with the intention of disposal should be adopted, so that it can be consumed for its psychotropic properties with a few appropriate exceptions on the basis of already implemented programmes.
mr president, at a time when europe really has millions of unemployed, millions of poor people and at the same time a huge public debt, it is certain that tax evasion, tax avoidance and, of course, corruption must be tackled with determination. and in this fight, in this struggle, a very important role is played by whistleblowers, who are either working in the public or private sector, and actually revealing the scandals that are going on. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but if they know they're gonna be punished, obviously it's gonna be very hard to get the whistleblowers. it is important that we had the falciani list, what in greece is called the lagarde list, which revealed a huge tax evasion, which has also happened in greece. the protection of whistleblowers in the public interest is therefore a matter for the public, and we must therefore adopt a broad definition of the concept of whistleblower, taking account in particular of the type of information and, of course, their protection, even financial support, if we really want whistleblowers to come forward and disclose what is happening to the detriment of the public interest.
mr president, both in the public sector and in large companies, there are certain individuals who take advantage of their position and engage in illegal activities such as fraud, tax evasion, illegal enrichment and other irregularities, thus creating and maintaining the more general form of corruption. in response to this unacceptable situation, some honest citizens are reporting any illegal activities that come to their attention. unfortunately, these people often fall victim to their integrity and courage, because they are persecuted for their jobs, their lives are threatened, the lives of their family members are threatened, they often lose their lives and generally suffer. because these people are helping the state to function through these activities, the state must protect them and devise and institute procedures that will help strengthen their willingness to report these illegal acts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want informers, we want people who will report illegal activities, so that the state functions properly with the principles of good administration and the rule of law.
mr president, austerity, forced budgetary adjustment have really driven huge sections of the population throughout the european union into poverty and unemployment. we have over 119 million people at risk of poverty in the european union, that is about 25% of the total population. unemployment is mainly affecting young people and this is the case throughout the european south, with greece emerging as the leader in youth unemployment. 40% of the greek population lives below the poverty line because of the memoranda imposed by the troika which continues its tax-avoiding policy and at the same time drives greek citizens away from their homes, as the red loans now result in the troika imposing electronic auctions and the crows grabbing the homes of the greeks. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a minimum income system, a european minimum wage, the possibility of financing from the european social fund and a directive to make the minimum income system compulsory.
mr president, the wrong economic policy pursued by the european union over the last decade has caused millions of europeans, especially in the southern countries, to live at the moment either on the edge of poverty or in poverty and unemployment, especially among young people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the minimum income is not exceeded, and that the minimum income is not exceeded. in this context, the european union must abandon the ill-advised and unreasonable policy of implementing the memoranda in greece, which has led to the impoverishment of the majority of the country's population. it is completely hypocritical to discuss here the introduction of a guaranteed minimum income for the european citizen and, on the other hand, the european union helping germany to exploit the country's land, sea and underwater wealth. it is an unacceptable situation which must be brought to an end.
mr president, the minimum income guarantee, the pride of the european union and all the parties - liberal, social democratic, far-right and fascist - of the opportunists who support it, is the ultimate example of hypocrisy for so-called social sensitivity. the people's income, poured out by layoffs, wage cuts, pensions, benefits, a savage tax raid, funds this supposed safety net for charity in the most extreme cases of impoverishment and preventing their explosion. it is a system of distribution of poverty between the poor and the poorer, with the profits of the monopolies intact. this so-called security is also marketed to workers to tolerate further wage cuts, abolition of collective agreements ― the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary reforms. the workers reject this trojan horse for their last rights. to deny the lesser evil that always proves greater. by organizing and fighting, demand increased unemployment benefits for all unemployed, throughout the period of unemployment, signing of collective agreements with compensation for losses and wages that cover the needs of workers.
mr president, youth unemployment is huge in europe, but particularly in the european south. the first is greece, with 45%, and this is mainly due to the memorandum policies that have been imposed. of course there is also the immigration of young people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clear that the 'youth guarantee' programme as well as the 'youth employment initiative' need to be supported. the youth guarantee requires €50 billion. but what is the amount available, mr. avramopoulos? a little. much more is needed if we are to really tackle the problems of youth unemployment, and all this at a time when mr draghi has so far spent €1.7 trillion on quantitative easing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the celebrations of the european union and the syriza-anel government over the supposed fall in unemployment are provocative. they magically baptize the unemployed as inactive job seekers. one hour of work, and no pay, is sufficient to be considered as a worker, and shiftwork is arbitrarily excluded from parttime work. in greece, which is the country with the highest unemployment rate, the 'youth guarantee' means a break from unemployment for a few months, with 300-400 euros, without pension insurance, subsidizing employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. this is the condition for capitalist recovery, which will be paid dearly by the workers with a lifetime of work, whether they have a job or not. no unemployed without coverage, a benefit for the entire period of unemployment, at a level that the unemployed can live with their families. the only answer is to organize the workers' popular struggle to put obstacles in the capitalist labor galley. the president interrupts the speaker. )
mr president, mr avramopoulos, i bring to you the cry of agony and protest of the people of samos and the other aegean islands who can no longer stand any more refugees and illegal immigrants. yesterday, sunday, october 21, i went to samos and spoke to a large gathering of residents who are demanding the island's decongestion, the decongestion of the "hotspot", where over 4,000 refugees and illegal immigrants are crammed, while the available accommodation places at the "hotspot" do not exceed 800. the meeting was also attended by several of the trapped refugees who are seeking to go to other countries of the european union. mr avramopoulos, it is necessary to take measures to decongest the aegean islands. implement the decision of the state council on the promotion of illegal immigrants. finally, the relocation programme from greece to other countries of the european union must be continued, since the previous one was only implemented by 1/3. it is significant that of the 17,209 who had to leave greece for germany, only 4,447 have left... (the president interrupts the speaker) )
mr president, in greece, seven years and three memoranda of unemployment, wage cuts, pensions, benefits, flexible working, and savage tax evasion, the majority of the people are unable to pay loans and taxes. the european union and the european central bank, the international monetary fund and the syriza-anel government in the evaluation of the third memorandum agreed on another capital increase for the banks, liquidating the red loans to give new ones to viable, i.e. large enterprises, eliminating self-employed and small and very small enterprises from the market. already thousands of bank accounts of salaried employees, pensioners and self-employed are being seized, thousands of online auctions of public housing are being accelerated or loans are being sold to the crows of speculative funds. in fact, there is no protection even for the first home, the salary and the pension. the theft of public property is huge. the popular mobilizations demanding "legislate now to ban auctions of the first home, the confiscation of wages and pensions, cancellation of interest and haircuts and freezing of loans" to strengthen with the slogan "down with the hands from the houses and the sweat of the people".
mr president, the syriza-anel government in greece, however provocatively it tried to portray the trump administration from wolf to sheep, has made big and dangerous commitments with the visit of tsipras to the united states. temporary expansion and upgrading of souda and other bases to serve more effectively imperialist projects, $2.4 billion worth of equipment for nato needs, while no one can be satisfied with government statements about nuclear weapons. the promotion of the interests of the united states monopolies through investment is at the expense of the rights of the working people. the geostrategic upgrading of the interests of the greek bourgeoisie, which are welcomed by the government and all the bourgeois parties, is consolidating greece as a base for imperialist interventions and wars at the expense of the people. the daily popular struggle must be intensified to condemn the new, even more dangerous agreements of the syriza-anneles government with the united states in rupture with the power of capital and with imperialist organizations such as nato and the european union.
i have read and listened carefully to the conclusions of the european council and to the commission's positions. pesco and security and defence issues will be discussed at length in the coming months. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the community's financial interests is a very good one. as regards refugees, four pages on a fortress europe and a single paragraph on the causes of migration and refugees. you describe working with libya and neighboring countries on the verge of destabilization and blackmailing them with development funds, trade and visas to trap refugees and migrants in military camps. you are aware, of course, that this is a ticking time bomb that will soon explode and the heavy price will be paid by all of us. politics is dividing you. it is tearing europe apart and unfortunately some people are still investing in short-term profits. i am curious to know what kind of europe you will be talking to the people about then.
madam president, the outcome of the european union's heads of state or government meeting last week does not represent a substantial step forward on the open issues facing the union. the results of the meeting are mostly generalized repetitions of known policies, at a time when the problems are becoming more acute. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. migration and refugee flows are not just a problem for greece or italy. it is a european problem and europe must deal with it centrally. i would like to express my satisfaction, however, at the statement by president tusk that the council has authorised the commission to examine the limitation of turkey's pre-accession funding. the erdoğan regime is moving further and further away from democratic principles and europe must respond accordingly.
mr president, mr tusk, you have mentioned the issue of unity and solidarity, but there can be no solidarity at this moment from the european union when you have this attitude towards turkey. turkey, which is violating greek airspace, violating greek territorial waters, threatening greece with casus belli, has occupied 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus. so what kind of solidarity are we talking about? what decisions were taken at the last european council? it is obvious that there must be an immediate halt to the accession negotiations with turkey and a freeze of all european union funds. moreover, what solidarity is there in the refugee issue for greece? the process of relocation must continue, because the programme is over and only one third of it has been implemented. both france and germany have only implemented one third of this programme. other countries not at all. the relocation programme needs to be continued and extended. greece cannot tolerate any more refugees and illegal immigrants.
mr president, once again the european council has discussed the serious issues facing the european union, but without having a practical proposal to be able to solve them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. no progress in the brexit negotiations. no progress on the immigration case. it is a unique and sad result that greece has been turned into a concentration camp for poor people who thought they had come to the promised land and have ended up living in miserable conditions because they are simply ruined financially but cannot stand them any longer. turkey is still provoking. it continues to send new waves of illegal immigrants to greece. it does not recognise the republic of cyprus. the european union, however, does not have the courage to close its doors and stop funding it. finally, at a time of economic crisis, when more than 120 million europeans, mainly in the south, are living at or below the poverty line, we are discussing an increase in military spending on the pretext of tackling the threat of cyberspace. a situation, an excuse that brings only smiles ironically to those who know about defense and to those who do not know.
mr president, today in greece the employment figures were released and the news is not good at all. one third of the employees receive a salary of 394 euros and 22% of them are under 29 years old. so even though statistics show that since the youth guarantee program was implemented, unemployment has decreased from 23.8% in april 2013 to 16.6% in april 2017, greece remains unfortunately a leader in youth unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is time, therefore, to respond to what in greece is called the '360 euro generation'. it is time to give them the opportunity to have sustainable jobs by exploring how this can be done. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the new technologies in the european union. with sustainable jobs, with incentives for businesses, with a reduction in the cost per employee and ultimately an increase in their pay. it is necessary, after all, to have a sustainable production model that will be based on these young people, not only because they deserve an opportunity, but because they deserve a great european future.
the future of the european union's finances should be a matter of concern to us, mr president, because although we are almost halfway through the current multiannual financial framework, the data are particularly unpleasant. first and foremost, we have countries which have not yet emerged from the crisis, such as my country, greece, and which need support through direct investment involving european financial instruments. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of refugees, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives to promote the integration of refugees. thirdly, we have the outcome of the brexit negotiations, which is not yet in sight and which will probably create a vacuum in the negotiations. in this context, it is necessary to prioritise our activities. firstly, to safeguard cohesion policy in conjunction with the juncker plan and to attract private sector investment. then, linking the course of corrective change with the rewarding of countries in crisis. and third, remember: all those who do not make it look to the community resources to retrain and get back to work, to send their children to day care, to have a minimum income. for our common future, we must now take care of our finances.
mr president, i fully endorse what mr kelly and mr mann have just said. it is indeed necessary to have a minimum income guarantee in our societies and especially in my country, greece, i will give you two numbers: 274,000 households benefit from the minimum income guarantee, 611,000 of my fellow citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a clear priority to support those affected by poverty and social exclusion. but it is also necessary to encourage their social reintegration, with unhindered access to the labour market, and it is necessary to promote policies of lifelong learning, retraining in new skills and acquisition of qualifications that will accelerate the reintegration into the labour market of people who feel rejected by their work. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, mr timmermans, citizens are no longer satisfied with wish lists, they want concrete actions with measurable effects on their lives. they are calling for action to boost employment, to reduce inequalities, to strengthen social cohesion. they want the european social charter to be a reality and to have an impact on their lives, reducing unemployment, precarious and poorly paid work, combating poverty and social exclusion. the european social charter and the european social pillar are, so far, just a label. they are calling for the growth and employment pact to become a genuine growth and employment pact and not a dogma of obsession with unilateral austerity and fiscal rigidity. they are calling for a single european asylum policy and a europe of solidarity with refugees, which does not place all the burdens on my country, greece, and italy, leaving countries like hungary and poland, which refuse to honour their commitments, untouched. if we move in this direction, and you have a great responsibility to do so in practice and not just in words, that will be the best response to the european far right, which is seeking a europe that is weak, divided, bound by nationalism and with ever-increasing social and regional disparities.
madam president, i am confident that 2018 will be just like all the previous years of this commission. you have again announced a great deal, analysed great plans and objectives. but again, the results will fall short of our expectations. as in previous years, so in 2018 you will not provide a solution to any of europe's big problems, but you will certainly continue to blame those who are ideologically opposed to you as populists and the peoples of europe will continue to suffer the mistakes of your political choices. after so many years of economic crisis, growth has not returned, austerity continues and the european union is becoming a two-speed europe. illegal immigration continues to be a huge problem, especially for countries in the south. the european union remains an organisation reluctant to impose restrictions even on accession states such as turkey. on the contrary, erdogan seems to be able at any time to exploit and discredit european politicians. finally, the only positive thing so far has been that your irrational and ideologically driven policy has convinced the citizens of the united kingdom to break free of the shackles of the union once and for all. we hope that the other peoples of europe will soon follow.
mr president, mr timmermans, i shall concentrate on the question of relocation. on sunday, october 22, i had been to samos, one of the aegean islands. the aegean islands are currently home to some 20,000 refugees and illegal immigrants. in addition, greece has a total of some 70,000 refugees and illegal immigrants. the question of relocation has not been advanced because the programme has only been implemented in one third, i.e. of the 17 209 people germany was supposed to take in, 447 have been relocated. in france, 3,948 people have been relocated, whereas 12,599 people had to be taken. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, once again we are in the same play, in an austerity budget, in a budget which supports forced fiscal adjustment, a budget which has no funds to deal with unemployment, to fight poverty, which has no funds for growth. a budget of no more than 150 billion euros, whereas mr draghi has allocated 1.7 trillion euros through quantitative easing. you realize that this process cannot proceed. at the same time, it is a budget that gives money to turkey, a country that owns 37% of the republic of cyprus, a country that threatens greece, a country that violates greek airspace. how is it possible to give money to erdogan, who is particularly aggressive? a budget that gives money to albania, which oppresses the greek ethnic minority in northern europe, which demolishes the homes of the greek ethnic minority. is it possible to vote on such a budget?
mr president, the 2018 budget fully reflects the misplaced political priorities of the union, the islamisation and de-christianisation of europe, the increase in terrorism and illegal immigration, the uncontrolled action of ngos and, of course, the control and commissioning of economically weak states. the european union is not a party to the maastricht treaty, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. this is not the europe that the people want. the european union is a europe which, while we all know that it is heading for disaster, its political elite is only concerned with the administrative and economic adjustment of the union and the member states. the basic principles of the union's functioning are being undermined, and in areas such as social security, pensions, health systems and education, the union is intervening unfairly, although expressly prohibited by the treaties. the citizens of the member states will not stand idly by in this political coup d'état. the greek people in particular, who for seven years in a row have been experiencing the supposed solidarity and subsidiarity of the partners through the imposition of memoranda and recession.
mr president, the council and the european council consider that it is a state within a state, that it can do whatever it wants, that it is not controlled at all, while it is a given that articles 316, 317 and 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union give the european parliament the right to grant discharge for any part of the budget. and that means that it also grants immunity to the activities of the council and the european council. but when the council does not come, does not discuss, does not give information, it is obvious that it is 'writing in its old shoes' the rights which the european parliament has. this year we're seeing a slight differentiation: at least the council is here. last year he didn't even show. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the activities of the european council and the council itself cannot be exempted. at the same time, we must also check the work of the eurogroup, which uses the council's premises, uses interpretation. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european community for a long time.
the tragic murder of daphne caruana galizia has brought to light a serious problem that has existed for centuries and which unfortunately still exists today: freedom of the press. the authorities have always tried to control journalists. this was usually done by bribery, and those who did not submit to the blackmail were threatened, raped, and, in many cases, murdered. in the current era, the attempt to suppress press freedom is carried out in other ways, such as arrests and sentences of journalists and publishers, closing newspapers, and banning social media, as president erdogan does in turkey. even in greece, only a few brave journalists give a foot in the door to mps, meps and members of our party, golden dawn, the third political force in the country, because they are afraid of being fired by their employers. all states must realize that journalists are performing a function and must protect them so that they can carry out their work without distraction, thus safeguarding freedom of the press, which is a basic principle of the functioning of democracy. i hope daphne's blood is the last to be spilled on the altar of international free press. may her memory live forever.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies. mr president, the report we are discussing today is concerned with one of the greatest risks to millions of workers worldwide. the existence of carcinogens in the workplace. cancer is the leading cause of work-related deaths and some 20 million workers in the european union are exposed to carcinogens. the proposed measures are aimed at improving the health protection of workers by reducing exposure to chemical agents and should therefore be supported. i believe that the protection framework needs to be extended further to include additional factors that threaten human health and fertility. the limit values for the factors already provided for, such as hardwood and softwood dust, inhalable crystalline silicon dioxide dust and chromium compounds, also need to be reduced. health should always come first.
the report on the protection of workers from carcinogens at work, mr president, is another wish list, apart from the addition of certain controlled substances and the change in exposure limits. the wishes, of course, stop where the profits of the business begin. this is what sets the limits, since safeguard measures are limited by economic feasibility, so-called cost, conditions of fair competition, etc. cancer, the number one cause of death, is estimated to cost billions of euros in economic damage, not human lives. capitalist barbarism at its height. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the years of the memoranda, industrial accidents - in fact, employer crime - skyrocketed without taking into account cancer. the organized workers' struggle for humane working conditions, for the health and life of the workers will only bring results if it targets the cause of evil: the profits and the power of the capitalists.
mr president, cancer is a major cause of death for thousands of workers, and two to three million workers are exposed to toxic substances. asbestos is a classic case, as are wood dust, chromium iv and crystalline silicon dioxide. serious measures must therefore be taken to tackle the problems posed by exposure to carcinogens at work. and it is a given that directive 98/24/ec gives minimal protection to workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the introduction of new substances, such as pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, pesticides, and pesticides. the european parliament must send the message that the health of workers is more important than the profits of companies.
mr president, cancer is the second leading cause of death in europe and the first to be linked to work. unfortunately, poor working conditions expose workers to substances that are dangerous to their health, as well as to substances that are dangerous to their reproductive capacity. at a time when low fertility is a huge threat to the very existence of all european countries, and given that work-related cancer is preventable, the states of europe must respond. they must require firms to improve working conditions and protect workers from exposure to substances which are dangerous to their health. they must also protect the fertility of men and women, and in particular monitor pregnant women from the first moment of their conception. finally, they should monitor all workers who have been exposed to carcinogens throughout their lives. at this point, the economic costs of all these activities should not be taken into account. a man's life is not worth money.
madam president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it's due to prejudice and stereotypes. let us not forget the dozens of pogroms historically perpetrated against the roma and, of course, let us not forget the millions of roma murdered in the nazi concentration camps. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the roma, to combat discrimination, to tackle stereotypes and to introduce integration procedures. and this can be done mainly through education and by creating conditions of trust. at the same time, i believe that the roma community must also take on its own responsibilities, and must not be exploited, especially by various political parties which use them only for elections, in order to get votes. at the same time, they must not fall victim to machinations that take their own funds and use them without those funds going to the roma themselves. we must therefore take all these aspects seriously.
madam president, the implementation of the policy of the 'unbridled vine' is reflected in the blood of unsuspecting innocent people and is sowing fear among the citizens of the member states. internal enemies and opponents of nationalism are plotting to undermine europe against the rights of indigenous europeans and at the expense of national security and the rule of law. the more politicians promote national leveling through open borders and unchecked tolerance, the greater the moral complicity and criminal complicity in the literal and metaphorical slaughter of the peoples of europe. the immediate reintroduction of controls at the external borders of the union and the complete abolition of the schengen treaty are more timely and necessary as first steps in the fight against illegal immigration, terrorism and cross-border organised crime. the sovereign states need strong and secure borders, the eradication of destabilizing and anti-national nuclei and the consolidation of a climate of order and security as the primary parameters of development, sincere cooperation and solidarity between nations.
a question with a blue card. mrs hohlmeier, i have heard you say and imply that the far right, the nationalists and the far left are to blame for all the misery. when we come to strasbourg from greece, before we get off the plane they ask for our boarding pass. when we arrive at the airport, we go through a fireplace to check our passports. what schengen are we talking about and what united europe when there is a two-speed europe?
madam president, i am opposed to the removal of sovereign powers from the member states, which must continue to control their borders. in addition, the system of entry and exit controls in the european union should operate in a manner which respects personal data, the principle of proportionality and the case law of the court of justice of the european communities. at the same time, however, mr avramopoulou, the legality of schengen must be guaranteed here in france. as you know, we have been subject to passport control for two years now to fly from athens to strasbourg. secondly, tomorrow, as is the case every time the plenary session is closed, we will be waiting in huge lines at the airport for a passport control by a police officer. is that legal? i also ask, mr avramopoulos, is it legal to ask us to show our boarding pass before we get off the plane here in strasbourg? this is highly original. i want you to restore the legality of schengen here in strasbourg. all the meps are in line for passport control. it is unacceptable what is happening here in strasbourg.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen agreement is fully implemented. but since the european union, in the context of the removal of responsibilities from the national states, has not allowed them to control their borders and has taken it upon itself to do so, we have failed completely. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. when useless and euro-loving agencies like frontex, the coastguard and the european border guard have taken over the border guarding of these countries, this chaos has been created, and the schengen treaty has effectively collapsed. for decades, the controls were carried out by the national authorities without any problems. it is, after all, very naive to think that the terrorist and the illegal immigrant will come through official checkpoints. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the fact that the european union is trying to correct another mistake, costing 1 billion, with one mistake is a clear admission of failure. will you tell that to our compatriots, mr. avramopoulos?
madam president, fortunately this time we are not hiding behind our finger. we accept that sexual harassment exists in the european parliament, which should be one of the most protected workplaces in the world, where women are in the majority and the educational level is high. think, colleagues, how much worse things are for a refugee woman in a camp or for a domestic helper. let us start here, with the european parliament. first, we need a clear mechanism to protect victims of harassment to address the fear, or they won't report it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. finally, we demand that complaints of harassment in the european parliament be checked by an independent committee of experts so that hooding is not legitimized.
madam president, sexual harassment in the workplace is a bad habit that must be eradicated. first of all, it must be eliminated here in the parliamentary sphere, where meps have increased powers and assistants are totally dependent on them to keep their jobs. in my view, a member who exploits his position and oppresses or sexually exploits his assistants is first and foremost a coward. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. finally, i would like to ask the commissioner what the point is of informing football fans about violence against women. i've been watching football since i was a kid, i've been in the stands, and i've never seen violence against women. when there are clashes, it's male fans of both teams that get involved, not women and men.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that today's debate is very important, not because we are discussing it now and giving victims a further incentive to complain and to claim their rights, but because it is a subject which has existed, exists and unfortunately will exist as long as there are loose consciences and sick minds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but when we talk about harassment in the european parliament, i ask that the complaints be very specific, that there be a will on the part of the commission to condemn them immediately, because otherwise we give the impression that they may think that the temple of democracy which is the european parliament is characterized by immoral behaviour.
mr president, this 2018 budget fails to meet the real needs of the citizens of the union. the question is whether this is the europe that its citizens dream of. the european union is a europe which, while we all see it heading for disaster, the political elite is busy with the administrative and economic adjustment of the union and the member states. ladies and gentlemen, when balanced budgets are the sole end in themselves, initiative, ingenuity and innovation are destroyed. when money is the goal, dignity and morality are pushed aside. and when the sovereignty of the member states is undermined and the homogeneity of the nations is distorted, europe dies. that's why i voted against it.
mr president, i voted against the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2018, because it does not respond to the needs of european society today. first of all, it has no funds to deal with unemployment, especially youth unemployment. secondly, it does not regulate issues related to inequalities, poverty, social exclusion. it does not take any steps to bring the regions closer together. in addition, it has funds for turkey, a country which threatens greece's national security, violates greek airspace, has made the casus belli against greece its main element and has occupied 37% of the territory of the republic of cyprus. at the same time, the budget is supporting albania, a country which is aggressive towards greece and which is suppressing the rights of the greek ethnic minority in northern epirus.
mr president, i voted against the introduction of an entry-exit system because the commission's action does not cover the experimental response to the needs of reality. the proposed entry-exit system needs a comprehensive review, as does the schengen treaty. the creation of a register of third-country nationals, the tightening of border crossing procedures, the interoperability of systems and access to them, including by law enforcement authorities, are not enough. in addition, the immediate reintroduction of controls at the union's internal borders and a comprehensive review of the schengen treaty are needed as a necessary first step in the fight against illegal immigration, terrorism, jihad and organised cross-border crime.
mr president, i voted against the entry-exit system in the european union first of all because i believe that it infringes the sovereign rights of the member states, without their consent, without the consent of the national parliaments. i think it is important that the states themselves can guard their borders and this is not a right that can be granted to the european union. i also believe that it is the exclusive right of the member states to clarify which third country nationals can enter their territory with or without a visa. this system is taking away all these state rights. in addition, we have here a system where, in practice, the european union will determine which third country nationals will be subject to the visa requirement and which will not. i would remind you that the european union recently said that kosovars do not need visas to enter the european union, when we know that kosovo is the nest of jihadists.
mr president, i voted against the report because i believe that greece's participation in schengen is turning my country into a magnet for thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants, who everyone thinks can get to the other countries of the european union via greece, by taking short-term schengen documents. the question is why thousands of refugees risked drowning in the aegean sea to come to the aegean islands and did not go to bulgaria by land. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the schengen agreement is respected. so as long as greece remains in schengen, it will be a magnet for thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants to come. i therefore consider it necessary for greece to withdraw from schengen. in this way it will cease to be a magnet for refugees and illegal immigrants and will be able to deal with the situation that has arisen. we have thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants in greece now and greece cannot stand this situation any longer.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking in the mediterranean is still a highly profitable business for organised crime, with a turnover of between 5 and 6 billion euros a year, and is playing a catalytic role in the escalation of the migration crisis. it is tragic that the mediterranean has become in recent years a place of exploitation of human misery in the worst possible way. the deaths and disappearances of migrants worldwide from the beginning of 2014 to june 2017 amounted to 22,500, with most deaths recorded in the mediterranean. last year, there were 5,143, the highest number recorded annually since 2000. my country, greece, is a crossroads for human trafficking because of its geographical location and, despite the initiatives that have been taken, which are important, we have not yet succeeded in controlling the phenomenon. in august, september and october of this year alone, more than 10,000 people arrived on the greek islands. it is worth noting that traffickers are fast changing routes, while organizing and advertising themselves via the internet. the fight against the crime of human trafficking is therefore achieved mainly by limiting demand from the migrants themselves. the development of legal routes to europe is the only appropriate way to achieve this and we strongly support this effort. strengthening cooperation with third countries of origin and transit, the dublin renegotiation and the promotion of a european framework for the resettlement of refugees are at the heart of our efforts. solidarity, mutual trust in the exchange of information and effective cooperation between law enforcement authorities are the key to bringing this criminal and repulsive phenomenon under control. as long as we agree that the responsibility lies with all of us.
mr president, the fighting has never stopped; on the contrary. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is the european union's responsibility to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. the european union and the greek government have a great responsibility. the guidelines of the last summit are summed up in the line 'keep refugees out of the european union by all means'. the fast track deportations you call it elegantly "returns" that feed the smuggling networks that otherwise fight and encourage the fascists. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the schengen acquis. on the one hand, selected cheap workers who will be accepted and, on the other, in the name of preventing immigration, big business in africa and the middle east. single wives in the service of the monopolies. it is necessary to strengthen the solidarity of the peoples in order to enable refugees and migrants to reach their final destination, fighting against imperialist wars, nato, the european union and exploitation.
the european union has been the greatest failure of the european union in the face of immigration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union has been the victim of the populist slogan 'we will not make europe a fortress' and has deprived the host countries and the external borders, namely italy and greece, of the right to protect their borders, and this flood of illegal immigrants has created the problems we have mentioned. in this way, these people live in miserable conditions in both greece and italy. so the populists have won a great victory. the european union has not become a fortress, but a vast concentration camp for the poor and the unhappy living in miserable conditions. but the populists on the left don't take these people into their homes, nor do they feed them. we do this, we who love our country and who will save our country because we have an effective and correct way of dealing with... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. the european union must turn its eyes and attention to the aegean islands, which erdoğan daily threatens to fill again with refugees and mainly illegal immigrants, to the aegean islands where thousands of refugees and mainly illegal immigrants are trapped and whose inhabitants can no longer stand this situation. if you visit these islands, the inhabitants will tell you that the situation has reached an impasse. in samos, the situation is explosive. the same is true of lesvos, the same is true of chios. and there the residents react. they can't stand any more illegal immigrants, because most of the people who gather there are illegal immigrants. this is why measures and severe punishment are needed against those involved in the slave trade rings and networks which transport hundreds of illegal migrants to the aegean islands.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today to discuss this important and timely topic of the economic policies of the euro area. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr hökmark, and all the shadow rapporteurs for the report. as you rightly point out in the report, economic recovery in the euro area is continuing and strengthening. it has become increasingly broad-based across countries. all 28 member states are back to growth. we are witnessing steady employment growth with unemployment at its lowest level in eight years and improving business sentiment, with confidence at its highest in a decade. we see that our economic policy priorities of supporting investment, structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies are delivering results. but, despite this robust recovery, we still see subdued core inflation, wage growth that does not reflect labour market developments, large current account surpluses in some euro area member states, high debt levels and persistent investment gaps. most importantly, we see persistent economic and social divergences in the euro area. these make it harder to manage our economy and mean that the recovery is not benefiting all european citizens equally. the years prior to the crisis saw a trend of real convergence within the euro area. however, it partly masked the boom phase of the boom-bust cycle that unravelled later. but this convergence trend was brought to a halt by the crisis, and since then we have been witnessing persistent divergences. i agree with you that the euro area harbours untapped economic potential and that we have to deploy all our efforts to increase potential growth, while making growth more inclusive. achieving sustainable and inclusive growth is the ultimate aim of everything we do in the european semester. this must be done by taking into account and tackling the individual structural weaknesses of our member states. we see positive tendencies in the eu economy, but there is no time to relax. we should aim at strengthening the resilience of our economies, boosting productivity, growth and inclusiveness. reforms must combine the goals of creating efficiency and stability with a strong focus on fairness and empowering people over their lifetime by making them ready to face changes. as you know, in november the commission will issue the annual growth survey and a proposal for a recommendation for economic policy in the euro area. the recommendation aims to identify common challenges in the euro area, and this will serve as guidance for consequent country—specific recommendations. at the same time, we must continue to work on deepening and strengthening our economic and monetary union. this is precisely about addressing the current lack of convergence in the union. a well—functioning economic and monetary union should become our main tool for renewed convergence in the euro area. future reforms should make sure that economic and monetary union delivers on its original objectives: growth and jobs, as well as economic, social and territorial cohesion. the new architecture should create stronger incentives for reforms and support national policies with new instruments at european level. in all, it must be able to deliver on the initiatives for a deeper and fairer emu, as announced by president juncker in his state of the union speech and in the commission’s work programme. the forthcoming emu package, which we will present on 6 december, will comprise a number of these initiatives. we will propose to bring the european stability mechanism into the european union legal framework in order to make it more democratically accountable and, at the same time, to strengthen its role and improve decision—making procedures. we will propose the creation of a dedicated euro area budget line within the future eu budget in order to provide for four functions: structural reform assistance, stabilisation function, a backstop for a banking union and a convergence instrument to give pre—accession assistance for member states on their way to euro membership. we will also propose incorporating the substance of the treaty of stability, coordination and governance in the emu into the eu framework, as was initially agreed in 2012. with a view to 2025, the commission will also set out views on the possible creation of a permanent european minister of economy and finance and present exploratory work for the possible development of the euro area safe asset. we will also continue our work towards completing the banking union and capital markets union. our economic and monetary union will only become stronger if solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand. so we need to work closely together towards this ambitious and important objective of deepening the emu and making it more resilient. i look forward to hearing your views on this very topical report.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, mr dombrovskis, the economic policy of the eurozone based on austerity and forced fiscal adjustment has failed. the economic breakdown of the european south, which has been filled with millions of poor people and huge armies of unemployed, is proof of this. the fact that the troika has turned greece into a vast social graveyard, with pensions and starvation wages, with the looting of public property, with the seizure of greek homes by the 'crows' is proof of this. this is demonstrated by germany, which is accumulating huge trade surpluses because of the eurozone. at the same time, the structural and institutional deficits of the euro area are exacerbating economic deadlocks, increasing deficits and huge public and private debt. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is not a good one. it needs a change of course. it requires a fair distribution of the wealth produced, the cancellation of the terrible debt and an increase in social spending.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr dombrovskis, as you yourself have admitted, inequalities, both social and regional, have increased dangerously in the years of the crisis. instead of convergence we have divergence between rich and poor, north and south. this is why deeper political and economic integration of the euro area is needed, but with a focus on reducing unemployment, fostering growth that supports the weakest and social cohesion. and that is why measures are needed: a strengthening of the juncker fund, more funds to reduce youth unemployment, a strengthening of the role of the european investment bank, a boosting of demand and investment in countries like germany which has brutal primary surpluses at the expense of the european south, and also european solutions to the debt which is a european problem. mr dombrovskis, it is time for action and not for words and wishful thinking in a spirit of 'business as usual'. that is what the european parliament is asking you to do.
mr president, we must finally admit that economic and monetary union, which was imposed by means of illegitimate procedures in the maastricht treaty, has had disastrous economic, social and political consequences in many member states, and in my country in particular. unemployment rates, especially among young people, are structurally high, entire social groups are becoming poorer, the number of non-performing loans is rising rapidly, investment is not taking place because of the prolonged recession, and gdp growth rates are continuing to decline. the budgetary and monetary policy must be the sole responsibility of the member states without restrictions and intervention by the union, as is the case with the signature of memoranda or country-specific recommendations. in a spirit of full respect for democratic principles and the principle of national sovereignty. in addition, a formal democratic, feasible, simple and rapid mechanism for smooth voluntary withdrawal or self-exclusion from emu and the single currency must be provided for.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, in the name of the capital adequacy of the greek banks, in the name of the liberalisation of the securitised loan market and in the name of the management of non-performing loans, the looting of the people's housing in greece is taking place. greek banks, after three recapitalisations costing the greek people over 50 billion, are once again at a disadvantage with loans in the red on their balance sheets amounting to 102 billion euros. the troika and the greek government have agreed to hammer out even the first house through electronic auctions and the sale to special funds - the "crows" - of red loans. they are indifferent to the suffering greek people, they are indifferent to the effects of the seven-year economic crisis and the policies of the memoranda that have led to poverty, destitution, unemployment and the destruction of the country's productive base. the greek people, mr president, with the slogan 'no house in the hands of the bankers', say no to the auctions of the people's property and housing, and defend their home, their work and their dignity.
mr president, mr dombrovskis, the red loan problem has reached a ceiling in greece of over 100 billion euros. the recent announcements by mr draghi of increased provisions on banks' balance sheets due to red loans give commercial banks the alibi to securitize and sell red loans to special funds, i.e. to 'the ravens', and even, instead of a lens board. since march 2016, i had proposed to apply in greece the cyprus model that establishes a preferential right of the borrower to buy his loan at the price of the first offer made by the "crows". at the same time, i proposed the creation of a borrowers' rescue fund so that greeks could save their homes from the "crows" in order to put an end to the electronic auctions. so, €4.5 billion of the €25 billion left over from the third loan package of €86 billion can finance the borrowers' rescue fund so that no house goes into the hands of a banker.
mr president, the european union's agreement with australia and new zealand could strengthen greece's economic relations with new zealand, and especially with australia, where a large and dynamic greek community exists and operates. the agreement covers a great many sectors of the economy and of course it covers agriculture, livestock, meat production, dairy products, areas in which australia and new zealand are very strong. that is why we need to have measures to protect agriculture and livestock in greece in other countries of the european union, and to protect products of designated origin such as feta, kalamoni olives and crocus. and so that we do not have situations like we had with ceta, there must be transparency in the negotiations and it must be made clear that, as it is a mixed agreement, we must have the involvement and participation of the national parliaments and that, for this agreement to take effect, it must be ratified by the national parliaments, not go through a procedure like we went through with ceta with the supposed provisional application of the agreement without it having been ratified by the national parliaments. we're making this clear from the beginning so we can move smoothly during the negotiation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the competition rules are applied in the member states. the additional charge that lufthansa arbitrarily decided to impose in 2015 is both an undue burden and a blackmail on passengers, because if passengers want to avoid the additional charge, they have to book through its own platform without being able to compare prices. if that is not the definition of monopoly and unfair competition, then what is? why has the commission for two years turned a blind eye to this monopoly blackmailing of consumers, travel agents, tourism and the whole transport sector?
madam president, during the last part-session we discussed ryanair. the situation he had created was unacceptable. so now we're talking about lufthansa, which charges a special fee of 16 euros if the ticket is not purchased from its own website. it is clear that we have a breach of consumer law. it is obvious that this is unfair competition, but above all, mr stylianides, i believe that it is an exploitation of the dominant position that lufthansa has in the airline market. because it's a huge, very large company. so you have to initiate antitrust proceedings, because that's the only way he'll understand. i would also like you to look into the following: lufthansa is also a shareholder in fraport. fraport is a huge company that manages frankfurt airport and has taken over all 14 regional airports in greece, and has other airports in total. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid granted to fraport. please take action on this matter.
madam president, we extend our condolences to the families of the victims in portugal and northern spain. it is a very big disaster. the debate also highlights the need for a european system of civil protection and for the means to be provided. i would say, mr stylianides, that there could be a combination: increased funds in the solidarity fund and a slight change in the conditions, which are quite high. there must be a supposed 1.5% of gdp damage. there are procedures like this that only cover infrastructure. they do not cover damage to private persons or farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures. it should also not count in the deficit any funds that either portugal or spain will provide from national resources to deal with these disasters.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr costas chrysofgosy, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on monitoring the application of eu law in 2015 (2017/2011 (ini)) (a8-0265/2017)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank all the members of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament who contributed to the completion of my report on the application of union law in 2015. regular and consistent monitoring of the application of european law is essential for the proper functioning of the european union's institutions and for improving its many weaknesses. the european commission's report on this issue focuses on the formal implementation of european legislation by the member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the main areas in which the commission report shows that most infringement proceedings were brought against member states for delayed transposition of european rules into their internal legal order in 2015 are the areas of labour mobility, transport, energy and the environment. although in 2015 the number of new complaints about breaches of european law decreased for the first time since 2011, concerns were expressed that a significant number of new complaints concerned sensitive areas such as employment, social affairs, social inclusion, entrepreneurship and justice. the responsibility of the member states for the application of european law does not, however, in any event relieve the institutions of the union itself of their duty to respect and act in accordance with union law. the institutions of the european union, even when acting as members of a group of international lenders, are bound by the treaties of the union and by the charter of fundamental rights. the practice of the union institutions signing memoranda of understanding with member states as lenders under which they undertake to apply onerous austerity measures, without these agreements being subject to european law, is reprehensible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and that the community's financial interests are protected. these obstacles are provided for in union law and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is incorporated into primary law. it is further noted that, due to the imposition of substantial cuts in administration, justice, health and social welfare through such measures, the protection of fundamental rights and principles such as the right to health, the right to work, the protection of human dignity is ultimately undermined and the social state is undermined in general. such practices are therefore not in line with the legal culture of the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this applies in particular to the mechanism for the relocation of refugees, as some member states do not comply with the agreement. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. in conclusion, the application of union law must be comprehensive and not selective if the union is to convince its citizens that it respects its principles and thus improve the long-term prospects of its own sustainability.
mr president, happy birthday to you. commissioner, for my country, greece, the application of european union law in 2015 is synonymous with the destruction of democracy and popular sovereignty. in 2015, the greek people democratically decided to change the neoliberal economic policies that the greek governments and the troika had been implementing in previous years. the greek people, with 62% in the referendum, voted against the continuation of the memoranda imposed by the troika. the european union's institutions responded to this overwhelming decision with an economic coup. with the closure of the banks as a weapon, they blackmailed greece into signing for the third time the sell-off of the country, the cuts in incomes and pensions, and the deregulation of the labour market. in other words, they have again imposed memoranda which, among other things, violate the charter of fundamental rights, as is commonly acknowledged, and have led to poverty and unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the greek people have condemned these policies, they hold the european institutions and governments jointly responsible for the disasters they have caused and they will give them the appropriate response.
thank you for your wishes on my name day.
mr president, mr andriukaitis, the european commission is supposed to be the guardian of the treaties. the question that is hanging over the greek people is who will ultimately protect us from the guards, and that is because the work and days of the european commission as a member of the troika are among the darkest moments in the functioning of the european union. the commission has not been the guardian of the treaties but has for the past seven years been the guardian of the interests of the creditors. as a member of the troika, together with the european central bank, he imposed memoranda, slashed wages and pensions, cut public spending, dismantled the health and social security system, filled greece with armies of unemployed and millions of poor, turned greece into a vast social graveyard. thus, it violated the law of the european union, the fundamental rights of the charter of human rights and trampled every concept of democracy in greece, as it not only did not respect the result of the july 2015 referendum against the memoranda, but on the contrary blackmailed the overthrow of it. so what application of the law are we talking about?
mr president, happy birthday to you. i would also like to congratulate mr goldsmith on the thorough way in which he has dealt with some of the critical and sensitive issues in his report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the reason for this is that the law in many cases does not meet the requirements of modern society and does not meet its needs. in addition, there is very little cooperation with national parliaments and the european union often imposes decisions which are contrary to the interests of certain states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the rapporteur. mr president, may i also wish you well on your birthday. i would like to thank all my colleagues, both the great majority of speakers who have expressed very positive comments on my report and those who have expressed critical views, because in the context of a democratic dialogue criticism, when it concerns the substance of the issues, can sometimes give us the opportunity for fruitful reflection. the fact is that the european union is today in a state of doubt about its future. a short while ago, a member state for the first time decided to leave by the vote of its citizens. but the challenge is not limited to this member state. it is clear that a large proportion of european citizens feel that the union's policies do not sufficiently serve the objective of the common prosperity of its peoples, proclaimed in its founding treaty. the union must take these concerns of the citizens seriously and in my view the way to deal with them is to be more committed to european primary law, to the treaties, and in particular to the charter of fundamental rights, with emphasis, i would say, on social rights. the right to health, the right to education, the right to work, the right to social security, and more generally the right to a decent life. to achieve this, there needs to be more solidarity, both between member states and within societies, with redistribution from the haves to the have nots, rather than the other way around, as is largely the case today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs laura ferrara, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the implementation of the environmental liability directive (2016/2251 (ini)) (a8-0297/2017)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report on the directive on the responsibility for preventing and remedying environmental damage concerns us all. the purpose of this directive was to establish a common framework for damage cases based on the 'polluter pays' principle. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. we must therefore formulate a modern and functional definition of environmental damage, based on the rapid evolution of pollutants from industrial activities, incorporating specific cases such as, inter alia, offshore activities. the framework for environmental responsibility should also be extended to include the restoration of ecosystems to their original state after the cessation of harmful occupational activities. we must realize that protecting the environment and the health of citizens is our primary responsibility.
mr president, the greatest danger to the environment does not usually come from the activities of ordinary citizens but from large companies. they build the big factories, they drill and extract, they transport thousands of tons of oil. as recent accidents have shown, a single such event is capable of causing untold destruction, the impact of which may affect even future generations. who doesn't remember the chernobyl nuclear accident, fukushima or the oil spill in the gulf of mexico? so we have to hold companies, but also governments, to account. companies should have both civil and criminal liability in the event of an ecological disaster. the governments that license the companies, in case they had not established strict rules, should also have responsibilities. by 'responsibility' i mean criminal, as well as immunities and other methods by which appointed politicians and government officials avoid prosecution. the environment is not something we inherited from our ancestors. we don't own it. we borrowed it, and we have a responsibility to hand it on to our children better than we received it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market. in greece we recently had the sinking of a 45-year-old tanker carrying 2,500 tonnes of fuel oil in the saronic gulf, just outside athens, which caused a huge ecological disaster, but also great damage to the fishermen and the professionals in the area. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will make a number of proposals in the future. firstly, as regards the establishment of the european recovery and compensation fund, it should be extended to cover all losses in general. we must find a way, even in the form of interest-free loans, and, until the culprit is found, prevent the damage from happening in the first place. secondly, to cover possible damage at the licensing stage. for example, the shipowner in this incident i mentioned to you before in greece said he was financially able to repair the damage and pay compensation. so we have to find a way, either through insurance coverage or through insurance options. thirdly, the public and citizens must be involved in the monitoring and recording of all this, in addition to the administration. in other words, measures are needed to implement the aarhus principle so that citizens can participate in all processes affecting the environment, that is, their lives.
mr president, the debate has shown that the european union's legislative framework does not cover damage to the environment, so we must of course regulate matters in such a way that companies that pollute are fully liable and that those who have been harmed can be compensated. i am referring to the recent damage, the pollution in the saronic, for example, where although we have raised questions about the rehabilitation of the victims, the businessmen, the fishermen and all those involved in the area who have suffered damage, the european union itself has shown that nothing has been done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, mr andriukaitis, as regards the previous debate, you, as the commission, have more or less washed your hands and pretended, as pontius pilate, that you know nothing about the crime, that you know nothing about what happened in greece with the memorandum. but it was the commission which was supervising the implementation of the memorandum, mr andriukaitis. you imposed the mandates of the creditors on greece, so you have an absolute responsibility as commissioner, and what you said earlier in the debate i think has nothing to do with it. i, mr andriukaitis, am answering you because i had no right to answer before. the commission is not going to be able to wash its hands of this and say: 'i don't know what happened in greece'. who oversaw the implementation of the memorandum? you as the committee have been overseeing it. so you have a huge responsibility.
mr president, the environmental liability directive as a common framework for the prevention and remediation of environmental damage must include all pollutants and elements due to human activities and interventions. in this sense, in addition to the existing environmental damage definitions in the previous directive, we should extend the scope to include damage to the air, fauna, flora, biodiversity and ecosystems. in addition, cooperation with international organisations, in particular the world health organisation, will maximise the chances of achieving environmental objectives. under the 'polluter pays' principle, violators are now subject to strict penalties and fines for taking action to restore the environment and ecosystems to their original state. the protection of the environment is not a political issue of competition and is a matter for all of us, since the environment is directly linked to sustainability, sustainable development and quality of life.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in wine and spirits, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a very good one. this means that the role of cities, the role of urban areas, rural areas, coastal areas and especially islands, but also mountain and remote areas, should be reflected. the statistics resulting from the territorial typologies are therefore very important tools. in this way we will be able to analyse data such as the gdp of rural areas, measure employment and how it relates to urbanisation. this data will be of particular help to the island regions, particularly the aegean islands which are affected by the troika policy, by the memoranda, but also by the thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants who are settled there. one is a city on an aegean island where there are high transport and energy costs, and another is a city on mainland greece. it is therefore necessary to reduce vat for the aegean islands, because only then can they move forward and become competitive. in turkey, vat is 5%, and in greece the troika imposes 24% vat on the aegean islands. this cannot go on.
madam president, the existence of basic definitions and statistical criteria for the various territorial classifications is a key tool for shaping the union's regional policy and drawing useful conclusions. in order to have comparable territorial units, we need to choose different territorial levels and data from the member states so that the variation in the size of territorial units is as small as possible; otherwise, the extraction of conclusions based on the linking of different statistical areas, such as regional accounts, the labour market, rural and island development, agriculture, tourism, shipping policy and others, will be distorted and divergent. statistics as a science needs tools that are technologically neutral, up to date and always adapted to the target, in order to ensure the best possible quality of reality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know how the rhine and the danube are used for transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted, and that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, we should consider the social aspects, i.e. we will now have wage arrangements and social rights based on the country of work and not the country of origin of those who work; the commission has therefore concluded that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty.
mr president, commissioner bulc, in my country, greece, for every person killed in a road accident there are four people with permanent disabilities, eight with serious injuries and 50 with minor injuries. road accidents in greece cost 3 billion euros every year. the new technology can help to reduce accidents drastically and, indeed, the emergency lane, the system for restoring the speed to the prescribed limit, as well as the diagnosis of distraction and driver fatigue are measures which we must adopt immediately and compulsorily in the member states. 72% of accidents are caused primarily by human error. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road transport is not compromised by the lack of safety standards. at the same time, we need to upgrade the roadworthiness system in crisis countries like greece, where the car fleet is almost abandoned. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty of rome, and the council's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty of rome.
mr president, the report on saving lives and improving car safety in the european union is an important initiative to which we must adhere, as thousands of our fellow citizens are losing their lives on asphalt. the most important cause of accidents is alcohol consumption. at the same time, it is essential that serious infrastructure is put in place so that we can actually drive on roads that are safe. i think it is important that the emergency lane is always used and not taken over by all drivers. at the same time, we must pay particular attention to accidents involving pedestrians and especially cyclists, and this is why municipalities are required to take concrete initiatives to modernise infrastructure with money from the european union itself. it requires considerable circulation training of the pupils themselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised.
mr president, the protection of human life is a key factor to be taken into account when and how often we need to improve certain systems of technology. this is of course also true of the construction and use of modern vehicles, which must be constructed in such a way as to guarantee that accidents are reduced. of course, for this to happen there must be other conditions. there should be good roads, there should be systems to assist driving and, in addition, there should be a procedure for checks both on vehicles and on the roads on which these vehicles are travelling, as well as protection for cyclists, who are particularly vulnerable to accidents. finally, because, as the ancient greeks used to say, 'all money is man's', the training of drivers plays a very important role. drivers should not get into a vehicle and operate it if they are not sure they know how to drive it and if they do not comply with the provisions that ensure the protection of citizens. furthermore, man should control the machines and not be controlled by them.
the question is "blue card". mr president, mr president, our subject today is not religious tolerance, it is concrete. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the subject. the crusades are long gone, but there is a particular religion which has shown by its fanaticism and its terrorist actions that it wants christians killed. how do you explain that ?
mr president, unfortunately, even today, christians are persecuted in 140 countries and some 100,000 people have suffered and died for their faith. although the jihadists of the islamic state are by far the primary persecutors and murderers of christians, having carried out a genocide in syria and iraq, there are other countries in the world where christians are persecuted, such as china, north korea, iran, iraq, nigeria - because of boko haram - and turkey. turkey in particular, which for over 1000 years has persecuted and killed orthodox christians, continues to practice the same tactic. even today, it challenges the european union and greece, as it has taken the first steps to convert the symbol of orthodoxy, the church of st. sophia in istanbul, into a mosque, and refuses to open the theological school of halki, which it has kept closed for 45 years. how are christian countries responding to these challenges? they are indifferent and, possessed of a paradoxical, inexplicable and unacceptable phobic syndrome, they hide the persecution of christians from their citizens. it is the duty of christian countries to protect christians, it is a matter of honour for them. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey, and the turkish government has already expressed its views on the situation in turkey.
mr president, the persecution of christians throughout the world has hit home even on the european continent itself. the last appalling and reprehensible phenomenon is the persecution of greek christians of the greek ethnic minority in northern epirus. where the albanian authorities demolish churches, like the church of st. athanasius in drumades. the aim of the illegal demolition of greek homes in himara is to uproot the greek ethnic minority in northern epirus from its ancestral homes and to demographically alter the population by transporting and settling thousands of muslim kosovars and other albanians. what measures will you take, mr vella, to protect the greek minority in northern epirus, which is now experiencing every day the violent violation of its religious rights? when will the albanian leadership finally respect the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus and the corfu protocol of 1914 on the autonomy of northern epirus? enough of the persecution of greek christians in albania. in addition, turkey must be forced to respect the rights of christians in turkey, stop desecrating the hagia sophia, end the ban on the operation of the chalki school and, at the same time, stop dismantling the greek churches in occupied cyprus.
mr president, the main and eternal enemy of christianity is islam. islamic extremism, along with the rivalry of other numerous religions, communist or post-communist oppression, secular intolerance and intolerance, are the battles for the existence and continuity of the christian faith. finally, tensions and stigmatisation are being transferred within european states. however, recorded incidents are silent, such as the murder of twelve christians by muslim illegal immigrants, where - according to the italian police - the motive of the crime was religious hatred. the controlled television media and the tabloid press propagandize for multiculturalism and unlimited tolerance, while failing to cover the massive and systematic persecution experienced by so many christians. the so-called christian europe is facing threats from many sides, mainly from internal enemies, from political choices that selectively invoke fundamental rights, from judicial decisions in the name of secularism and, above all, from cold demographic and cultural data. the christian religion is under persecution, as it was under the roman and ottoman empires. soon, however, christians will stand up for the confession and defense of their faith.
mr president, the posidonia oceanica, as we have analysed, is indeed endemic to the mediterranean and is certainly an important ecosystem which contributes to the conservation of biodiversity. but it takes too long to develop and is very easily destroyed, mainly by pollution, fishing, trawling and coastal development. a short time ago, mr vella, i asked you how the sea and fisheries fund could compensate those who have suffered damage from the pollution of the saronic. i have not yet received a reply, especially now that there is also a danger for the posidonia oceanica in the area. i should also like to point out that on 28 may i questioned the fact that the greek seal's coat violates directive 92/43, which designates the posidonia oceanica meadows as a priority habitat. you replied to me on 16 august that greece must comply with this directive. i ask you, have you done any research since then? is the file of the investigation into the greek investment open as to whether it is indeed in breach of directive 92/43 and thus endangers the posidonia oceanica meadows? i would like an answer to these questions.
mr president, cohesion policy must deal with demographic problems, especially for greece. on 10/11/2015 i had submitted a question on how the problems due to the memorandum will be addressed, because the demographic problems in greece have intensified. i raised the same issue again on 29 july with a different question. we have a study from the berlin institute in germany which says that the demographic prospects for greece are ominous. the study estimates that between 2011 and 2016 greece lost 3% of its population due to fewer children being born due to the economic crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the population of the european union is not affected by the demographic change.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is a good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. young people must be encouraged to settle in the countryside, to take up farming, to start a family, and then to be encouraged and protected for motherhood and to have a high level of health services so that young people do not leave these areas.
mr president, the report on action on retail financial services is particularly interesting. i shall concentrate on the issue of transparency in borrowing, because we are familiar with the swiss franc mortgage clauses and this concerns at least 70,000 families in greece, but it also concerns many other borrowers throughout europe because, with the exchange value of the swiss franc rising, borrowers are in effect paying the installments and not only not paying back, but owing even more money. this is a matter of concern to us in greece and to the committee on petitions, and there should be an answer to this question, because the financial destruction of the borrowers themselves is now continuing. in practice, this was not a loan but a stock exchange transaction, of which the borrowers themselves were not informed. the commission must also take action, mrs crețu.
madam president, panama papers, luxleaks, paradise papers, and who knows how many more leaks will come out in the future? what difference does it make ? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. and how can that be done, when a lot of companies and politicians all over europe are taking advantage of the various loopholes in the law so that they can move their money to an offshore company in the most unlikely parts of the world, and legally avoid taxation? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax system is not distorted. in greece, where - incidentally - the wife of the leader of the official opposition appears in these leaks, but he is preaching the purge. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ultimately the law will not change and these shell companies will continue to operate, because that is how it suits most politicians, who legislate themselves, and the big capital that helps them in their work.
madam president, luxleaks, panama papers, now paradise papers, offshore tax havens, shady corporate names, and how many more disclosures in the future, depending on the competing interests served by both the disclosers and the disclosers. why are you pretending to be upset? you're being hypocritical. the european union and its governments are not legislating to give them everything they need for investment and profits, pensions and starvation wages, hard labour? illegal transactions are a pittance compared to the legal capital gains tax breaks, which are extracted from the savage taxation of the people. the funds you sell loans to aren't nestled in tax havens? after you've supposedly sued them, don't you invite them back as investors with new tax breaks? the pseudo-fight between the parties over who is involved and who reveals does not hide the fact that billions were born from the social exploitation that everyone serves. the tears of the extreme right, the conservatives, the social democrats and the so-called neo-left, syriza style, are hypocrisy. fair growth in an unfair system and moral capitalism do not exist. it is and will be a paradise for the few and a torture for the many.
madam president, we have a provocative tax evasion by the global elite at the expense of 99.99% of society, of the consistent taxpayers, of the revenue of the member states and of the welfare state. and i ask the question: why do some journalists, whom we must protect by strengthening the protection of whistleblowers, find more information than the council, mr maasikas, than the commission, mr moscovici, than the member states? how long are we gonna keep on talking and wishful thinking? mr moscovici, after the panama papers you tabled some proposals - inadequate in my view - which were blocked in the council and nothing was done because the german and dutch governments, among others, blocked them too. so we have to go into action. a fair tax system, mr moscovici, means that profits are taxed where they are produced, not at zero rates in tax havens. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules on the application of this regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're finally tired of talking, we want results.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the multinationals, the oligarchs and the various big players, taking advantage of the existing legislation and the legal loopholes, transfer their profits to tax havens and avoid billions of taxes every year. tax dumping and aggressive tax planning are a daily occurrence in the european union. the netherlands of dijsselbloem, luxembourg of juncker and malta are countries which provide tax avoidance incentives to the various multinationals. the luxleaks, panama papers and paradise papers revelations simply prove publicly what is widely known: that the rich evade taxes and the known underdogs, that is, wage earners and pensioners, pay taxes. mr moscovici, the greek people are outraged by the revelations that at least 130 greek dignitaries are in the paradise papers, while the troika and the creditors are preying on the greek people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
madam president, the paradise papers is a tax evasion scandal which is added to the long list of scandals with an economic, but above all a moral, dimension and which involve politicians from many countries. unfortunately, it is now the norm that offshore tax havens launder dirty money, attract drug dealers, criminals, tycoons and politicians. despite all the announcements and commitments of governments, parliaments and politicians in general, scandals reflect a socio-political pathology, characterize political life and fuel the crisis between society and politicians. the solution is not to manage the scandals in a communicative way so as not to damage the public image of those responsible. the only way to combat this phenomenon is through legal institutionalisation, the severity of penalties and sanctions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following measures: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the report on cooperation between national authorities in consumer protection is part of the debate on the new european regulation on consumer protection. the rapid development of international trade in a digital environment offers great opportunities but also creates significant risks for consumers, with negative economic consequences at individual, national and union level. this leads to a weakening of consumer confidence in cross-border transactions. it is estimated that one third of e-commerce sites are in breach of european consumer protection legislation. the theoretical upgrading of the national authorities' capacities provided for in the new regulation is therefore not sufficient. we must in practice strengthen the capacity of the authorities, particularly in the most economically vulnerable member states of the union, to combat unfair practices that threaten citizens and the economy.
mr president, the unruly development of the single market and the growth of electronic commerce make it necessary to take measures in the form of a regulation to protect consumers themselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not discriminated against, and that the consumer is not discriminated against. therefore, measures need to be taken. firstly, the powers of the national authorities must be strengthened, because only then can there be effective protection. secondly, to support consumer organizations, which will be able to take legal action themselves, directly, to protect consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe that these measures are in the right direction and we will be able to say more during the vote.
mr president, the great growth of the internet has enabled a number of consumers to do business over the internet at a distance. this possibility, however, exposes them to the risk of being the victim of small or large-scale fraud, such as depositing money to buy items that do not exist or buying items of questionable quality. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of electronic communications networks. it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area, but it is also necessary to say that the commission is prepared to take action in this area. this will increase consumer confidence and will also increase distance trade.
ladies and gentlemen, i declare the session resumed after the award of the lux prize. before we go to the vote i will give the floor to mr amjad bashir.
mr bashir, i have listened carefully to your proposal and the reasons for it. i am committed to forwarding your proposal to the president of the european parliament immediately.
the next item on the agenda is voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
the time for voting is over.
mr president, unfortunately, about 92% of all accidents are due to the human factor or to the interaction of the human factor with the vehicles or the infrastructure. however, in addition to the development and implementation of safety systems geared to driver and vehicle behaviour, emphasis should also be placed on significantly improving the state of the road infrastructure, in particular through regular and effective maintenance of road systems and road marking systems and through appropriate upgrades to cope with traffic congestion. i am voting against this report because it is moving in the right direction in terms of shaping existing legislation to ensure road safety at a pan-european level, with effective and regular road checks, funding for the creation of new and better road infrastructure and the strengthening of research and technology in cars.
i am voting in favour of this report, mr president, because it sets out basic definitions and statistical criteria for the various territorial classifications, so that there is a common reference point for drawing conclusions and for shaping the union's regional policy. although there is currently no option for member states to choose different territorial levels and data in such a way that the variation in the size of territorial units is as small as possible, the report is moving in the right direction. the statistical tools must be further improved, technologically neutral, updated and always adapted to the objective in order to ensure the best possible quality of reality.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a breach of the directive is a very good one. however, the union policy in the retail financial services market has contributed to higher product prices, reduced competitiveness, increased consumer suspicion and the slow death of the retail financial services sector. organised interests, cross-compliance and unfair competition are fuelling fraud, ruthless taxation, insolvency of consumer redress services, while at the same time hampering many retail financial services, such as online sales of financial services, the exchange of banking products, money transactions, sales of insurance products, etc. finally, i would point out that any legislative initiative to improve existing rules must be accompanied by a procedural system for imposing penalties and sanctions on infringers at union level, otherwise it is doomed to oblivion and contempt.
madam president, we don’t have to use malta as a scapegoat to cover up our collective mistakes. is malta the only tax haven in the european union? no. is malta the only country that facilitates tax evasion? no. is malta the only country that facilitates money-laundering? no. is malta the only country in the european union that does not protect whistle-blowers? no. all these phenomena together are producing corruption, and corruption produces violence and crime. so if we want to avoid crime we have to establish pan-european legislation against those phenomena: against corruption, against money-laundering, against tax evasion, against tax havens. let’s do that. stop crying crocodile tears for caruana.
madam president, as is well known, daphne caruana was murdered in her car bomb. daphne became known for her fight for transparency, investigating the panama papers and possible links to the maltese government. she reported the threats she received but was not granted protection; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not discriminated against. we call on the commission to support the rule of law and to take all the necessary initiatives in each member state of the european union to shed light on this case and any other outstanding cases. as plato said in the republic, to see things as they really are, the truth of things. the reality for the rule of law in the european union is becoming problematic; poland, hungary, malta, greece are just the beginning. we are waiting for initiatives from the european commission and the european council.
we are also concerned about the silence and threats against journalists. the unfortunate journalist was investigating the panama papers and possible connections of government officials to money laundering and corruption. mr timmermans, the european union must decisively strengthen the legal regime against money laundering and corruption, and at the same time legislatively and directly combat the phenomena of tax havens, tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax dumping. this is not just malta, of course, but many member states of the european union, luxembourg and the netherlands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted.
mr president, the motion for a resolution on the rule of law in malta goes beyond the bounds of political correctness and is an attempt to intervene directly in the internal affairs of a member state. first of all, let me point out once again the selective reference to the rule of law, which does not apply to cases of political and judicial persecution of nationalists. on the other hand, the republic of malta has a lawfully elected government which has the sole responsibility for implementing and protecting the area of freedom, security and justice and for respecting fundamental rights. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i therefore propose that the members who tabled the motion for a resolution take similar action, namely to name and condemn all the corrupt politicians, socialists or not, involved in scandals. they've damaged the public interest, abused power, evaded taxes, and their names are on lists and papers.
mr president, the murder of the unfortunate daphne caruana galizia has brought to light some issues relating to the application of the rule of law in malta. for this reason, the government must not only find and arrest its murderers, but also provide convincing answers about whether there is corruption in the country or not. of course malta is an independent state and strives to apply the principles of the rule of law within it, but can the government guarantee the protection of the press as well as the protection of those who investigate scandals and whistleblowers? it is true that a key source of wealth for the country is the provision of services, but does this justify turning the country into a financial paradise? in any case, the maltese government must answer the questions, otherwise it will give the european union the opportunity to intervene in its internal affairs and to abolish the independence of a free and sovereign state.
mr president, the wto ministerial meeting in buenos aires is an opportunity for fruitful reflection on the future of the wto, which, while it should support fair trade and development, is in fact reinforcing social inequalities, poverty and the opening up of markets that are disrupting local economies. the famous facilitation of international trade through the wto is thus tearing apart the european south, small and mediumsized enterprises, the agricultural and livestock sectors of the union. the wto is encouraging outsourcing, the transfer of industries to the developing world and unfair trade practices, because these industries of european and other multinationals based in the developing world do not comply with the international labour office's labour laws, and child labour is now flourishing there. so despite the growth of trade and the increase in food stocks, hunger is increasing among the populations. we are still waiting for a study of the social impact of the wto's operation.
mr president, the union's participation in the ministerial conference of the world trade organization can play an important role in the regularity of a multilateral trading system. the topics of discussion, such as the sustainable development goals and the paris agreement commitments, are of no less importance than the promotion of trade and connectivity for sustainable development. but the results of the common commercial policy, despite the good intentions it had at the outset, show that it has destabilised the markets of the member states, fails to ensure fully reasonable prices for european consumers and fails to combat unfair competition. what primarily affects the lives of european producers and consumers is the legality of public procurement, the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, subsidies, e-commerce, unfair quotas and the viability of their companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the eastern partnership is an ambitious but sensitive policy of the european union which, if not properly implemented, risks creating many problems in the union. although it has been eight years since its launch, the positive results are very limited. the european union has also made a number of promises to liberalize the visa regime for the purpose of issuing visas. on the other hand, in almost all the founding members of the association, problems have arisen with the deterioration of human relations and the implementation of democratic principles. in addition, azerbaijan and armenia continue to have disputes over the nagorno-karabakh region, and belarus, among others, has participated in the large russian exercise zapad in october 2017. the european union must therefore pay particular attention to the further manipulation of the eastern partnership and not use it as a means of pressure against russia by making concessions to partners, especially when they show that they do not respect international law and challenge and do not apply fundamental european principles.
mr president, the multifaceted mechanism and the imperialist alliances that the european union is building in the soft underbelly of russia, called the eastern partnership, are accompanied by a host of rotten pretexts: tackling corruption, fighting terrorism, consolidating democracy. the means are known: the concentration of troops with or without nato, the penetration of monopolies into new markets, sanctions, weeping and well-fed ngos with eurofunds. epidicus: which imperialist power - the european union, the united states, russia or china - and which monopoly groups will control its markets, energy sources and transport routes? it is only one piece of the puzzle in the wider competition raging in the middle east, the balkans, the mediterranean, africa and the arctic. the greek government is also at stake, involving our people in adventures to advance the geo-strategic interests of the greek bourgeoisie. the peoples should not pay for imperialist rivalries with their blood, by their struggle to claim and become the owners of the wealth they produce themselves and enjoyed by a handful of monopolies.
the eastern partnership is about armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine. their economic relations with the european union can play an important role, provided they are mutually beneficial. however, the european union's free trade agreement with ukraine, once it is implemented, is bound to lead to particular problems for european agriculture and livestock farming, and in particular for greek farmers. we are in a particularly critical situation, as we will now have duty-free imports, cumulative imports of livestock products - of no doubt quality - from ukraine. in addition, we must bear in mind that these countries are bound by international agreements on nuclear safety, and we are particularly concerned about the obsolete nuclear power stations in belarus and ukraine. the unemployment problem will be tackled by investments in the region and not by the free movement of workers to the countries of the european union. it is certain that, both in greece and in the rest of the european union, we cannot tolerate any more economic migrants.
madam president, for many years, the interests of multinational companies and big business have created the conditions which have enabled the establishment of a world economic system in which social dumping is not simply a wrong practice. it's essentially a core part of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, what is being done here is an attempt to counter dumping by companies from certain third countries, such as russia and - mainly - china, so that companies from germany and other european countries can gain an advantage. this is evidenced by the very existence of the european union, which has effectively institutionalized social dumping with the free movement of capital and people. we, on the other hand, are concerned about the average worker and entrepreneur, we are calling for the reintroduction of tariffs on goods and services produced outside europe and restrictions on the movement of goods and services within europe. only then will we be able to restore the people's lost dignity.
madam president, first of all i would like to wish you success in your duties. unfortunately, in the name of so-called free trade, the european union has abandoned the principle of community preference, which gave priority to the protection of european farmers and producers, over the last 40 years. the opening up of markets has practically dismantled the european south and european agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. end unfair trade practices and distortions by third countries which, in order to reduce wage costs, do not respect the conventions of the international labour organisation and allow child labour. at the same time, the same countries do not respect environmental standards and do not - of course - respect the multilateral conventions on environmental protection. in addition, we have a distortion of production costs, as they receive support from their own governments. therefore, measures are needed to defend against dumped imports.
mr president, the future partnership between the european union and africa must focus on specific areas such as the protection of human rights, the rule of law and pluralism, good governance, security and the fight against islamic terrorism, environmental protection and the implementation of measures to combat climate change, the regulation of the debt of african countries, the immediate cessation of the plundering of their resources and, of course, the fight against migration. this can be done mainly by investments aimed at reducing poverty and unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the oral question to the commission on the 'action plan for nature, people and the economy' on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000067/2017 - 2017/2819 ((rsp) - b8-0608/2017)
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the action plan, while an important step forward, is considered insufficient to achieve the biodiversity targets set for 2020. i have heard the commission's replies, mr vella, but words must be combined with deeds. i am referring to the protection of natura 2000 sites in greece. the last example is the brutal violation of the legislation for the protection of the natura 2000 area in the region of southern carinthia, on mount ochi in euboea, where wind farms are being installed which will produce 50% of the total wind energy in greece, destroying the environment, flora, fauna and especially wild birds. on sunday, november 12, i attended a protest rally in caristo. i am conveying to you, as i promised, the cry of anguish of the inhabitants who are asking for the protection of the natura 2000 network in the oaxaca region. i also expect an answer to the question i put on 29 september on this subject.
i have received a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
mr president, the report is based on opportunistic, fragmentary, immoral and out of context allegations. the union is attempting to intervene in the internal affairs of a country under the pretext of governmental threats against the rule of law. the powers which the commission seeks to exercise belong primarily to the council and the member states. instead of imposing the punishment of poland by selective reading of the treaties, i call on it to support the government authorities in casting off any communist burdens of the past and leaving them untouched in the exercise of their sovereign rights. the union proclaimed trust and hope among equals, but it has ended up being arbitrary in the interests of certain countries at the expense of others. this is also demonstrated by the establishment of a permanent mechanism of absolute economic control and domination in my country, greece, with the blessing of the left government. the government of an independent and sovereign nation must be accountable only to its citizens and, as long as it serves them, must not accept any outside interference.
in writing. the eu treaty should not be used by the commission and various political forces in the european parliament as a means of interfering in the internal affairs of a member state, especially when the people, on the basis of the principle of popular sovereignty, have made their own choices by electing government majorities who must implement their programme. at the same time, the eu must respect the constitutional structure and traditions of the member states. however, it should also be noted that the governments of the member states must also respect democracy, the rule of law, the eu charter of fundamental rights and the acquis communautaire.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, last winter we all saw the press reports about the difficult conditions and the vulnerable situation of thousands of refugees and migrants facing severe weather conditions in european reception centres. we cannot allow this situation to happen again. we have to make full use of all resources and instruments that are at our disposal. according to the data supplied by the greek authorities more than 15 000 migrants are present on the greek islands as we speak. the hotspots are overcrowded, and living conditions could become very difficult due to winter conditions. furthermore, there are still thousands of refugees and migrants stranded in the western balkan countries that may face a difficult situation if the weather conditions worsen. no single country is able to handle this kind of situation alone. efforts should be made not only by the most affected countries, but also by all other countries in order to support them. the commission is the eu institution best placed to coordinate and help in such situations. the commissioner will brief you on the current plans to mitigate the situation, as well as on other forms of support that can be provided to the most affected countries or planned ahead as contingency measures. funding and concrete plans alone are, however, not sufficient to help us tackle this difficult situation. lasting stabilisation of the situation on the eastern mediterranean route will be key to improving the situation of these refugees and migrants. we need to further implement the eu-turkey statement. continued support for countries along the western balkans route is also key. in addition, we will pursue all legislative proposals on the reform of the common european asylum system, building on the work carried out so far. we need to gradually put in place a proper and sustainable asylum and migration policy.
member of the commission. – mr president, the situation of refugees and migrants facing potentially harsh winter conditions has always been a key concern for our commission. our clear priority is to provide all member states and our neighbours with support in their task and efforts to protect the refugees and migrants during the winter season. we all know that this is not a new issue, and the commission has been proactive in assisting and supporting the authorities on the front line throughout all previous winters. but our collective preparedness has to be structured because – yes – winter comes every year and nobody knows or can predict how heavy it may become. we all know this is a demanding exercise for national authorities, notably in those countries which host a large number of migrants. looking first at the situation in greece, it is indispensable to recall the enormously positive and stabilising effect brought about by the activation of the eu—turkey statement in march 2016. since the very beginning of the crisis, the european union has made available around eur 1.3 billion in support to greece for tackling its migration and refugee challenges, making greece the largest beneficiary of eu home affairs funds, as well as the exclusive beneficiary of the new eu emergency support instrument. this eu funding enabled the upgrading of the hotspots and ensured the operation of the open accommodation site of kara tepe on the island of lesvos. necessary services such as washing, cleaning, catering and food provision, housing, transportation, legal aid, medical services and educational activities are not a luxury. they are a must. they are essential for the dignified treatment all migrants must enjoy. without eu financial support directly to the greek authorities or via implementing partners such as the unhcr and the iom, many refugees and migrants would have been deprived of their fundamental human rights. last year, the commission also funded the purchase and installation of prefabricated houses and heating devices. this has also significantly contributed to the overall improvement of the reception conditions on the islands. but today we are again facing a situation of severe overcrowding on most of the islands. yes, the situation has become very difficult. this is due to a combination of factors: the recent increase in arrivals on the greek islands since the early summer of 2017 – even though limited – together with the still insufficient and not always adequate reception capacity and the still limited returns to turkey. we cannot have a repetition of last year. the shocking images from last year must not return. effective solutions must immediately be found. i have personally just come back from greece, where i had constructive discussions with the greek authorities. my colleague in charge of humanitarian aid, commissioner stylianides, has also been in close and regular contact with the greek side. solutions have been identified and we will continue to assist greece in addressing the situation, notably on the islands of lesvos, chios and samos. this is why, in order to tackle the situation on the islands effectively, the commission has also taken concrete steps to expand the scope of the rental scheme funded by the emergency support instrument. by the end of the year, the rental scheme will reach up to 2000 places, adding thereby up to an additional 900 places to the 1 122 places already available on the islands. to do this, the full engagement and cooperation of the local authorities is essential. eu funding was mobilised during the summer under the greek amif national programme specifically to support winterisation works in the hotspots on the islands, but there are winter-related works which still need to be completed. more precisely, electricity grids in hotspots should be upgraded, all housing units should be connected to electricity and further heating appliances should be provided for those housing units that are not equipped for winter conditions. additional prefabricated units should be transferred from the mainland where possible. the commission has also been calling for the creation of appropriate reception facilities, including closed facilities, on the islands. let me add at this point that the cooperation of all actors, at all levels and in particular with local authorities, is key. they are the ones who are most closely confronted with the dire situation on the ground. they all have to work together and support each other in the efforts to exit the crisis mode and move towards sustainable migration management. only if everyone does their part and all parts of a comprehensive strategy are fulfilled will the situation improve. the continuous, full implementation of the eu—turkey statement is key for the situation on the islands to improve. again, let me repeat that continuous support and timely delivery from all partners – the national authorities, the commission, eu agencies, the unhcr, the iom and other implementing partners on the ground – is essential. it is equally key that the greek authorities continue to invest in swift asylum and return procedures, which contribute to further improving the situation on the islands. the emergency support instrument is providing accommodation in rental apartments all over greece, not just on the islands, and we are ready to finance up to 30 000 places. as of 7 november, 15 458 refugees are already living in rental apartments, whilst the greek government is in the process of organising more transfers from the reception centres. furthermore, all 21 long—term commission—funded reception centres in mainland greece are winterised, with the greek government having undertaken to close substandard temporary reception centres before the end of the year. i would like to emphasise that our clear objective is to ensure that most people on the mainland are living in rental accommodation. the commission is also ready to fund additional places should such needs be confirmed. but our joint efforts on this matter are not just about greece. we, as europe, as a continent, have to remain prepared. we are closely following the situation in all member states, in particular the front-line member states, including italy and bulgaria, where there seem to be no imminent challenges concerning refugees and migrants for the winter. the preparation of the authorities and funds we have provided since last year have yielded clear results. for example, in bulgaria, the international organisation for migration has implemented an action for the purchase and distribution of winter clothing kits and shoes to migrants in all reception centres in bulgaria. according to information from bulgaria, these kits have already been available since october. regarding italy, no specific winterisation needs have been identified, but progress is being made in swiftly mobilising eur 35 million of emergency assistance to support italy in further catering for the needs of those arriving in the country and improving the efficiency of procedures. work is also under way on the possible mobilisation of up to a further eur 100 million to assist in meeting needs on the ground. any emerging winterisation needs could then be supported in this framework. let me now turn to serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the european union has been using all possible tools to help cope with the refugee crisis in both countries and is providing significant financial and technical support. last winter, the western balkans faced considerable difficulties due to cold weather and heavy snowfall, especially in serbia. we all recall the images from last year. expanding reception capacities and ensuring that existing centres are adequate for the upcoming winter has been one of our priorities, and we are working closely with the serbian authorities to this end. a special measure adopted in march 2017 with a budget of eur 23.5 million aims, amongst other things, to cover accommodation costs; both running costs and refurbishment. under the eu trust fund, an action of eur 21 million was approved in june in response to the syrian crisis. it includes a eur 16 million direct grant for serbia also covering costs related to the running of centres, including staff and utilities, education and health care. signing off on this by the end of this year is a priority. until then, humanitarian aid has allowed us to support the provision of food and non-food items, as well as protection to refugees and migrants in formal education and transport to schools. the more than eur 83 million allocated to serbia overall, both through humanitarian aid and pre-accession assistance, makes european union is the largest donor to serbia. in total, more than eur 118 million has been allocated to serbia in past and planned eu financial and technical support in the field of border migration and asylum management. for instance, ipa funding for the current deployment of 50 guest officers from eu member states has been extended until the european border and coast guard agency can deploy teams with executive powers. negotiations to allow for such deployment are ongoing both with serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. since the crisis broke out in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the commission has allocated eur 19 million specifically to help that country cope with the refugee crisis. this is part of over eur 50 million allocated in past and planned eu financial and technical support for the country in the field of borders, migration and asylum management. we will consider additional funds as needs arise. more generally, the european union is looking into providing additional support based on the needs agreed with our partner countries. we are all sensitive to this issue. it is, above all, a matter of our humanitarian duty. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, for four months now there has been an increase in the flow of refugees and migrants from the turkish coast to the islands of the north-east aegean. in september we had 6,000 new arrivals and about the same number in october, that is, in two months more than 10,000 foreigners came to greece. in the first ten days of november we have already had 1,603 new arrivals. you realize that every day hundreds of people are added to the existing ones, while the country is no longer able to provide them with health care and decent living conditions. in lesvos, which has a population of 32,000, there are 8,000 foreigners, but the infrastructure is only sufficient for 2,000. meanwhile, 1,500 people are living in tents, risking their lives if the weather changes. a similar situation exists on chios and samos. you are aware that the resettlement programmes ended on 26 september, making it impossible to move new refugees from the country to other member states. at the same time, the renegotiation of the dublin regulation, which envisages a permanent relocation mechanism, is affecting countries that refuse to distribute refugees proportionately in accordance with the principle of solidarity. the timeframe for adoption of the new regulation is therefore unknown. ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that my country, greece, is in a programme and has enormous economic problems with increasing poverty, but at the same time, despite this, it has made superhuman efforts to manage the migration problem satisfactorily so far. but i'm describing a situation that is today on the verge of a humanitarian crisis. i call on the commission to draw up immediately, here and now, an emergency plan for the de-clogging of the islands, otherwise we risk finding ourselves in extraordinary situations which will be difficult to deal with.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, greece has been receiving increased immigration flows in the last quarter. the aegean islands cannot tolerate more refugees and illegal immigrants, with over 15,000 people now trapped there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. at the same time, in greece, ngos are partying with the eu funds allocated to refugees, instead of using them to implement a winter project for asylum seekers. mr avramopoulos, in view of this situation, the process of immediate unblocking of the aegean islands that no longer have the necessary reception infrastructure must begin, those who are not entitled to international protection must be repatriated, european union funds must be allocated exclusively to local government and the state, the resettlement programme must continue and dublin iii must be amended to stop greece becoming a storehouse of souls, the slave trade rings carrying thousands of illegal migrants must be struck and, finally, a decisive message must be sent to erdogan to stop playing with the transit system.
the question is "blue card". mr president, mrs valenciano, i agree with you that we must do everything we can to improve the conditions for refugees, but as far as i know, the relocation of refugees from the islands to mainland greece is being hampered by an interpretation of the european union-turkey agreement by the commission. if so, is it not unfair to ask the greek government for something instead of the council and the commission?
mr president, commissioner, today parliament and the commission are expressing our concern at the inadequate preparation of the greek authorities for the coming winter. at the same time, in greece, the ruling party is torn by disagreements with the minister of migration policy, mr mouzala, over whether there is a maritime border, whether registration of arrivals is necessary and whether a joint statement with turkey is useful. the fact that we have not implemented this declaration, for bureaucratic, administrative or other reasons, has led to the accumulation of refugees and economic migrants on our islands and to the creation of inhumane living conditions. and just the day before yesterday, the deputy minister for finance, mr chartis, who is responsible for the budget, assured us - and i am reading his own words - that the implementation of the projects for the hotspots is proceeding normally. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a statement on the situation in the greek economy. if we are to see a repetition of last year's tragic situation, let us demand on behalf of the european citizens the immediate resignation of the responsible minister of finance and the assumption by greece of its concrete responsibilities for its administrative weaknesses. with 1.3 billion euros allocated to greece, we cannot fail to ensure humane conditions for a few thousand people.
mr president, commissioner, the debate we are having at the moment is the epitome of hypocrisy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation of illegal immigrants and refugees in the community is not affected by the crisis. what have we done so far? we were just watching the illegal migrants coming from turkey to greece and we were happy because they were only a few thousand and not hundreds of thousands, as was happening until now. has the european union put pressure on turkey to put an end to this unacceptable situation? the european union has a tendency to meddle in the internal affairs of states, as it is doing now with poland. did he put pressure on the governments of the states that did not accept to take their share of the migrants in order to meet their obligations? the european union also wants to make greece a place of settlement for these unfortunate people. it is giving money and it wants them to stay in greece and not to leave greece and, unfortunately, the servile greek government and the official opposition accept this. and one last thing: the war in syria is over, why don't we send more... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, today, november 2017, and for the third year running, we remember - now that the cold is beginning - the thousands of refugees trapped in miserable conditions. in greek island shelters, more than 15,000 people are being housed when the infrastructure is only enough for 5,000, with the sea still drenching bodies and european leaders hiding behind the joint declaration with turkey. the commission's response to the refugee problem is not a meteorological phenomenon, but a sign of the permanent european winter we are living through, especially in recent years, when humanity, culture and refugees have been buried in the snow and mud. the rights of refugees under international law are being violated and the illegal agreement between greece and germany on a numerical ceiling on the process of family reunification has caused outrage. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's citizens are not forced to leave their country, and that the european union is not forced to accept the refugees. will a permanent european relocation mechanism finally be established? will family reunification be implemented without shame quotas? these are the main questions to be answered, not to find emergency solutions to weather phenomena.
in writing. the assurances that the eu-turkey agreement and the presence of nato and the euro-border guard in the aegean are dealing with the refugee crisis have collapsed. the alternating phases of the evolution of the refugee crisis follow the phases of imperialist wars and the turkish-european union conflict, with refugees becoming instruments of blackmail. the refugee flows have skyrocketed again. refugees are being crammed into inhuman conditions - despite the millions given to ngos - in internment camps on the islands, with capacity far below the number of refugees. the risk of death in winter conditions, like last year, is immediate. the situation is dramatic for refugees, construction workers and prison islanders. the european parliament has recently made this clear in its visits to the area. the travesty of the relocation programme and the dublin 'away the refugees' policy, which the european union and the greek government are pursuing to discourage the arrival of refugees, besides blocking family reunification, has led to a hunger strike by refugees in athens. the european union must not allow the people of the middle east to be forced to live in a state of war, to be forced to live in a state of war, to be forced to live in a state of war, to be forced to live in a state of war, to be forced to live in a state of war, to be forced to live in a state of war, to be forced to live in a state of war. the european union must be able to take action to help the refugees who are in need of assistance.
madam president, the european union must defend itself against unfair trade practices, which are practised by very specific states. i am referring in particular to china, which is dumping continuously, with the result that the steel industry in the european union has been virtually dismantled. we must therefore tackle dumping policies which are not only expressed in aid in the form of export subsidies but also in the fact that in a number of countries the international standards laid down by the international labour organisation in relation to employment are not being applied. so in the end we have a reduction in costs, precisely because of the reduction in wage costs because the international conditions in relation to labour legislation are not respected. at the same time, these countries do not respect the environmental conditions, and all this has the effect of reducing production costs and, of course, creating a dumping climate. the european union must deal with all of this.
madam president, i voted against the report on the eastern partnership because i believe that it is not mutually beneficial, especially when the european union-ukraine free trade agreement is currently in place and functioning. a deal that will disrupt the agricultural economy throughout the european union. i have already pointed out that this agreement will lead to a massive import of agricultural products - and mainly livestock products - from ukraine to greece, which will be of questionable quality and cheap and will, of course, result in the disintegration of livestock farming in greece. i therefore consider this operation to be dangerous and i also believe that the greek government should not have agreed to the process of ratifying the european union-ukraine free trade agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis.
madam president, i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for nature, people and the economy. i think it is an important project because it protects biodiversity and natura 2000 sites. however, the european union must demonstrate in practice that it respects natura 2000 sites and i am referring to the need to take action on the violations currently taking place in the oche mountain in south karelia, an area designated as natura 2000 site. and yet, there are a lot of wind farms being built there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty. the result is the destruction of the environment, biodiversity, fauna and flora, and action by the european union is required.
mr president, we are defending socialism, which in just a few years has solved major problems that remain unsolved in capitalism. he abolished unemployment and exploitation, he taught the people what it meant to have a permanent and stable job with rights, free health care, education for all, cheap housing and security for the future. the exploitative system you defend means a work galley, unemployed queues, permanent insecurity, auctions, people digging through trash. under socialism, people lived together in peace for decades. your system is dripping blood from the crimes of imperialist wars, with hiroshima, dismembered states and refugees. socialism defeated the monster of fascism in the second world war and fascism is the child of capitalism. the democracy you promote is the dictatorship of the monopolies. the mud, the anti-communism and the bans that the supporters and apologists of capitalism are recruiting show their fear. the people, taught, will find their way again. the rotten system is the old one. the future of the world is socialism-communism.
mr president, those who do not read history correctly are condemned to live it in its worst form. we do not condemn thoughts and ideas, we condemn the actions of particular regimes. because in the name of the highest ideals, the most heinous crimes in history have been committed. of course, if you look at the ideologies, it's like climbing to the top of a mountain that has social justice and freedom at the top. we are trying to achieve social justice through freedom and some people said they would achieve freedom through social justice. but the period of innocence has been over for 100 years since the bolshevik coup - revolution as they call it - with 100 million dead. the european parliament has declared 23 august as the day of remembrance for the victims of stalinism and nazism, and this is a specific act of these extremist regimes, and the council of europe has condemned the crimes of the totalitarian communist regimes. ladies and gentlemen, modern totalitarianism is populism and must be defeated, first in the european union and then in each individual country. we are protecting the european way of life, which has given us 70 years of peace and 70 years of good democracy. we condemn totalitarianism in all its forms, wherever it comes from. we condemn extremes and extremes.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution is a very good one. in this context, the rights of passengers, not only of buses but also of airplanes, are central. mrs. bulc, i'd like to inform you that according to today's publication in the newspaper "first issue" and the website, by decision of the german government, passengers from greece are being quarantined until may 2018. the use of a landing bridge (spout) will therefore be prohibited. passengers coming from greece will be taken by bus to a special checkpoint, where the federal police and security services will thoroughly check them and then they can go to collect their luggage. there is a serious issue of the rights of citizens of the european union and of passengers, and i want you to see this issue. we are denouncing it because it is a decision of the german government with effect from 12 november 2017 until 11 may 2018, in the context of decisions to operate schengen exceptions. please see it, because it's a serious matter of passenger rights violation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, let me first congratulate the european ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, on her excellent work. the role of the european ombudsman is crucial for transparency and the control of maladministration within the european union. at this stage it is crucial that this scrutiny be extended to other bodies such as the eurogroup, the troika and the esm. we have tabled amendments to this effect, but unfortunately they have been rejected by the other political groups. in relation to the troika, it should be noted that the european ombudsman has to investigate the conflict of interest in the commission between her role in the troika and the commission's responsibility as guardian of the treaties and the european acquis. the same applies to the conflict of interest between the ecb's current role in the troika and its mandate to act as an independent monetary authority. in addition, an inquiry into the troika's compliance with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union should be undertaken. we also need to strengthen accountability and transparency at european level, in relation to the eurogroup and the esm, which are taking painful decisions and imposing austerity and violent fiscal adjustment, as has happened with greece over the last seven years. finally, there should be further substantive research on the phenomenon of the jump from the public to the private sector, as in the case of former commission president manuel barroso, who became executive chairman of goldman sachs international. i wish mrs o'reilly every success in her work and she knows that we are with her in her struggle.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to congratulate the ombudsman on her clear, detailed and user-friendly 2016 report, while noting her constructive cooperation with parliament's committee on petitions. it is clear that all the institutions and bodies of the european union must continue to respond within the deadlines and improve their compliance with the ombudsman's recommendations and decisions. in particular, i urge the ombudsman to step up her efforts to ensure full transparency and access to information and documents relating to the eu pilot processes as a whole, the tripartite dialogues, trade agreements and brexit and economic decision-making processes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. finally, on the occasion of the occasional recognition of the european initiative 'stop tires', i call on the commission to reinforce the institution of the european citizens' initiative by an immediate review.
mr president, the report calls for transparency. the lack of it is a feature of many of the institutions of the european union. even the european parliament is in fourth place of the institutions under investigation and, yes, in some cases the lack of transparency is intentional. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we sometimes ask the services in the european parliament: is what you are asking us to do legal? what rule says that? can we read it too ? do you read him correctly ? and the answer is, we say it and that's enough. and so the bureaucracy of the european parliament's service is gaining more power than the only elected body of the european union.
mr president, mrs o'reilly, as european ombudsman, has followed the principles of proportionality and restraint in her interventions wholly and exclusively in the exercise of the powers conferred on her. however, several recommendations are still pending, the adoption of the code of good administrative behaviour is lacking, the transparency register is not practically binding, the public interest meetings of the president of the european central bank are not made public and there are signs of a lack of transparency in the negotiations and decision-making process of the union as a whole. clearly, opacity, lack of ethics and inadequate management of conflicts of interest are inherent and systemic in the union institutions. unfortunately, its determination, vigilance and experience are not sufficient guarantees to fully investigate cases and protect european citizens from instances of maladministration.
madam president, environmental protection must be a cornerstone of our policy, because the planet is being destroyed and there are natural disasters and catastrophes with many victims, just as there were at dawn today in greece, where at least 15 of my countrymen were unjustly killed by the devastating floods that hit the western atlantic. so once again a degraded area like mandra is mourning victims. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the recent floods. we express our sorrow at the unjust loss of our compatriots, we express our heartfelt condolences to their families, we express our full support and our best wishes for the speedy recovery of the dozens of injured and we ask, mr hogan, that the european commission initiate the necessary procedures for the financial assistance to greece in order to repair the damage and to compensate the flood victims in full.
madam president, over the last 30 years, the european union has embraced neoliberalism, implemented harsh austerity, implemented violent fiscal adjustment and created millions of unemployed and millions of poor people; that is the reality. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to compete with the united states in the world market. and what is he facing? faced with the indignation of the european people, faced with a crisis of legitimacy, and now coming to seek other policies, he says there must be a boost to decent employment. how did you do that ? what employment? the 24-hour part-time contracts? improving work under what conditions? with the starvation wages? is it possible for this situation to go on? the european union has suddenly remembered the welfare state and social protection, which it has dismantled. he remembered poverty, when he has created poverty. unfortunately, this is the reality.
madam president, the european union is proud to say that it will tackle wage and social inequalities and build, it says, a capitalism of equality. it's a joke. capitalism by definition means inequality, the capital-labour contrast. but today, especially, there is a challenge. today in greece, not in the resorts of the rich, but in the poor neighborhoods, in the working-class neighborhoods of attica, we have so far 15 dead from floods and the macabre list is growing. this is inequality. you see, flood control projects are not a priority either of the european union or of governments, which finance business groups with the blood of the people's taxes, and not measures to protect their lives and property. your fair development is barbarism. the rain is a natural phenomenon, the rain is your policy, which is responsible for all these tragedies. so let's not talk about the myths that you're going to eliminate inequality. take action today, use taxpayers' money for immediate relief, full compensation for families, flood and earthquake-proofing.
madam president, the acceleration of globalisation by the european union has led to a major economic recession since 2008, which has had a negative impact on the strong economies of the member states. so we had millions of jobs lost, there was a significant increase in the number of unemployed and eventually a significant elimination of the middle class in almost all countries. unfortunately, in the greece of the memoranda, the middle class has been completely destroyed. so inequalities were created in the distribution of wealth, the rich became richer and fewer and the poor poorer and more. the member states are unable to cope with this situation because primary production has been destroyed and there is therefore no development, no protection for industry. 'we have imports of products from third countries, free of duties and without safety standards, which create unfair competition for the corresponding european products; we have an unfair tax system that puts the burden on the economically weak. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of social security for the elderly.
madam president, at the beginning of the summer peach growers in amathia were forced to dump over 20 000 tonnes of peaches in landfills because the russian market was an important market for them and they had invested enough to be able to open up that market. the economic damage to greek farmers is enormous because of the russian embargo and they have not been compensated. the farmers had invested heavily in the russian market. other greek farmers who are involved in fruit and vegetable production have also suffered enormous damage. since september 2014, i warned you about this, mr. hogan, and i asked you a question, but you did nothing. the amount of eur 123 million that you were supposed to have was a pittance for all farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. understand this, sanctions are not going to bring any result. the only effect they have had is to protect the russian economy itself, the russians are now developing their own agricultural economy, their own fruit and vegetable production and soon they will no longer need imports. the opposite effect has been achieved by your policy.
madam president, about three and a half years ago, and because of russia's involvement in ukraine, the european union imposed sanctions on russia, which it has even extended until the end of 2018. in response, russia banned the purchase and import of fruit and vegetable products from the european union. this has created a huge economic disaster for producers, especially small producers, and especially the greeks, whose production was almost entirely absorbed by the russian market, a market which is large and, as has been shown, difficult to replace. the european union must therefore protect its producers and take the steps that will solve the problem. the problem is not solved by just giving some form of subsidies, it is solved by lifting sanctions against russia as soon as possible.
madam president, the question about the impact of the russian embargo on farmers says that this has nothing to do with the situation and the confrontation between the european union and russia over ukraine. why is he hiding the truth? why is he hiding the person responsible? everyone knows that this is the reason, that the european union initiated sanctions against russia and that it responded with an embargo. for three years now, the european union and all the governments without exception, including the greek, have been renewing sanctions every year, and thus the russian response, in full knowledge of the consequences for poor farmers and particularly for peach growers, particularly in greece, who are being hit hard by the common agricultural policy, the embargo and the terrible fall in prices caused by it. the kke parliamentary group has been sending a letter to the commissioner for agriculture for months and we insist that crumbs do not solve the problem. we demand immediate compensation for all farmers for all their losses from the european union, since it is the only one responsible for their tragic situation.
mr president, the european union's partnership with new zealand covers a wide range of activities, including trade. new zealand has a secondary export destination in the european union, from which it imports mainly industrial products, cars, machinery, television equipment, but also clothing and textiles. as new zealand imports mainly sheepmeat, wool, fruit, wine and dairy products from the european south, trade in these products should be conducted with particular caution. if, in fact, it is taken into account that the partnership provides for customs cooperation and the removal of certain technical barriers, including customs duties, trade defence must be activated, because there is a risk that products coming from new zealand will create conditions of unfair competition with the corresponding products of the european south, which is unacceptable and should not happen.
mr president, the european union's good political relations with new zealand are being used as a political phenomenon, as an argument, simply to move towards a free trade agreement, as was done with ceta. those who support free trade are usually from the european north, producing industrial products which they export to new zealand. but there is a serious problem, mr. hogan, which has to do with agriculture: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural production is hit and there will be a lot of problems for livestock farming, new zealand's dairy products and the food industry. we can't go back to a story like ceta. there must be protection for products with a designation of origin, protection for geographical indications, protection for feta and other products which are traditional for greece. let's not get back to discussing what happened with the ceta case and canada.
mr president, it should first be noted that sudan has not ratified the revised version of the 2005 cotonou agreement. its president, al-bashir, is accused of genocide and is currently evading a referral to the international criminal court. it is obvious that the problem of press freedom is one of the problems of circumvention of fundamental rights and freedoms in sudan. there is censorship and any newspaper that dares to criticize the regime is shut down. we have repeatedly had newspapers confiscated that have been highly critical of the regime and, of course, the latest case of journalists, especially al-abidine, who criticized through his newspaper corruption in the regime. the european union must take concrete action against the sudanese regime and, of course, ensure that any european aid given must go directly to the civilians and not to the regime.
madam president, first of all, i do not think there is a single sane person who does not condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks of fanatical islamists. there are 300 dead and 300 wounded from the recent bombing in somalia's capital, mogadishu, and authorities are confident that it was the work of al-shabaab. somalia is a country that has been plagued for decades by instability, armed conflict, civil war, food shortages, epidemics -- like cholera -- and, of course, a huge corruption problem. western interventions have, at times, failed to solve the problems and simply replaced one corrupt oligarchy with another. even the military, supported by western governments, continues to recruit minors to this day. we are opposed to interference in the internal affairs of third countries, but we must identify the sources of funding for all of this in somalia and strictly prohibit any company operating in the union from having any economic dealings which, as it turns out, is the main motive behind all these conflicts. i would like to inform the house that there has been a deadly flood in greece in recent days in which 16 people have been killed, 26 injured and 6 are missing. i hope the european union will help the situation.
madam president, we condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attack which took place on 14 october in mogadishu and which caused many victims; 358 dead and 228 wounded. a terrorist act by al-shabaab, the well-known islamist terrorist organization, which of course constantly recruits children, but also other civilians in somalia, precisely because there is poverty. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, including the introduction of a new vaccine, the introduction of a new vaccine and the introduction of a new vaccine. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, including the creation of a special unit for the protection of civilians. there are 420,000 refugees in kenya alone. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in somalia is not disturbed, and that the somali government is not forced to take any action to prevent the illegal immigration of people from somalia.
i'm the editor. madam president, madagascar is the fourth largest island in the world. it is a region rich in natural resources, but its people are extremely poor, with 92% of the population living on less than us$2 a day. in 1980, madagascar fell under the grip of the international monetary fund, which implemented its well-known programmes, resulting in poverty, unemployment and the seizure of public wealth. now it is under the influence of china, which has put it on the silk road, with infrastructure projects and with the chineseisation of the economy, which is filled with cheap chinese products and has been dismantled, resulting in strikes and resistance. this is the situation in which the country finds itself, with a political crisis and a conflict between the government and the judiciary, because of the claudine case, which is linked to bribery. it is obvious that the european union must intervene to restore order and to help these people to exploit their resources and their economy and to find political order, especially as they move towards the elections.
madam president, yesterday a deadly flood in my country, greece, in the suburbs west of athens, caused a huge natural disaster and we are already mourning the deaths of 15 people. in view of the expression of solidarity by the european parliament and the whole of the european union with the greek people affected by this disaster, and as an expression of condolences to the families of the dead, i propose, madam president, that we observe a minute's silence.
madam president, the joint draft general budget of the union will be adopted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote on the proposal for a directive. i hope, however, that this was the only part of the inter-agency farce which ended in dramatic failure. the priority and desire of the political elite is to spend funds in already strong member states and in third countries that are pressuring and exploiting situations through targeted illegal immigration. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the poorest countries, and has also set up a number of initiatives to promote the development of the poorest countries. it is utopian - if not criminal naïveté - to expect better results by applying the same policies, with known and failed tools. the european union is not a union of states, but a union of peoples. the first priority is to prioritise the real problems and needs of citizens and to find effective solutions. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
madam president, we are discussing the european union budget, which is financing - and is in fact financing - countries which do not respect the principles and values of the union; a budget which is financing turkey, which is threatening greece with casus belli if it proceeds to increase its territorial waters to twelve miles. the turkish government, which is violating greek airspace and greek territorial waters, is calling into question the treaty of lausanne and is desecrating hagia sophia. turkey, which has flooded the aegean islands with thousands of illegal immigrants, has illegally invaded cyprus, occupies 37% of the republic of cyprus and is violating the eez of cyprus. at the same time, the european union budget funds albania, which is violating the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus, demolishing houses in himara and making illegal claims on greek territory. i shall therefore not vote for such a budget.
mr president, mr cañete, the famous energy union has failed to meet the challenges of our time. it has failed, in particular, to cure the notorious energy poverty which affects 50 million of our fellow citizens in the european union. in greece in particular, over 100,000 households are without electricity because of their debts to the ppp. the greek people, impoverished by the troika and the memoranda, are freezing to death as the creditors have imposed an increase in the excise duty on oil and its price has skyrocketed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its own needs. in addition, greek farmers, who have been hit by the government's tax-cutting policy, are protesting because the very expensive agricultural oil, due to the increased excise duty imposed by the troika, is driving up production costs. it is not possible, mr cañete, to continue this situation in greece. i can't take it anymore.
member of the commission. – mr president, the flooding that took place ten days ago in west athens is a human tragedy. i immediately sent my condolences to the families and friends of the people who lost their lives. in the aftermath of the disaster the commission’s emergency response coordination centre was in close contact with the greek authorities to monitor the situation via the european flood awareness system, and through the help of satellite maps of the affected areas. president juncker met prime minister tsipras in gothenburg and he underlined the commission’s willingness to assist greece in every possible way. first and foremost, the commission is open, upon request from the national authorities, to rapidly modifying cohesion policy programmes. this means redirecting some of the funding towards the reconstruction of public infrastructure and the regeneration of economic activity in the affected areas. secondly, the eu solidarity fund can be activated, provided that all the conditions are fulfilled, should the greek authorities apply for solidarity assistance. with climate change bringing more extreme weather events, we need to be able to protect human lives and valuable assets and to make our regions, our cities and our towns more resilient. the european structural and investment funds are there to do just that. they constitute a full package that supports climate-change adaptation, risk prevention and resilience building. under the current programing period, eur 1.3 billion is available to greece for climate-change adaptation and risk-prevention measures. the commission is also ready to assist the greek authorities with the compilation of flood-risk management plans and river management plans. these are essential tools to determine what areas are more prone to floods and how to be more prepared. significant investment in water, waste water and anti-flooding infrastructure in greece has been supported by the european union over many years. let me give you some figures. between 2007 and 2013 cohesion policy programmes invested some eur 1.2 billion to improve water supply across europe, and that resulted in 1.5 million additional people having better access to water. over 370 000 more people had access to new or upgraded waste-water treatment facilities. also some eur 400 million was invested in risk-prevention measures. this investment improves the daily life of greek citizens and is helping to avoid disasters in many places. but there is more to it than a list of figures and visible results. those investments also show the spirit of solidarity that is at the heart of the european project, and that is equally important. thank you for your attention. i am looking forward to our debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the floods. fourteen days after the deadly carnage of november 15, 2017, 23 dead have been identified, although this is not the final number. the material damage is incalculable; there has been enormous damage to infrastructure, roads, roadways, homes and cars, water and drinking water quality and electricity supply. greece is struggling to cope with such a scale of disaster on its own. we thank all the parties in the european parliament for their prompt response. we thank the commissioner, mr crețu, for what she said earlier. i would like to thank my colleague, elisabetta gardini, in particular, for her willingness to visit the affected areas. we ask for community solidarity and help. to mobilise the solidarity fund immediately, to launch the european union and other european aid mechanisms and to draw up a five-year programme for the construction of flood protection works in greece, with the cooperation of the european investment bank. the responsibilities in greece will be attributed; both the current ones for the government and the region and the past ones, from many years ago. but a minister, a regional governor should have resigned, just as happened with the fires in portugal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of greece. we hope and count on the help of the european commission and the european union.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, the earthquake that struck mandra and new peramo has caused 23 deaths and widespread destruction. the situation is very difficult. many areas are inaccessible. even today, damage accounting is very difficult. the responsibilities are many and time-consuming. a tragedy like this cannot be used by anyone for petty politics. the lack of organized zoning has led to unruly construction, often even on streams. the inaction of the state authorities to build flood protection works after the fires of recent years has further aggravated the problem. but now we must see what happens in the future. the intention of mr stylianides to strengthen the european civil protection mechanism is positive and will help to deal with similar phenomena in the future. the european commission needs flexibility to activate the solidarity fund. the total gdp of the attica region cannot be an obstacle to the use of funds, especially when these regions are among the most economically weak. they need the immediate support of all of us. we must also work not only on rehabilitation but also on prevention. we must, without any red tape and red tape, speed up the absorption of community funds to deal with specific natural disasters.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the west attica region - and the city of mandras in particular - is experiencing an unspeakable tragedy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. flooding caused by extreme weather events, in a theocracy that has hit the area. at the same time, the deadly floods have highlighted the longstanding criminal negligence and responsibility of successive greek governments and the attica region, which allowed the flooding of the streams and did not proceed with the execution of the necessary flood control works. mr president, we express our condolences to the families of the victims of the deadly floods and, as we did on 15 november in the european parliament's plenary session in strasbourg, we once again ask the commission to take the necessary steps, in cooperation with the greek authorities, to release funds from the european solidarity fund and the european regional development fund to repair the damage, to carry out flood control projects and to compensate immediately the victims who were displaced and lost their belongings.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we are living through a human tragedy and we are already mourning the 23 deaths from a deadly storm of the once-in-50-year kind, which has caused incredible human suffering and immense destruction. in this hour of tragedy, the last thing we greeks and greek women need is micropolitics. what we need, commissioner, is practical european solidarity. not just words, but more action. it is a promise made a few days ago by president juncker to the greek prime minister, alexis tsipras, and now it must be put into practice. the greek government, the region and the greek society are doing their duty, with brave measures of rehabilitation and support for the affected, measures to alleviate human suffering and a gigantic flood control project that should have been done decades ago. but we also need more resources for natural disasters from europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. when a people suffers and experiences such tragedies as italy and portugal recently, and the czech republic and germany in the past, it wants european solidarity not just in words but also in visible form, with material and human resources. that's what we expect from you.
mr. president, 23 human souls are missing, and there are questions about any immigrants who were never recorded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. all of this is the result of the long-standing policy of the present and previous governments, regional and local authorities and the european union. the greek government does not compensate the victims for 100% of the damage and is provoking them even with loans, new loans, setting up development hospitals at the scene of the crime. the european union does not provide any compensation for the affected working-class households, but only for the business groups and those who fund the reconstruction of the destroyed ones, by draining the solidarity fund of large construction companies. the commission has also been working on the question of the use of the water in the river basin for the past few years. compensation for the victims of the tragedy should be paid in full, and all the european union's intangible limits and restrictions, which mrs crețu confirmed today to be fully in force, should be removed. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the commission is also proposing that the council, acting on a proposal from the european parliament, should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
mr president, commissioner, may i add my voice to those of my colleagues in expressing solidarity with those affected by the devastating floods. while we are still mourning the dead, it is not the time to assign responsibilities; but this time will come. as you know, the solidarity fund is activated when the damage exceeds 1.5% of the gdp of the affected region. we ask that countries in financial crisis and in a memorandum of cooperation not be subject to this 1.5%. last thursday the commission unveiled its plans to set up a direct response force based on operational common technical means such as firefighting planes, common hospitals, etc. the most important thing is not the technical infrastructure. the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the member states submit their natural disaster response plans to the commission so that any gaps can be identified and corrected. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. the allocation of funds from the solidarity fund is necessary, but it comes after the disaster. but it needs prevention. the european union must provide security for the european citizen, regardless of the dysfunctions and distortions of national mechanisms. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
mr president, the tragedy that has struck western attica, leaving behind 23 dead so far and hundreds of families homeless, is due partly to man's destructive intervention in nature, but mainly to criminal negligence and mismanagement by political leadership over time. climate change and fires are difficult to control and do not depend solely on the actions of one country or one government. however, the existence of illegal landfills, the dense, arbitrary and unplanned construction, the absence of flood control projects and the poor planning for dealing with such disasters have a strong hold on the political ethos of the last 40 years. left, right and centrist politicians, instead of dealing with the good of greece, have been and continue to be concerned with their own interests and the appropriation of power. the results are seen today; destruction, death, memoranda, alteration of the social fabric and moral decline. the immediate solution: immediate aid to the people of west attica affected by the theomentum. the essential solution: the immediate removal of incompetent and selfish politicians from the country's government.
mr president, commissioner, i come from the west atlantic. i just landed in brussels. the president of the new democracy, mr kyriakos mitsotakis, went there for the second time. what we saw is beyond description; houses in mud, people who have lost relatives and friends, destroyed infrastructure, inaccessible roads; not even clean water. it's not time to focus on responsibilities, it's time to decide what to do. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. i would like to say that i propose, as mr van nistelrooij has opened the debate and mr kirkos has continued, that the regulation on the solidarity fund be revised. we ask the commission to be more flexible in the circumstances and not to stick to the 1.5% of gnp per region rule. i propose that we explore all possibilities for additional funding for greece beyond the solidarity fund, as was done in greece. finally, i propose that we have procedures independent of the activation of the solidarity fund, that there be no national participation in flood control projects, in prevention projects and in rehabilitation projects in high-risk areas. greece needs tangible proof of our solidarity and it is essential that we show it today. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we thank you all very much for your valuable support. i too would like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families of the 23 people who lost their lives in the tragedy in attica. two weeks after this unprecedented natural disaster, it is time to immediately mobilise all the necessary european mechanisms to support the people affected, their families, the businesses, the homes and the vital infrastructure that was completely destroyed. at the same time, we need to combine emergency aid with preventive measures to bring relief to the local communities, municipalities and communities of attica who are still experiencing the worst of this nightmare. in this context, we welcome the commission's proposal to create a strengthened european system for civil protection and response to natural disasters, which will strengthen the union's and the member states' preventive mechanisms and readiness to respond to emergency needs. it is an expression of true solidarity. we are all vulnerable to natural disasters and only by working together and coordinating properly can we cope with them. europe is solidarity. it has recently supported italy, portugal and spain by mobilising the solidarity fund. ladies and gentlemen, winter is coming and the weather is unpredictable. my colleagues have made some very important suggestions. i am today calling for the speeding up of procedures for the immediate relief of our fellow greeks who have been so badly hit by the recent floods in attica.
mr president, greece is facing an unprecedented human tragedy with dozens of deaths as a result of the extreme weather events caused by climate change and the lack of adequate flood protection planning. europe must show its solidarity. the european union is not a political entity, but it is a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but it is a political entity. the regulation on the solidarity fund must therefore be revised. the limit of 1.5% of regional gdp is too inflexible, as is shown by the case of the attica region, which is a huge region with almost half the gdp of greece and therefore it is almost impossible or very difficult to mobilise the fund, and on the other hand it is a limit that is not expressed purely in economic terms, whereas the human factor should also be taken into account. it is inconceivable that we have dozens of dead and that the conditions for aid from the solidarity fund are not met. the regulation must therefore be revised to make it more flexible and more humane.
mr president, first of all, i would like to express my sorrow for the unjust loss of 23 of our fellow citizens and my sincere condolences to their families and loved ones. no one disputes the fact that in those days the weather was extreme and mother nature displayed her destructive abilities, especially since we humans do not respect her. if the streams had not been dammed and so many arbitrary buildings built, this disaster would not have happened. the criminal oligarchy of both the previous and the present governments has allowed this situation to exist. after the fires of the summer, the district did not carry out the required anti-corrosion works. after such a disaster, there has been no substantive move of support for the victims or relatives of the victims by the government; only words and hypocritical political confrontation. from the very beginning, our movement, golden dawn, has found itself with the meager means at our disposal on the side of the afflicted. the european union is not without responsibility, however, as it has not examined whether the funds approved by the european union for the construction of flood protection projects were properly used. of course, no one will accept responsibility. but the people know, and i assure you they will not forget. but the immediate priority is to provide relief to those affected by 100% of the property.
mr. president, i was there in mandera last saturday. i was shocked, the situation is a nightmare despite the enormous efforts of the residents, the volunteers arriving from every corner of athens and the state authorities. the water has torn down half the city. the nursery is a wreck. half the residents are homeless. it is true that immediate aid is needed for basic needs, but i ask the house to consider that we should adopt this new city, which should be built on the ruins of the old one, but without problems. can the juncker fund be used to rebuild the city? the best investment is an investment in people.
mr president, after some other european countries, it is unfortunately greece's turn to suffer the consequences of a great earthquake, a great flood which caused the death of 23 people in west attica and the destruction of all the infrastructure and facilities in the region. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i express my sincere condolences to their families and pray that god gives them the strength to face the problem that exists at this time. it is true that the european union has shown its solidarity, but this solidarity must be genuine, sincere and courageous and must not only repair the damage to the installations but above all compensate those who have lost their property.
in writing. greece is facing an unprecedented human tragedy mourning, already, 23 dead. the deadly floods in the western attica are the result of extreme weather events and the long-standing lack of adequate flood planning. the responsibility is longstanding and concerns the greek governments and the attica region, which have either allowed the damming of the streams or failed to carry out the necessary flood control works in time. the eu also has responsibilities, as it continues to ignore and allow projects that endanger the environment and human lives. the deadly floods have shown in the worst possible way that the existing european disaster management system has reached its limits. what the eu needs today is more resources, more flexibility and simplification of administrative procedures to reduce response delays, and to make its interventions for preventing, responding to and recovering from natural disasters more effective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it is inconceivable to mourn the deaths of dozens of people and not have the conditions for the solidarity fund to come to our aid. the 1.5% ceiling should be made more flexible. the commission must take immediate action to release funds from existing mechanisms to repair damage, carry out flood control projects and compensate those affected.
mr president, we are talking about the rescue of the banks when there is a huge scandal, because the banks were actually rescued with various packages and what they are doing is now attacking the borrowers themselves or the people who rescued them. for example, in greece we had at least three bank recapitalisations. the greek people, through the memoranda, paid dearly for the recapitalisation of the banks. and what are the banks doing now? they've started their aggressive auction policy today. the government with the help of the police and by force now enforces the electronic auctions and so the "crows" grab the property of the greeks. also note: banks are giving new loans to people who will participate in the auctions to buy the properties. he lends them up to 70% of the value of the property that goes up for auction, to create a new generation of red loans. these are the banks we're going to bail out?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this principle applies to the european union as well. at the present time, the european union does not face an overall threat to its security and integrity from a large and powerful enemy to justify an increase in its military capabilities. but it faces smaller-scale threats, such as international terrorism, organised crime and cyber attacks. to deal with these threats, we need a reasonable budget. the european union's military missions in the framework of peacekeeping and humanitarian operations must also be financially supported. in addition, funding should be provided to friendly third country governments to strengthen their security forces, equip them with non-lethal materials and train them. if the funding remains within the 100 million euro limit, it is estimated that this will not affect the european union's ability to provide financial support to countries in need, especially greece, which has been devastated by the memoranda. finally, if the mechanism does not involve the ngos known for their corruption, we could support the report.
i'm prepared to support this motion. i am convinced that this is another preventive tool that can reduce the risk of international tensions and, in the future, help to avoid another refugee crisis. it is precisely these preventive measures that stabilize the situation in some at-risk countries, especially in africa, that we should adopt. prevention is more important than dealing with the consequences. i was very pleased to hear from my colleagues and the commissioner that the money could not be used directly to buy weapons or to buy equipment that endangered life and health. the examples that could be addressed in this way, such as the issue of medical equipment in mali, confirm to me that this tool is the right one. i am ready to support this instrument tomorrow and i think it is good that we are increasing our activity in the world in this way, especially in countries where stability, peace and security are only theoretical.
the european union's budget, as you know, excludes activities aimed at financing the defence sector and military assets in third countries. with this report, the commission and the majority of our colleagues - as i see it here - are trying to make a bypass, to extend the mechanism for contributing to stability and peace to include the development of military capabilities, to use development aid for military purposes, to pay funds for the equipment and training of armed forces in third countries, to substantially strengthen the defence industry and, above all, to violate article 41 (2) of the treaty on european union, which prohibits the use of the eu budget for military expenditure, as i explained earlier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
mr president, first of all, much of what is being said today gives the impression that we live in a parallel universe which has nothing to do with reality. parliament fails to realise that the european union as an organisation has little or no weight in the field of international diplomacy and geopolitics. only two member states have any real international power: great britain and france. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. moreover, when almost no country, except greece, is fulfilling the commitment that they have all made within nato on defense spending, how exactly do they expect to support security, stability and peace in the world? here, of course, the question arises: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the commission's view on the use of ngos as a means of promotion shows a lack of understanding and, moreover, a strong sense of entanglement.
i want to join the debate that just took place here. the terrible humanitarian tragedy in this troubled country, yemen, cannot be ignored. unfortunately, we have been discussing this matter here repeatedly and the situation has worsened considerably in recent weeks. we should therefore at least make a major international effort to lift the blockade of airports and ports and at least try to ensure that humanitarian aid is brought into the country and that hundreds of people and children are not dying every day. i agree with what my colleagues have described here, the hypocrisy of both some eu countries and the us in supporting saudi arabia, which has a huge share in the tragedy in yemen. we should also address these issues more in the international arena, even if we try to ensure effective humanitarian aid at this point in time.
mr. president, this is the fourth speech i've given since 2015 on the humanitarian crisis in yemen. saudi arabia and iran are settling scores against the yemeni people. where a large-scale humanitarian crisis is unfolding, since, according to the un, out of a total population of 21 million, 19 million do not have access to drinking water, 7 million people do not have access to food and 320,000 children are malnourished, due to the air and naval blockade imposed by saudi arabia, which bombs refugee camps, schools, health facilities, even the medical center of doctors without borders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's arms exports are not disrupted by the threat of nuclear war. we must ban arms exports from the european union and other countries to saudi arabia. putting war criminals on the stand.
the case of yemen, mr president, is yet another proof of the european union's inability to play a significant and serious role in international political events. for three years, he was indifferent to the violations of the principles of international law by saudi arabia and simply watched the destruction of the country and the killing of civilians due to the clashes between saudi troops and the houthis, supported by iran. but how can it do otherwise when the united states and several european union countries are selling arms to saudi arabia? the united kingdom, france, germany, spain, even my country, greece, have been methodical in selling military equipment to saudi arabia. and suddenly, when the blocking of yemeni ports and airports by saudi arabia led to the mass deaths of children and weak people, the european union hypocritically decided to intervene. the european union must ban arms sales to saudi arabia and bring those who have committed war crimes before the international criminal court.
mr president, however much the war in yemen is attempted to be hushed up, it is neither alien nor indifferent to the european union, its governments and the capitalist system they defend. the intervention of saudi arabia in yemen and competition with iran are linked to the interests of the united states, the european union and other powerful capitalist states in controlling the poorest country in the arabian peninsula, which, among other things, has strategic shipping lanes and is the point of transit for the largest volume of goods. your tears for civilians, for small children, for the spread of cholera and the millions of malnourished are hypocritical. the sale of tanks by the greek government, for the sake of the geostrategic upgrading of the greek bourgeoisie, to a murderous state such as saudi arabia, is in fact an example of european union support for that country and must be cancelled. this is what the communist party of greece insists on.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, we have seen that multinationals do not wish to be taxed where they generate their profits. now multinationals do not want their cases to be tried in the countries in which they invest, and we have seen this with the demand for isds-type arrangements in ceta or ttip. the situation is simple: we have national jurisdictions and national courts. it is unlikely that there will be no protection of rights and investors in national jurisdictions. this is a position which really undermines the national courts. why do we need this international jurisdiction? in whose name will he make decisions? how will these decisions be made? what about the national courts? why should only investors have such facilities? i think it is a way for multinationals to get away with it and in the end they can sue states for not respecting their own obligations. just like they do with tax evasion.
i want to reiterate the problem i have raised several times during this election campaign. i call on the commission to finally start tackling the problem of the serious crime of smuggling tens of thousands of cats and dogs from the eastern part of the eu to the western part of the eu. the european commission underestimates the problem of this serious form of crime, which is almost as lucrative as drugs or prostitution, and because it is a cross-border form of crime, no state is able to solve these problems on its own. i have received a report that perhaps some department of the european commission is dealing with this issue. i would appeal to the commissioner not to underestimate the fact that tens of thousands of pets are exported from the visegrad countries to western europe in such terrible conditions every year. in addition to animal cruelty, there is a huge amount of untaxed money and other forms of illegal activity.
mr president, the syriza-anel government is using force, armed police and chemical weapons to continue the auctions in the courts of justice, and today the electronic auctions have started. the auctions that open the way for the "crows" to grab the homes of the impoverished greek people, and even for a billboard, and all this while there is the possibility of establishing a borrowers' rescue fund with 4.5 billion euros of the 25 billion euros left over from the third loan package. a borrower's bailout fund that even draghi accepts, throwing the ball at the greek government when he answered a question i asked him the other day. at the same time, the syriza-anel government refuses to grant preferential rights to borrowers so that they can buy their loans at the price of the first offer made by the 'ravens'. and the icing on the cake is the banks themselves, who now issue new home loans covering 75% of the value of all properties sold at auction. this means that the "crows" will take over the homes of the greeks, and even on loan.
mr president, today is the international day of solidarity with palestine and, 50 years after the 1967 war and the israeli occupation of the palestinian territories, the criminal israeli occupation continues. it is expanding with hundreds of settlements, the murder of hundreds of people, even children, and the imprisonment of thousands of palestinians. the wishes do not hide the support of israel by the united states, the european union and governments such as the greek syriza-anel government that strengthens political-military relations with israel and upgrades the american base in crete, which is a base against the peoples of the middle east and palestine. the communist party of greece, yesterday, by its intervention in the greek parliament, denounced the government for not implementing the decision of the parliament to recognize the palestinian state. it calls for an independent sovereign palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital, the withdrawal of the israeli army and settlers from the occupied territories, the demolition of the wall and the lifting of the blockade of the west bank and gaza, the release of all palestinians from prison and the return of all refugees to their homes.
the european union is clearly in an existential crisis because of the discontent of its citizens. brexit is the first withdrawal of a member state and if european policies do not change, others may follow. the union must take substantive action to improve people's lives. but instead we see cheap showmanship, such as the summit announcements of a pillar of social rights, which is actually a copy of the existing charter of fundamental rights of the union on social protection. we need action, not words. we need policies that support employment, education, health and social security at a pan-european level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. change policy before it's too late.
mr president, the recent financial crisis was dealt with by the familiar system; the same taxpayers have bailed out banks in greece and spain and italy and other countries. so, after the taxpayers bailed out the banks, now the banks are attacking the taxpayers, who are of course in a difficult financial situation, there are plenty of bad loans and now these people are losing their homes. this is the biggest political scandal we've seen in the last ten years. in greece, in fact, additional privileges have been granted to the banks. in the event of bankruptcy, the claims of banks now take precedence over the claims of employees, insurance funds and the public. in addition, mr katainen, i would like to say the following: now banks in greece will lend and cover 75% of the properties that are put up for auction. that is, the "crows" will now get 75% loan to buy the homes of the impoverished greeks and we will have a new generation of red loans.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i feel a little tight in my chest as i speak to you, because i am afraid that many people think that this is just another boring conversation for people with certain difficulties. i don't know how to say this out loud, but this is our lives. do you know how many of the things that are taken for granted and easy, are forbidden and impossible for us disabled people to happen? it is a matter of course that specific measures are taken, such as those we are calling for in the helga stevens report. so we say yes to disability as a part of every policy. yes to mandatory requirements and through public procurement. yes to greater protection for women, and equality policy must run counter to disability policy because women with disabilities are twice as much victims. yes to help access the labour market. the european disability card is a means of ensuring equal access to services throughout europe, and it is also a means of promoting culture. finally, i propose that disability benefits be excluded from the austerity measures and fiscal adjustment policies of the troika.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the handicapped are also victims of the system, whose situation is worsening as a result of the policies of the european union and governments, which aim to reduce extreme poverty and drastically reduce the special needs of the disabled. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody for more than two years, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the new term 'functional disability' is used as a catch-all term for the necessary benefits for active ageing and disabled people, i.e. work for as long as they can. it is also necessary to resist the exploitation of the needs of the disabled by private interests by invoking market accessibility, for a comprehensive and exclusive state system of protection of the disabled in order to meet all their needs.
mr president, one cannot but acknowledge the important steps which have been taken in the field of the protection of disabled people. the efforts to integrate these individuals into society are now much more systematic than in the past. so any new initiative to support people with real disabilities cannot but find me not just sympathetic, but supportive. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. as a parent of a child with down syndrome, i know the situation firsthand. at the special school where my son is studying, the tutors and staff have been unpaid for seven months, there is no heating and the materials for the laboratories are non-existent. the school transportation costs are paid by the parents, who are already deprived of them, because of their salaries, pensions and pensions. the same is true of most special schools in my country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. excluding the disabled and their families from the austerity policies in place, to demonstrate in practice that disabled people across europe have the same rights and the same care and support.
mr president, 3 december has been designated world day of persons with disabilities and i think that today's debate, and the adoption of mrs stevens' report on the european disability strategy, is the best way to show that we, as the european parliament, are supporting people with disabilities and, above all, that we are moving forward with the implementation of the un international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we have discussed many cases of people with disabilities in the committee on petitions and i think that the measures we are taking to strengthen solidarity, equality, accessibility, mobility and, of course, support for people with disabilities, as well as on remuneration and education and training issues, are crucial. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the disabled are not excluded from the social security system. all disability pensions and all social benefits for the disabled in greece are being curtailed. the disability movement is fighting hard to be able to support people with disabilities; he's fighting against the troika.
i supported this budget, and i am glad that there was a political agreement on the budget. i see some positives, too, like more money for erasmus+, more money for europol. i hope that this budget will contribute to improving the internal security of eu countries and help us to tackle migration issues.
i also supported this motion. i am convinced that the long-term fight against migration and geopolitical threats to europe can only be won, or perhaps reduced, by being active in the countries where these potential risks arise. whether it's potential hotbeds of migration or potential hotbeds of mere civil wars. our activities in third countries, especially in the immediate vicinity of europe, where these threats to citizens are greatest, must be. it is good that we have adopted today another tool to be active in countries from which geopolitical and security risks to europe may emerge in the future. so i supported the possibility of supporting military branches in third partner countries. it was emphasized here yesterday that this is not the purchase of weapons or tools that would immediately endanger life and health.
madam president, as i mentioned in my speech yesterday, there is a huge humanitarian crisis in yemen at the moment, and saudi arabia is responsible, which has imposed a naval blockade, has imposed an air blockade on yemen, is bombing innocent people and we have civilian casualties. the european union has a huge responsibility. we must stop selling military equipment to saudi arabia. this applies to all the countries of the european union. the same applies to greece, which, in a shameful agreement, proceeds to sell war material to saudi arabia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am not sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i supported this report because i think it is important that we want to improve the living standards of people with disabilities. i am very pleased that european policy is very consistent in this area, alongside the protection of human rights, alongside our other projects in the field of the environment. i am glad that the protection of disabled people, but above all their full life, is an important european political issue. i would be very happy if some of the good parts of this report, specific things about how to improve access for these people to education, to work, to better access to transport, if these things don't just stay on paper and if a lot of this can be put into practice. it will probably be up to specific national policies, specific countries, to implement and put into practice at least some of the things that are in this report.
madam president, the european strategy for the disabled must be put into effect immediately, because only then will it be possible to provide real support for people with disabilities in health, social protection and education. i think the initiatives taken are important. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the disabled are not excluded from the social security system. they have reduced benefits for the disabled themselves and they have reduced benefits for the disabled. the disability movement in greece is protesting. in fact, in august he sent a letter of protest to the prime minister, mr tsipras, but - with the procedures that will start in 2018 - in practice, unfortunately, any benefits that exist for people with special needs will be reduced. shame on you!
mr president, in the five-year period 2005-2010, 2.4 million farms disappeared, and the economic crisis that followed created even greater problems. the farmers of the european south, who produce 50% of the agricultural product of the union, have literally been brought to their knees by austerity and violent budgetary adjustment. the russian embargo has created a deadlock in the union's rural world, which is why drastic measures to support young farmers and producer groups are needed. the support must come from both the european union and the member states. in greece, farmers have been impoverished by the memorandum tax surplus in their pockets, as well as by the confiscations of community subsidies. mrs crețu, i received with interest the written reply from mr hogan that for 2017 €9.3 million is granted exceptionally to greek peach and nectarine farmers who have been harmed by the russian embargo. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
mr president, the union's fishing fleet contributes to employment and, of course, to the supply of fish to the eu market. in many member states, coastal and island regions are experiencing significant recession, population decline and population flight. the sustainable management of external fishing fleets can certainly ensure sustainable fisheries, provided, of course, that the conditions of the law are met. a flexible licensing system is therefore needed and the flag member state should play a key role in this. at the same time, however, third country fishing vessels should respect the rules. this is particularly true of turkish fishing vessels, which are illegally entering greek territorial waters, and this with the protection of the turkish coastguard. they are illegally fishing alongside territorial waters in the dodecanese, the ionian and the north aegean. they're literally committing piracy.
mr president, about 1.3% of global carbon dioxide emissions come from international aviation. so this figure, 1.3 percent of global emissions -- that's the exact figure -- is expected to increase, as aviation is expected to grow in the coming years. this increase in emissions could reach up to 700% by 2050. it is therefore clear that the measures taken by the general assembly of the international civil aviation organization have led, as we all know, to the corsia system for the compensation and reduction of carbon emissions in international aviation. the question is whether this system can be applied regionally, without the other powers, such as the united states and china, complying. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the emissions trading system is trying to balance the carbon and other gases against the dizzying air transport system. but the fragmentation of european airspace and the commercialisation of emissions through auctioning of rights are not exactly in line with the protection of the environment as a primary concern of the union, given that the environment knows no borders. in addition, when airlines that do not meet the stabilisation targets receive compensation certificates, this indirectly undermines the union's basic principle for the environment: 'the polluter pays'. the debate and the resolution on environmental policies are an opportunity for cross-party consultation and agreement. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one. the environment is not to be politicized. it concerns all of us, and especially the generations to come.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, european citizenship gives rise to special rights such as the right of referral to the european parliament or the right to complain to the european ombudsman. at the same time, the rights of citizens of the union are protected by the eu charter of fundamental rights. but austerity, forced budgetary adjustment, the reduction of wages and pensions, the dismantling of the social state have led to the reduction and violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens of the union which are supposed to be protected by the charter. we have a violation of the right to a decent life, the right to health, the right to property, and this is happening with decisions of the troika, the eurogroup and the european central bank, three institutions that operate in an opaque way, that are not elected. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i was born and raised in bulgaria, on the border with romania. i worked in greece. i was elected to the european parliament by greece. i lived in france for years, where i received the necessary treatment by transferring my insurance rights with the european s1 document. i am a living example of european citizenship, but how many of us are taking advantage of it? there's not many of them. there are huge disparities between countries in the knowledge and application of the rights of citizenship. the council, instead of helping, is hindering. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet its obligations under the treaty. it should come as no surprise, then, that only 42% of europeans voted in the 2014 european elections.
the report, mr president, denies reality and proposes to change the existing legal order on matters which are de jure national competence. some of these are feudal acts, such as the intervention in family law, the introduction of a european identity card and the most obvious attempt to legitimize a european citizenship over a national one. the federalists do not like straightforward honesty, stating that the aim is to dismantle the nation states and create the united states of europe. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. the so-called european citizenship concerns the conferral of certain rights and is a consequence of the nationality of a member state, which expresses the legal commitment of the relationship between state and citizen and links the individual to the nation to which he belongs and with which he shares common values and culture, and falls within the exclusive jurisdiction of the member states.
mr president, the granting of citizenship by a state to its own citizens is a very serious matter and must be considered as such. citizenship cannot be granted indiscriminately, without certain conditions being met and without considering certain criteria. first of all, a person who is a national of a state must feel that he is a member of that state. he must respect, love the state and be ready to defend it when it is in danger. if he meets these conditions, he can be granted citizenship, and the state must protect him, whoever he is, even if he belongs to an ethnic minority that may live in that state. the protection afforded by the state to its citizens is a matter for the national state and cannot be placed within a more general framework of granting european citizenship. the conditions must be met and on this basis the cooperating states will succeed in ensuring that their citizens have the european acquis.
mr president, kazakhstan has important economic relations with the european union. there is cooperation in the fields of natural gas, oil, metals, uranium processing and chemicals. there is of course the question of the use of nuclear energy and the question remains whether the radiation which has recently been detected actually originates from kazakhstan. we are waiting for an answer on this. in addition, european multinationals are particularly active economically in the region. but the agreement does not provide adequate protection for products with geographical indications. this is very important for greece and we want an assurance that the products and the geographical indications of the products are indeed protected. of course, on the political side we have violations of human rights, the rule of law, pluralism and democracy and persecution of christians. these are important questions to which you will have to answer, mrs jourová.
mr president, it is a fact that kazakhstan is an important trading partner of the european union, which is very active in this region in various ways, in trade and other activities. this is one of the reasons why the european union wants to strengthen bilateral relations with kazakhstan. from a strategic point of view, kazakhstan, because of its location in the soft underbelly of russia, has even greater strategic value and is an important factor for stability and peace in the sensitive region of central asia, where the interests of many great powers are in conflict. but there are also some factors which must be taken seriously, given that kazakhstan is a country which violates human rights and the rule of law, and at the same time products coming from there can, if they are not careful, be a source and a condition of unfair competition with the corresponding european products.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their interventions. i greatly appreciate the discussion and your interest in the eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement, both during the negotiations and now for the consent, as reflected also in the accompanying resolution. the debate has shown strong support for the strengthening of eu—kazakhstan relations through this agreement. this new agreement gives us the opportunity to consolidate our achievements and advance on a range of issues relevant to the challenges of our time. we hope for the continuation of your support in the implementation of the agreement and in strengthening our bilateral relations with kazakhstan. i am looking forward to your vote tomorrow.
mr president, we have a very important opportunity before us, an opportunity which in numbers translates into five hundred million potential consumers. the european union is faced with the challenge of defining that framework so that in fact it is the trade of digitisation that will move forward at the fastest pace. the first and foremost thing to consider is the encouragement of the digitisation of small and mediumsized enterprises. the speed is not the same in all member states. the speed is not the same in all small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, in the field of national regulations, the encouragement of the training of young people so that they can fill these new jobs. finally, it is essential that the definition of free online spaces be done by the institutional players, with the european union playing a leading role, and not left to private companies.
mr president, the challenges facing the european economy today call for a comprehensive strategy for digital trade, because only in this way will the competitiveness of the european economy itself, and in particular of the economies of the countries of the european south, be strengthened. this shows that european competitiveness will not be based on the chineseisation of wages but can only be based on the digital economy and, above all, on education and training. in this way, many new jobs can be created, small and mediumsized enterprises can be supported and we can thus have an effective intervention in what we call digital trade, at a time when we are addressing at least five hundred million consumers in the european union and many more around the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the system is set up in such a way that it is technologically neutral, proportionate and gives new entrants access to the market.
mr president, the attack on the right to strike is a strategic choice made by capital, the european union and its governments. european court of justice judgments, substantive undermining laws and the practice of repealing it in countries like belgium, britain, italy are laying the groundwork. the syriza-anel government, in the same way, with innumerable judicial decisions of illegal and abusive strikes, political mobilizations, beatings and arrests of strikers, supports and strengthens the employers' terrorism, the anti-workers' attack that is brewing, and with the support of the working fathers. in order to satisfy the demands of capital it shows its fear of any organized mobilization of the workers. the workers, their class movement, are defending their right to fight for their livelihood and their needs. on december 14th we defend the right to strike by striking, with the support and solidarity of dozens of class unions from europe and around the world. the strike on the right to strike will not pass.
mr president, the turkish president, erdogan, continues his provocations against my country, greece. so, without respecting the rules of diplomacy or hospitality, during his recent visit to greece, even inside the presidential palace, he spoke of a revision of the treaty of lausanne, of grey areas in the aegean and of an alleged turkish minority in our thrace, in thrace, where he was particularly provocative during his visit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's airspace is not encroached upon by the turkish airspace. in my repeated speeches in the european parliament i have sounded the alarm about the dangerous tactics of the erdoğan government and about the impunity regime governing eu-turkey relations. the greek people, however, cannot tolerate the provocations of turkey and erdogan and once again responds to them: "molons laves".
mr president, the debate on tax havens, which is supposed to brand certain 'immoral' capitalists, is an excuse for the system which guarantees them the funds stored there, which do not exceed 5% of total deposits. it's getting to be a joke. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european council has bargained away tax havens for high-profile cases such as the cayman islands. the resolution under discussion insists and urges a distinction between illegal and legal tax evasion and tax exemption tactics, perpetuating the tax privileges of capital, paid by the people with a wild tax raid, as with the increase in vat on the greek islands, which are being tested. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the free movement of capital are applied in the member states. can you do that ? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial system is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the acquis. this, whatever you do, it doesn't get better. it just flips over.
mr president, in recent years there have been many occasions when the debate in this house has been on the publication of documents revealing the ownership of certain offshore companies. it should be noted that unfortunately almost always these lists include the names of politicians, often very well known. i suspect that, as in previous occasions, there will be a variety of views, but in the end we will have no real result, or perhaps the best case scenario is that some scapegoats are prosecuted and the rest of us continue to exploit the loopholes in the international financial system. and they will continue to exploit them, because these very offshore companies are the backbone of this system. the international corporatism, which we are steadily moving towards, could not survive without offshore companies, and political leaders are now content to be mere agents of the affairs of the big multinational companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the council is the one who is dealing with the problem of tax evasion and tax avoidance in the european union. there's the key. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so we have aggressive tax planning, which is essentially the second nature of the european union, because the european union itself wants there to be grey areas. it is the commission's intention to create this unfair tax competition between member states. so i think that's the key. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the following guidelines: multinationals and anyone who makes a profit in the european union should be taxed in the member state concerned. where profits come from, there they should be taxed. if this basic principle is passed, then we are off to a very good start.
madam president, legalization of illegal activities is a practice that is old but has been on the rise in recent years. the bad thing about this case is that the corruption that has emerged from both the paradise papers and the panama papers and other scandals of the past has been exposed by journalists and not by the relevant state authorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to combat fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but none of this is going to happen, because the politicians who are supposed to make the right decisions are funded either by multinational corporations or by other shadowy funders with dark purposes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the principle of unanimity is respected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this into account. this will destroy the unity of europe.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, the conclusion of the trilogues on efsi showed that all parties had strong incentives to improve it by correcting its inefficiencies, namely the concentration of the funds to economies and sectors that needed it less. so i want to congratulate the success of the co-rapporteurs, udo bullmann and josé manuel fernandes, for their efforts to achieve significant improvements. on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), our main concerns regarding the expansion of eligible sectors in the digital economy, the funding of smes, extension of smes window, the blending of efsi and esif funds, and environmental considerations were properly addressed this time. however, one point i would like to highlight, which is important for the itre committee and which remains unresolved despite our efforts to emphasise it, is that the requirement of delinking the efsi guarantee from the member states’ macroeconomic requirements under the stability and growth pact. there is also a straightforward message: reductionary fiscal policy kills the demand for lendable funds, and the efsi is a supply side instrument. now we know that supply cannot create its own demand, so it sends a clear message to policymakers regarding the limits of supply side financial instruments as long as the demand is weak. no significant improvements will reach the real economy. our new challenge should be exactly this: how will an efsi3 programme in the future manage to boost demand and produce ... (the president cut off the speaker.)
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is a very important one. but we can do better. we can do better if we increase the additionality of resources, that is, if we manage in various investment efforts to leverage resources from the junker plan, the community budget (espa in greece) and the private sector. the efsi should be able to deliver its benefits to small and medium-sized enterprises. you said a moment ago that in greece we are champions. in fact, with 1.6 billion euros, we will leverage 5.5 billion euros. but this is all about very large and very large businesses . the challenge is how to give smaller companies access to these resources, and we can do this with the strong presence of the european investment advisory hub to accelerate the maturation and smooth digitisation of potential investors. we can also do it with the national investment banks, which according to the third assessment, is not clearly described specifically for greece and the added value that will... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the life and state of the european fund for strategic investments in greece has provoked strong reactions, and this is because, instead of contributing to the increase of investment, instead of contributing to additionality, it has become a tool for financing the seizure of greek public assets by the multinationals of their lenders, and especially germany. in the opening decision, the commission expressed doubts as to whether the aid granted to fraport was compatible with the internal market. cosmote, the subsidiary of the state-owned deutsche telekom, was also financed under the european fund for strategic investments with eur 450 million. the memoranda therefore impose the privatisation of greek companies, which are being looted by german state-owned companies with loan funds from the european fund for strategic investments. shame on you!
mr president, afghanistan has been in a state of constant warfare for 17 years since the united states invaded. so it's turned into a refugee bomb. already 1.5 million afghan refugees are in pakistan, 450,000 are in iran, more than 20% of the people who flooded greece in 2015 and in recent months are from afghanistan. the european union must therefore strengthen political and economic stability in afghanistan, but the nato countries which are conducting military operations there must take responsibility for hosting the refugees. that is true of china and russia and iran. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used to support the development of the region. but mr tusk is turning a blind eye and is now calling for the abolition of the mandatory quotas for the distribution of refugees among the member states of the union. this is unacceptable.
mr president, the war in afghanistan is a clear defeat for the united states and its allies with great human and financial losses. it is a field of strategic science (and certainly not directly concerned by the european parliament) to look for the reasons why three superpowers, the british empire, the soviet union and the usa, were defeated in afghanistan. recently, president trump announced the increase of the military presence in the country. we must therefore ask ourselves why this decision was taken, at a time when the losses of the allied forces are daily enormous, while the bloodbath of innocent afghan civilians and, above all, the mass illegal immigration to europe continues. the reasons are obvious: the westerners do not wish to leave the field open to the russians and the chinese. in a country rich in iron, cobalt, copper, hydrocarbons and mainly lithium, but also a huge centre for the production of opium and other drugs. in this international power play europe should have a clear leadership in decision-making, planning and executing the required actions at political, strategic, operational level, for the benefit of the member states and european citizens.
mr president, afghanistan is one of the most insecure countries in the world. for the 17th consecutive year, military conflict has continued in this country of great strategic value, where the interests of many different powers are at odds. the government of the country does not exercise effective control. the taliban and isis are strong and threaten to take over. moreover, there is no possibility of strategically addressing this risk. recently nato announced the increase of the force it maintains there by 3,000 soldiers. the whole situation is leading to a bloodbath in afghanistan. mostly civilians are being killed and the situation is out of control. for these very reasons, and because this will continue, it is not wise for the european union to intervene at this time. it is not enough to say that the european union is not prepared to take action, but it is also necessary to say that the european union is not prepared to take action.
mr president, this is the sixth speech i have given here in the european parliament on the subject of the rohingya refugees. already since may 2015, the european parliament has been debating about once every six months about this tragic situation faced by the rohingya. this shows that the european union is talking too much and taking too little action. the situation of the rohingya is now dramatic. in burma, buddhists are persecuting muslims. in other places, muslims slaughter christians. religious conflicts are a pretext; the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. in this case, the ethnic cleansing of the rohingya is being done for economic reasons, in order to take over their land where the rohingya communities used to live, because there is interest from multinationals to mine there. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the baltic sea. so measures must be taken. sanctions must be imposed on the military regime. the perpetrators must be referred to the hague criminal court for sanctions.
mr president, of the countries of the european union, only greece and cyprus face a real threat to their security from turkey, which directly and officially raises claims against its territorial integrity. this situation forces them to spend large sums of money on their defense. the other countries of the european union face dangers and threats from international terrorism, organised crime and cyber attacks. but these threats are not strong enough to oblige them to increase their defence spending. moreover, there is no powerful enemy that threatens europe. the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to achieve their goals. so there is no reason for the european union to increase its defence capabilities. if that happens, it will serve other purposes, such as interference in the internal affairs of third countries, arms sales and funding of corrupt regimes. finally, i would like to stress that the principle of unanimity must not be circumvented merely to overcome the reactions of some countries which insist that the european union should not depart from its principles and values.
mr president, however much you may fall into the words 'peace' and 'defence', the european union cannot hide. you cannot hide the fact that you are intensifying preparations for new imperialist wars and attacks against the peoples. a dangerous multi-layered euromilitia union network is being built complementary to nato and autonomously, with a separate fund, financing mechanisms and performance evaluation of governments in skinning peoples and strengthening military equipment, with an upgraded, structured military alliance of states within pesco and its own headquarters, with flexible units for direct military action where they can deploy the profits of european groups in their intended competition with the us, china, russia as well as within the european union. in this soil the boiling foci multiply; the european union has been a major player in the middle east, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the middle east. the greek government, by giving bases, land and water to imperialist projects, is seeking increased profits for greek groups, while increasing the risks for the people. the european union and nato must not be allowed to rest. people's struggle, vigilance, so that people's blood is not spilled for imperialist interests.
madam president, first of all, the common security and defence policy which is being promoted lacks the necessary democratic legitimacy and does not express the popular will of the citizens of the member states. those who promote and support it act as self-appointed proxies, lack popular consent and circumvent the basic principles governing the law of the treaties, such as the principles of equality of peoples, sovereign equality and independence of states and non-interference in their internal affairs. but i would like to stress two basic conditions governing military alliances and organizations. firstly, there is no reference in the texts to the union's position in the event of a hot-spot incident or crisis/conflict between member states. secondly, whether the union will preserve the territorial integrity and cohesion of a member state in the event of an attack by a third country. if these two basic questions are not answered, i see no reason why the member states should agree to participate and pursue common european defence and security.
in writing. the european union is supposed to be founded on the value of solidarity between its member states. the common foreign and security policy was supposedly established to protect all the countries of the union. the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism, and it is not surprising that the european union has been a major player in the fight against terrorism. in particular, mr erdogan is now openly questioning the treaty of lausanne, he is questioning greece's sovereign rights in the aegean islands, turkish fighter jets are violating greek airspace every day and the greek people see no satisfactory response from the european union to all this. the european union remains inactive. he doesn't really grit his teeth at the sultan. it does not tell him that he must pull together and that his challenges to greece are not going away. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is a given that greece has the capacity to confront turkey, but it also needs the support of the european union. the community's so-called solidarity must be demonstrated in practice!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the 2015 agreement and the lifting of sanctions over iran's nuclear program brought iran out of the isolation imposed on it by the west. iran, in turn, must constructively use this opportunity to contribute its role to world peace and stability. in this context, its involvement in the resolution of various conflicts and political crises, particularly in the middle east, is necessary and is constantly being assessed. in the two years since the implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action on iran's nuclear programme, the international atomic energy agency has certified nine times that all the commitments envisaged have been met. it is precisely this perfect implementation of the agreement that president trump is flagrantly flouting and by his decision is setting another whip in the middle east and the rest of the world. ladies and gentlemen, history shows that the united states does not hesitate to jeopardize the peace and security of an entire region, as long as it serves specific political and economic interests. the president of the united states now sees himself as a constant threat to world security and peace. the eu has a duty to continue to support the agreement at all levels and by all means possible. it is clear that europe must have an independent foreign policy if it is to counter the destructive foreign policy of the united states. personally, i'm not very optimistic, but i hope, because it's a matter of world peace, that you'll refute me.
mr president, the attitude of the west, and in particular of the united states of america, to the nuclear agreement with iran is simply unacceptable. two years ago all the contracting parties signed an agreement after long negotiations. the european union is not only a member of the european union but also a member of the european union. the united states, on the other hand, having been the first to violate the agreement, has recently imposed new sanctions against him. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the new agreement with the united states, which is a member of the wto. this shows how much the signature of the western governments is worth. if some were not satisfied with the agreement, they should not have signed it in the first place. but once they have signed it, i take it for granted that they must respect it. iran has shown no sign of any further pursuit of nuclear weapons or of any threat to the west. i therefore believe that any new restrictions are simply intended to serve the expansionist plans of the united states and its allies. let us not forget that the countries that are opposed to this agreement already have nuclear weapons, while the united states is the only country that has used atomic bombs in wartime, destroying two cities with their inhabitants.
mr president, the decision of the united states to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel has lit another fire in the flammable middle east, with palestinians dead, wounded and the mass condemnation of the peoples of the region. the united states seeks to legitimize the israeli occupation, the continuing crime against the palestinian people with murder, imprisonment, walls, settlements. this is a development linked to more general imperialist plans in the region to change borders, with the aim of controlling energy sources and their transport routes. the same competition dictates the differentiation of germany, britain and france. the european union has a great responsibility, mrs mogherini, to improve its relations with israel, identifying the perpetrator with the victim and turning the just struggle of the palestinian people into terrorism. the greek government, which is portraying the aggressive policy of the united states as diabolically good, is upgrading its relations with israel by not recognizing the palestinian state. solidarity with the palestinian people in their struggle for immediate recognition of an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital in the 1967 borders!
madam president, madam mogherini, i have greek citizenship but i also have palestinian citizenship. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force. this friend of yours is known worldwide to be responsible for the situation depicted in this map, which shows palestine - from here it started - here in dots with villages surrounded and destroyed. this is really a picture of the occupation of a state, who is the conqueror and who is the conquered. this map is a hubris for the global community. do you really believe, mrs mogherini, that there can be a two-state solution? did you tell all this to mr. netanyahu yesterday when you met him, your friend mr. netanyahu? did you really tell him that he should be persona non grata for europe, precisely because of the crimes he has committed? this is it, mrs. mogherini!
madam president, the disintegration of libya is the result of the intervention of foreign forces in that country, a situation exacerbated by the support of turkey and qatar for the libyan jihadists. the chaos in libya has led to a mass exodus of huge waves of refugees to the european union. the european union must put in place a system for the return of illegal immigrants, but at the same time ensure humane conditions for all the migrants in libya, where they are treated as virtual slaves. at the same time, mr avramopoulos, italy and greece must continue to relocate to other countries of the european union. we are particularly concerned about the policy of mr tusk, who has more or less said that he wants the system of compulsory quotas for the distribution of refugees to the other member states of the european union to be abolished. it is something the greek people are not going to tolerate.
madam president, mr andriukaitis, the european union is really intervening in various parts of the world, claiming that it wants to protect human rights. but it does not look at what is happening here in our neighbourhood, what is happening in albania, how the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus are being violated there. where the albanian authorities in himara are demolishing the homes of the greeks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. don't we see these issues? how will the european union intervene in this matter to bring the albanian authorities together, to respect the rights of the greek national minority of northern epirus, their property rights, their religious rights? the european union must not turn a blind eye to these violations of the rights of the greek national minority in northern epirus.
the european council can no longer turn a blind eye to the problem of immigration and turn greece and italy into soul-storage centres. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and we must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. in addition, dublin iii should be abolished and replaced by arrangements which enhance solidarity and do not turn the first-mover states into scapegoats. the structure and functioning of economic and monetary union must change, since it has filled the eurozone with armies of poor and unemployed people. the european central bank must be transformed into a lender of last resort. the european system of banks should be decentralised and national monetary sovereignty restored, with the right for the national central banks to mint up to their percentage share in the ecb's share capital. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the community, such as the introduction of a new system of social security for migrant workers.
madam president, the tusk document on refugees is unacceptable, provocative and anti-european. the compulsory quotas are not divisive, but the document itself is. mr maasikas, i would like you to inform the president-in-office of the council, who is not here today, that when i read this text i thought it was signed by mr katzinski or mr orban, not the president-in-office. the commission, with the support of parliament, has taken european governments to the european court of justice for refusing to fulfil their obligations, and it is a disgrace for europe that the president of the council is stabbing the commission in the back. the european parliament and the commission, mr maasikas, expect both the council and the summit to do the right thing, because greece and italy cannot bear the burden of the refugee crisis alone with a lack of european solidarity.
madam president, the completion of the first phase of the brexit negotiations has confirmed a great truth: when the buffaloes fight in the swamp, the frogs pay the price. the frogs in this case are the nationals of the countries of the european union who have studied, live with their families and work in the united kingdom. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the disabled are respected. we have heard mr barnier say today that these rights will be guaranteed for life, but no one can guarantee that they will be. we are concerned that the role of the european court of justice has been reduced and for that very reason we cannot know whether a future government will abolish or restrict these rights. the european union must therefore support the rights of these people in an unquestionable way. it would be tragic if they were to go to the point of asking for permission to even stay in their homes.
mr president, the only certain conclusion of the negotiations concerning the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the union and the framework for the future relations between the two is that international politics is being pursued cynically and dispassionately, over and above the real needs and challenges of citizens, but instead promoting the selfish interest of certain states. in the budgetary field in particular, germany, austria, the netherlands, sweden and denmark are well aware of this, as they reduce their net contributions by ad hoc agreements beyond those in force. the crossroads is obvious: the union will either continue its present punitive approach, based on arbitrary and unilateral criteria, until it has been completely eradicated, or it will apply the conditions of proportional representation of the member states in the framework of cooperation and solidarity. i am opposed to the motion for a resolution because it puts the union's problems and existential concerns in the choices the united kingdom is called upon to make, while ignoring the paradox of the undermining of the sovereign decisions of a democratically elected government by appointed technocrats.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is not only a member of the schengen area, but also a member of the european union. i am particularly pleased because i was elected in greece, but i was born and raised on the bulgarian-romanian border. i believe in the schengen. but do the commission and the council believe it? because for two years they've been turning it into trash. how did you do that ? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's external borders are not blocked by the threat of terrorism. the greeks are asking themselves: why, when they arrive in germany, france or belgium, are they subjected to such humiliating checks? is it possible that greece has been excluded from schengen and we don't know about it? and one more thing: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but are they sincere? the commission's proposals for changes to schengen, which extend border controls for up to two years, are a kind of 'goodbye' to the states which have refused solidarity in the refugee tragedy, and which may thus trap thousands of refugees in greece and italy. i would ask the commission, the council and all of you, ladies and gentlemen: is that what europe wants? is this the schengen?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. schengen means people bound hand and foot, since only capital and cheap workers are free to move, without rights for the interests of business groups. this is your european asset, now extended to the balkans. the tusk letter is not a disagreement with the european union, but a confirmation of its policy, the eu-turkey agreement, which traps refugees and migrants in miserable moria-style conditions in greece and italy. the greek government bears a huge responsibility, which does not guarantee the lives of refugees, but on the other hand provides guarantees for fast-track deportations back to the hell of the imperialist war, which it and its allies are rewarding and facilitating. solidarity of the peoples, to get refugees to their destinations, against imperialist wars, european union, nato, governments and exploitation!
mr president, the accession of bulgaria, romania and croatia to the schengen area has been unduly delayed. once they wish to join and meet the criteria, only prejudice has kept them out for a few years. the problem is not the number of countries that will be part of schengen but the provisions of the treaty itself and, above all, the way they are implemented. as we speak, many european countries have temporarily suspended the application of schengen to flights from greece, on the pretext of the possible entry of illegal immigrants. it was the german government, led by chancellor merkel, that first called for illegal immigrants to come to europe, but now, after the political damage suffered by its party, it has decided to make this small-scale political move, which is mainly aimed at its own internal audience. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are proposing the complete reintroduction of all border controls, without this meaning that the passage of people is restricted; it will simply be controlled. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens.
mr president, mr avramopoulos, while bulgaria, romania and croatia are joining schengen, greek air passengers from greece are being illegally checked at german and belgian airports. the german quarantine against greek passengers was denounced in this chamber on 15 november. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's opinion is not distorted by the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. in addition, here at strasbourg airport, all schengen passengers, including meps, are subject to passport checks on arrival and departure. so while germany, belgium, france and austria do not apply schengen, greece does, and our country has become a magnet for thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants. in view of all this, greece must leave schengen immediately. i've said it before in this room.
the european union is outdoing itself in making black white with the so-called pillar of social rights. it calls work flexible employment, the constant drift from parttime work to unemployment, a stepping stone to permanent, stable work with rights. it calls gender equality the levelling down of men and women (see: raising the retirement age for women), labour security the dissolution of collective agreements, rights and hours with individual business contracts, linking wages to profits, increasingly cheaper workers for competitiveness, active ageing, pensions as a personal matter, while social security is being dismantled in favour of private insurance companies and blackmailing for work to death. your social partner and your right hand, the employers' union is a pillar not of rights but of sharing poverty and social barbarity. you can't do without it, the workers can't do with it. the syriza-anel government, which is very competent in its dirty work, applauds this and, fearing reaction, is planning to abolish the right to strike as elsewhere. it won't get through to her, and it won't get through to you. the working class will win and live.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. for two years now, 99% of the european citizens have been waiting for him. still setting up his app don't see. in order to be able to implement the pillar and impose sanctions where it is violated, legislation is needed, both in the european union and in the member states. how can that be? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i still ask you: how is article 9 of the treaty applied? how are european policies monitored in terms of their social impact? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but this cannot be achieved as long as the eu leadership implements policies of austerity and forced fiscal adjustment that are dismantling the welfare state, slashing wages and pensions and filling europe with millions of poor and unemployed soldiers. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere speculative instrument, but must be able to take a decisive step towards the creation of a new europe. the social europe requires the introduction of a european minimum wage, a european unemployment income, an unemployment allowance and a european minimum income. the european union's leaders must therefore abandon their double-speak and crocodile tears in implementing the social pillar, because they have enormous political responsibilities for the 123 million european citizens who are threatened with poverty and social exclusion.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
in writing. the process of building a european pillar of social rights is proceeding at a characteristically slow pace. at the same time, tens of millions of people across the european union are in daily distress about their jobs, their health, their social security and their living conditions in general. the long list of wishes we voted for here in the european parliament in january this year is not enough, nor is the joint declaration of the commission, council and parliament in november, which merely repeats the social rights provisions of the charter of fundamental rights of the union. we need concrete policies to improve people's real living conditions, backed up by financial instruments from the union budget. such actions could be the granting of a european unemployment benefit, with an emphasis on cases not covered by national states, such as hidden unemployment among the self-employed, the strengthening of national health systems to cover the cost of medication in particularly serious diseases with high costs, the subsidizing of students participating in erasmus programmes to meet the cost of living, and many others. we need action, not words.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the 2030 agenda and the eurostat report on 'monitoring progress towards the sustainable development goals in the eu' (2017/3006 ((rsp)).
mr president, the european union is working to achieve the 17 sustainable development goals and to eradicate poverty throughout the world, while even now the troika is imposing on the greek people harsh memorandum policies, policies which have cut pensions by at least 40%, policies which have cut wages, policies which have led 40% of the greek people to live below the poverty line. the european union must therefore put an end to bilingualism. the indicators show that in greece and in europe the people are unhappy. they show that in the eu-28, at least 123 million europeans are at risk of poverty, while 9.6% of the population is severely deprived. the achievement of the objectives of sustainable development therefore requires a change of policy in europe, it requires funds for social europe, it requires the european funds to be active and the european central bank, which must direct the billions of euros of quantitative easing towards strengthening the real economy and not the casino economy.
mr president, the european commission has presented us here with an overly optimistic view of the situation in relation to the achievement of the 2030 sustainable development goals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. poverty and social inequality are getting worse, the destruction of biodiversity is continuing, man is constantly degrading his natural environment both in the european union and of course outside the european union and, you know, in today's globalised economic space, what happens in our neighbourhood has an impact on us too. we need a stronger mechanism to monitor progress towards the objectives of sustainable development and, of course, a mechanism to finance member states to achieve these objectives by redistributing from the strongest to the weakest member states, and we also need a reorientation of our external economic policy so that free trade can only take place within the objectives and constraints that the need to achieve sustainable development will impose.
the debate is closed. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the eu civil protection mechanism with its own operational capabilities (2017/2975 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, only in october we had a debate here in this very chamber on the tragic forest fires in portugal and spain. therefore, i would like to start by thanking the european commission for having very quickly delivered a legislative proposal to amend the union’s civil protection mechanism. the civil protection mechanism is a good mechanism. it is a very concrete expression of european solidarity, focusing both on the response and on supporting the member states in preparing for disaster. but the context in which we operate today is evolving rapidly, as we discussed in october. we are faced with an increased number of disasters with a high impact on lives and infrastructure. forest fires, which hit several member states in recent months, have shown that we have gaps which affect our capacity to respond effectively to disasters and that we need to prevent and prepare better. i will not go into the details of the commission’s proposal, which by now is well known to you. let me just say that this is a very ambitious proposal. it merits a thorough examination by the council as a matter of urgency, bearing in mind the importance of european solidarity, but also of national responsibility. discussions will start in the council as early as next week. in parallel, the presidency would encourage the commission to work together with the member states on all possible intermediary measures which do not require a change in the current legislation. these can bring immediate, concrete improvements, allowing for faster deployments of member states’ capacities, especially in view of the next forest fire season. the council looks forward to working closely with the european parliament and, indeed, the european commission on these matters.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the estonian presidency for its support in these ambitious proposals and i am sure that we are working together in order to reach our common goal. i am grateful for your initiative to debate our proposals to strengthen the union’s civil protection mechanism and create rescue, the new structure for our mechanism regarding civil protection. in 2017 we witnessed intense forest fires, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, disasters that claimed human lives, damaged properties, livelihoods and of course the environment, not only inside europe but also across the world, and unfortunately the list is long. as the minister has already said, devastating forest fires in portugal, also in croatia, spain, france, italy, greece – an extended fire season that lasted until the end of october. it is a very unique phenomenon because, of course, of climate change. at the same time, hurricane ophelia in the uk and ireland caused severe floods, deadly storms also in greece, germany, poland, the czech republic, storms that are ongoing and that keep producing disastrous floods. albania is the most recent victim. natural disasters have become more frequent and more intense. their effects are more unpredictable, all the more for emergencies that can completely overwhelm the national capacities and national resources. i am proud, as commissioner for humanitarian aid and crisis management, of the support we could provide for such crises through our current system, our current voluntary pool civil protection mechanism. i would like once more to thank all our member states that have actively contributed to help countries that are victims of disasters and emergencies. but the reality on the ground is different today. climate change has changed the game, and unfortunately this is our new reality. maybe this is our new normal and we must adapt and be prepared to face this new reality. i strongly believe that european support in disasters and emergencies is strongly needed. as you know, this european support is based on voluntary contributions by our member states. but it is very hard, and i saw on the ground – it was a very painful experience even to me and other ministers – it is very hard for any of our member states to help one another if they both face disasters or risks at the same time, simultaneously. what happened recently in portugal is the most painful example. countries with strong records of solidarity could not help portugal this time because they were also facing forest fires at the same time. it is clear that the current voluntary system has reached its limits. three weeks ago you know that the college of commissioners adopted my proposal with the strong support of our president, jean-claude juncker, to upgrade the current system of the civil protection mechanism and create rescue. rescue? what is rescue? rescue is a structure based on two pillars. firstly with rescue our union will have its own capacity with command and control to respond to disasters. you can think of rescue as a safety net when national capacities and national resources are not enough. in essence, rescue means that no european country will stand alone when facing forest fires, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes or epidemics. let me stress one critical point. rescue will not replace national capacities. i would like to repeat, it will not replace national capacities. it will support and complement national capacities and resources. i am very firm on this point. the primary responsibility to prepare for and respond to disasters remains with our member states. through rescue we will also increase financial incentives for our member states to make their own capacities available to others. this will be the european civil protection pool. the second pillar of these proposals means prevention and preparedness. i want to be frank on this. solidarity comes with responsibility. prevention and preparedness are at the heart of a comprehensive response to natural disasters and emergencies. member states have to improve their risk assessment, their risk management plans. we are here to help them and we will also help establish a common cultural prevention and preparedness. it is quite important to see and to improve this culture of prevention. for this to be done, member states need to be supported through the structural and investment funds, and they also need to be supported through all related union policies and instruments. i am thinking of environment, climate, health, research and others. dear colleagues, rescue demonstrates the commission’s commitment to strengthen the eu support to our citizens when natural disasters or emergencies threaten their lives and their properties. today, i am here to ask for your support for these proposals. i know many of you have already expressed your interim support, and thank you so much for this. i am sure that through our exchange of views we can do more to cultivate all aspects of these proposals. i am looking forward to listening to your remarks and thoughts.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in recent years we have witnessed enormous natural disasters because of climate change. fires have burned the forests of southern europe. floods are hitting our towns and villages. recently in greece we mourned 24 victims of the deadly floods in the city of mandras, in western attica. in addition, engelados is increasingly visiting greece and italy, which have been hit by devastating earthquakes. it is therefore clear that, alongside national civil protection mechanisms, the european union must build a subsidiary civil protection mechanism to assist national authorities in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. at the same time, the european union should allocate increased resources through the european solidarity fund and the european regional development fund to compensate those affected, to repair damage and to strengthen the logistical infrastructure of national civil protection mechanisms.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, the european civil protection mechanism cannot be effective, because its role is undermined by the general policy of the european union, namely the policy of austerity and memoranda, which strips the mechanisms of the necessary operational means. but there is a question of responsibility in disaster prevention. i am referring to the recent tragic disaster that occurred a month ago in the floods in mandra and nea peramos, near athens, where 24 people drowned. the risk of flooding in the area in question was known on the basis of the preliminary flood risk assessment studies required by directive 60/2007. there are responsibilities for the inadequacy and negligence of governments, who did nothing, because the directive provided that for those areas where preliminary studies showed that there was a risk, definitive flood risk management plans should be drawn up by 12 december 2015 by the competent ministry of the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. when it became clear that the december deadline had passed and the greek authorities had not carried out the mandatory flood risk management plans, what did your services do? have the greek authorities been informed? pressured in what way? what authorities were they in contact with? what excuses did they finally get for the unacceptable delay that ultimately cost the lives of 24 of our fellow citizens?
mr president, the union's financial framework for aid to affected areas helps with reconstruction and relief but does not prevent or deal with forest fires, landslides, landslides, floods, heavy snowfall, frost, earthquakes and radiobiological chemical warfare. the union has adequately designed civil protection with the open partial agreement on major disaster response and the evita and prometheus projects; the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the community's policy on the environment. the optimisation of common operational procedures and the strengthening of the preventive and repressive capacity of civil protection should be updated and upgraded at the level of the transnational centre of operations and the establishment of a mechanism for immediate intervention and assistance to persons and means. i therefore call on all parties to plan and support the establishment of joint response units with immediate transport and deployment capabilities, properly equipped and trained to be able to respond to natural or man-made disasters.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat racism and xenophobia, and that the european union is able to take action to combat racism and xenophobia. to do more, we need to look at the roots of the rise of the far right and nazism in europe today. we saw it in greece a few years ago. we saw it last in germany with the rise of the far-right party. we see it everywhere. in order to deal with this political phenomenon, we have to deal with the causes that cause it, namely the austerity policies that have been implemented, the social injustices that are growing, things that cause anger in the population and a lot of insecurity, and turn people, working people from the popular strata, as we have seen in france, to the far right. we must change our policy and move towards a social, fair europe which ensures stability and security for its citizens. (the president accepted a question with a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question with a blue card. the difference between the nazi symbols and the communist symbols can be seen in just one photograph. in the photo of the liberation of berlin in 1945 by the nazi troops, these troops who had executed tens of millions and had sent millions of people to the crematoria, one flag, a different flag, they were holding soldiers who liberated berlin and brought down hitler, and this flag had the hammer. you can't put one thing next to the other.
mr president, thank you and good luck in your new duties. mr avramopoulos, as you said, we must not forget the victims of nazism. we must not forget the nazi concentration camps and crematoria. we in greece do not forget, mr president, the millions of our fellow citizens who were executed by the nazi occupation troops in greece between 1941 and 1944. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and we are therefore calling for the immediate release of the hostages and for the immediate release of the hostages. but here in the european parliament, in the committee on petitions, the european people's party, the socialist group and the liberals have for three years in a row rejected my proposal for the committee on petitions to hold a public hearing on german reparations. the same groups have removed from my report, which will be debated tomorrow, any reference to german reparations. the same groups also decided that the report by the national resistance fighters on german reparations allegedly does not fall within the scope of action of the european union. shame on you!
mr president, for many decades communists, leftists of all stripes and their comrades have called fascists and nazis any patriot who declared that he loved his country and nation and cared about their future. today they are calling for the general and vague abolition of the use of nazi and fascist symbols. of course, they do not do the same thing for communist symbols. we are neither nazis nor fascists, neither i nor my colleagues in the european parliament nor the party to which we belong. we are nationalists, active patriots, who are fighting against the genocide imposed on our country, greece, by the memoranda, and for this very reason i believe that the proposed bans are aimed at abolishing freedom of thought, political will and political action. today they are calling for the abolition of these freedoms. tomorrow they will ask for some others to be abolished, the day after tomorrow they will not even allow us to say good morning. we hear the death knell of political liberties in europe, but as hemingway said, when you hear the bell ring, don't ask who it's for. it could be for you, too.
mr. chairman, i more or less endorse the position of my colleagues. it is quite clear that the power of inquiry is a key power of the modern legislature, and when we do not set out detailed rules for how the investigative bodies can operate, we discredit ourselves. unfortunately, today the commission and the council are showing in their statements that there is not much will on their part to solve practical concrete problems. my colleagues here said so. when there are no clear rules on how to obtain documents, how to handle documents, when there are no clear rules on how to summon people to give evidence for a particular investigation, then we are trying to have a power that is actually empty. that is, in my opinion, very bad. so i join my colleagues in calling on the commission and the council to realise that if the investigatory powers cannot be fully exercised, if they cannot be fully implemented, then we are damaging the european parliament in the eyes of the public. it is difficult to explain to our citizens how we can exercise this important power without detailed legislation to enable it to be exercised. please, also in the interest of protecting the good name of the institutions of the european union, let's move this matter forward.
mr president, under article 226 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, parliament has the power to set up temporary committees of inquiry to investigate allegations of breaches or misapplication of union law. it is a classic right of all national parliaments. it is a cornerstone of parliamentarism that parliaments can set up committees of inquiry, and this simple 'if you will' right has taken so many years to be incorporated into the treaties. but it seems that it can't be done. so far we have committees of inquiry on very important issues, on the panama papers, on luxleaks, but eventually an important framework has to be established. as you said, mr avramopoulos, the means available to the european parliament must be clarified. but these should not differ from the powers of the national parliaments. it is therefore a matter of the willingness of the other institutions to join the negotiations and the debate. the fact that five years have passed and nothing has been done proves that there is no will on the part of the other institutions and above all it creates a distorted and bad image among the citizens themselves. the citizens want parliament to have powers, to be able to set up committees of inquiry and to have powers within those committees of inquiry.
mr president, sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children are first and foremost moral crimes, because they offend and damage the delicate soul of the victims, who are vulnerable and unprotected. in addition, they cause psychological problems, which often leave wounds that remain for life. at the same time, combined with child pornography, they also become criminal offences which the state must prosecute immediately, harshly and in an exemplary manner. children are the future of any state, they are the agents that guarantee the survival and continuity of the nation. that is why we must protect them at the level of the family and at the level of the state. unfortunately, the internet's capabilities give those who want to exploit and sexually abuse children the opportunity to do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of children are protected, and that the rights of children are protected, and that the rights of children are protected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the fight against the phenomena of sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children must be put on the agenda. we must be equally resolute in the case of the exemplary punishment of child pornography. directive 2011/93 lays down rules which, however, need to be further strengthened, in particular as regards the punishment of child pornography online. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the framework and scope of directive 2011/93 are clear. in addition, the need for increased prevention measures and the identification of victims should be emphasised. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment. so no tolerance for those who promote child pornography! their place is not in society, but in prison.
in writing. in my recent report on the fight against cybercrime, i devoted a special section to the dangers facing children in the modern digital world. today, unicef reveals that young people and especially children remain virtually unprotected online from a wide range of risks, including cyberbullying, privacy violations, abuse and sexual exploitation. the sexual abuse of children online and offline is a growing tragedy that even infants are victims of. it is a cross-border crime which requires transnational police and judicial cooperation to deal with and appropriate coordination between european crime-fighting authorities. criminal networks of child sexual abuse online have evolved and law enforcement authorities are faced with legislation that does not always anticipate future developments. it is our duty to institute the necessary changes to help prevent and combat this criminal phenomenon. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, including the introduction of a new system of penalties for the use of drugs, the introduction of a new system of penalties for the use of drugs, and the introduction of a new system of penalties for the use of drugs. at the same time, with transnational information and awareness campaigns, we must protect children and educate adults against the ignorance and fear that are exacerbating the problem.
the first item on the agenda is the report by mr noci maria, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the work of the committee on petitions in 2016, pursuant to rule 216 (7) of its rules of procedure (2017/2222 ((ini)) (a8-0387/2017)
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the cooperation we have had in drawing up the report, which will be put to the vote today, a report on the work of the committee on petitions for the year 2016. i would also like to thank the secretariat of the committee on petitions and my colleagues in the ecr secretariat. as you know, the right of referral to the european parliament is enshrined in the european treaties. this is an important right which derives from european citizenship itself. of course, every citizen, in accordance with the treaty, and every permanent resident of the european union has the right to submit a report on a matter which falls within the fields of action of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the committee on petitions is the only committee in which citizens themselves participate, since they act as rapporteurs. in this sense it is also an indirect mechanism for monitoring the application of european union law, and so there is a link with the commission itself, and of course we shall be very interested to hear the commission's views, mr vella's views in this case, on how the commission sees the operation of the committee on petitions. but i would also say that mr timmermans' frequent participation in our work gives an indication of how and at what level this cooperation should be, a cooperation which is certainly important because citizens with reports raise important issues, such as the right to free movement, issues relating to the implementation of fundamental rights, issues relating to the rights of the child and disabled people, but of course citizens' concerns about the protection of the environment are also expressed through the committee on petitions, which has a direct link and close cooperation with the european ombudsman. i would therefore say that the issues that have been the subject of concern in 2016 and are also the subject of concern for the committee on petitions this year are important. we were particularly concerned about the marrakesh agreement on the rights of the blind, the rights also arising from the istanbul agreement, the rights of the child and we had also received many references to brexit, because people are worried, especially citizens of the european union, about what will happen to their rights after the united kingdom leaves the european union. an important issue that occupied us in 2016 was german reparations, an issue that, as you know, i have raised since the first moment of my election here in the european parliament, since there is a demand of greece, which is defined by the decisions of the 1946 peace agreement that determine germany's obligation to pay war reparations to greece, to return of course the forced occupation loan and to compensate the relatives of the victims executed by the nazi occupation troops. so this issue was raised with the report of the fighters of the national resistance and the democratic army of greece, on 2214/2014. with my intervention in september 2015, this report was accepted and the procedure was subsequently opened for discussion. we have made many efforts to put this particular report on the shelf, not to discuss it, and unfortunately the majority of the coordinators of the committee on petitions on 8.9.2016 considered that this issue does not fall, allegedly, within the competence of the european union and closed the file. that is what was referred to in paragraph 16 of my report. unfortunately the european people's party, the socialist group and the liberals did not accept this position, they tabled an amendment and this view has been deleted from the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have to mention this because it is important. i am waiting for the views of my colleagues and i reserve the two minutes i have after the debate is over to reply.
mr president, yesterday, 13 december, marked 74 years since the holocaust, that is to say the execution of all the men and boys of the martyred kalafrites in greece by the nazi occupation troops. one of the dozens of holocausts, the thousands of crimes of nazism in greece, for which, despite the decisions of international bodies, germany has never paid reparations. and yet the majority of the committee on petitions of the european parliament, taking advantage of the syriza government's refusal to be included, did not investigate the report submitted by the union of national resistance fighters of the democratic army of greece in cooperation with the communist party of greece on these compensations, but deleted from the minutes of the committee even the fact that there had ever been such a report. this is what you call democratic control. this is not a simple mistake, it's historical presumption! the european union is rewriting history: by distorting facts, inventing fictitious ones, suppressing the real ones. that's how the far right, the nazis, the gold-diggers, the hitler-nostalgians, the armed arm of this system against the people, get their courage. as much as some people here want it and insist on it, memory is a weapon in the hands of the people and we will not surrender it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this very relevant debate. i hope you will agree with me that the range of issues addressed during this morning’s debate provides proof not only of the importance of the right to petition in our union but also of the importance of our collective efforts to respond to the concerns that citizens bring to our attention. my choice of the word ‘collective’ in this context is a delicate one, as both parliament and the commission have key roles to play in these areas. i would like to comment on one area, that of environment and health, where it was said that this is one area which directly affects our citizens, and i totally agree. in fact, according to europol and eurobarometer, environmental standards and legislation are among the main areas of legislation most appreciated and acknowledged by eu citizens. there was also a mention of environmental impact assessments (eias) and i would like to comment that, every year, 16 000 eias and 34 000 screenings are carried out in the eu 28. in addition, whenever there is a risk of serious irreversible environmental harm and health risks, then the commission always intervenes proactively. finally, let me reiterate that the commission continues to attach great importance to the good working relationship built during these years with the committee on petitions and would like to reassure parliament of its continued and strong commitment to cooperate closely together in the handling of petitions.
the rapporteur. i think that the debate has highlighted the main points contained in the report, or those which were deleted in amendments which were unfortunately accepted. i am, mr jahr, firm on the question of german reparations and i will remain firm, because this is a very serious matter and you must realise that the basis for the functioning of post-war europe is the 1946 paris peace treaty. the question of german war reparations was also settled there. and 74 years after the holocaust, the massacre of calabria on 13 december 1943, the european union must give a serious answer, and the serious answer is firstly that we do not forget, and secondly that there is a serious issue called 'german war reparations' which concerns greece, poland and possibly other countries, and this issue is not going to be closed. it's not gonna close with a trick or an amendment or anything. i've said it over and over and i'll say it again and again and i'll say it here: in the next few days i shall be submitting a report on the german compensation issue, and i shall then see how you deal with it. but it turns out that you do not even want a public debate on this issue, because for four years you have consistently rejected my personal proposals for a public hearing, a public debate by the committee on petitions on the question of german reparations, and you have consistently rejected it, the european people's party, the socialist group and the liberals. what for? what were you afraid of in public debate and in public hearing? i think that this question will always be relevant, because tricks and amendments do not erase historical memory. it is therefore a demand of the greek people, a demand of the thousands, millions of victims of nazism, that justice be done, and this should be clear to you, who are from germany. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. the president of the court of justice shall be assisted by a judge.
the next item is the report by bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on a european strategy for low-emission mobility (2016/2327 (ini)) (a8-0356/2017)
the report we are discussing is really very interesting, mr president, because it touches on the serious issue of emissions of polluting gases. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but to make the changes, investment is needed, because these changes require significant technological advances. they need new infrastructure. to have these changes on the railway side, you realize that it requires huge expenditures. the same applies if we have changes in the shipping and aviation industries and especially in the automobile industry. i think it is an opportunity to open the way to new investment, to open the way to technological developments, and this report forms a framework which we could follow along the way.
madam president, blogger nguyen van hoa was convicted for opposing the environmental disaster that is happening in his home country, and that was because a certain taiwanese company dumped toxic industrial waste into the ocean. it is a situation which is linked to the activity of citizens who are at this moment fighting against an unacceptable situation in vietnam. the unacceptable situation in vietnam is also linked to the european multinationals and other multinationals which invest in vietnam, because there the workers work for a piece of bread, because there social rights are not respected, because there environmental rights are not respected. we have explained this when we were discussing it here, and many people have supported this vietnam-european union free trade cooperation, a process which is destroying both small and mediumsized enterprises in the european union and the vietnamese people. it would be good if you had thought of this, ladies and gentlemen, when you supported the signing of the cooperation agreement between the european union and vietnam. these are the results of the european union's policy in vietnam. so think about that.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, cambodia is a rich country with mines, timber, oil. unfortunately, the cambodian people do not reap the benefits of exploiting the natural resources of their country. we had been denouncing these events and the human rights violation in cambodia since november 26, 2015. it is well known what is happening in cambodia. it is well known that there are violations of human rights by the regime, a lack of pluralism, the persecution of the opposition, which has reached a peak in recent times, and the uncontrolled actions of the armed forces and security forces in suppressing demonstrations and strikes. we have denounced all this and it was known, but nevertheless there was and still is european union development aid to cambodia and the preferential agreement is still in force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the cambodian people are respected, and that the cambodian people are not subject to any discrimination.
madam president, in el salvador something incredible is happening: the law imposes a prison sentence in the event of a stillborn fetus or a miscarriage. this is the central issue we are discussing today and this is something that i think all sides of this house are denouncing, because it is not possible that there is no presumption of innocence and it is not possible that every fetus that is born dead or in the case of premature abortion is the responsibility of the mother and she is sent to prison. a striking case is that of evelin, who has been sentenced to thirty years in prison for manslaughter. so i think that these are the central issues that we have to focus on, because this is a practice in el salvador, as there are at least over 147 women who have been sentenced. so you realize that at this central point there is unity, i think, of all sides here and it's something that we have to condemn.
mr president, i voted in favour of the objection because the use of phosphate salts in meat preparations creates various risks for the health of consumers, and the extension of the use of phosphate salts to frozen meat preparations cooked in vertical shovels, such as the well-known turkish kebab and turkish porridge, sold in germany and other western european countries, is a source of risks for the health of consumers. in greece, greek pork and kebab are free of phosphorus salts, since their tendering, stabilisation and production of the final product is achieved by other purely hygienic methods. in fact, greek lapis is a guaranteed traditional product which deserves recognition and legal protection. the prohibition on the use of phosphorus salts in pollen would therefore, in essence, lead to a prohibition on the importation of turkish pollen into germany. the solution is simple: take advantage of the greek round that is healthy. ban the import of frozen turkey from turkey.
mr president, it is not very common for a rapporteur to vote against his own report. i voted against it for purely political reasons, to protest, because, as i mentioned in my speeches this morning, in paragraph 16 of my original report i had explicitly referred to the question of german compensation to be paid to greece. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. finally, however, despite the efforts of these political groups, another point in the explanatory statement which i made explicitly refers to the german war reparations that germany owes to greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a first step and we'll continue even stronger in 2018. - i'm not going to the party.
