written. i welcome the announcement by the maltese representatives that the priority of their presidency will be the citizens their wishes and expectations from the european union. the political developments in the union over the past year have shown us just how important this is. we must bring the european union closer to its citizens. i am confident that we will, as we have done so far, work in a spirit of openness and cooperation. when it comes to agricultural policy, i am pleased that malta recognises the importance of reaching agreement with the european parliament on the organic farming regulation and is willing to work on a framework that will help farmers overcome other major challenges. we need to ensure that citizens want to stay in rural areas, to farm, to produce quality and tested food to be served on our tables. to do so, we must put an end to unfair trading practices which are a cancer on european agriculture. such practices have threatened the survival of many family farms. almost every day, families close their farms and leave the village. the european union must put an end to this, and i believe that we can only do so by adopting regulations at european level. i expect malta to take steps in this direction during its presidency.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the vice-president on her new position, and i would like to thank mr tusk and take this opportunity to thank him for speaking to our representatives in croatian on monday in the croatian parliament, and this is an opportunity to thank you because it is welcomed in croatia. as for the council, i see you're making an effort, i see you're working hard, and i would say there's a shift. there's a lot of stuff you've been talking about, of course, but we haven't met the goals yet, as mr. brock said. so we have conclusions, we have conversations, but we need implementation. so it is necessary to apply what you have concluded. there's a lot of themes. we're aware that the problem is in ukraine, that there's no implementation of the minsk agreement, we see what's happening with trump's policy, the rapprochement with russia that we don't approve of, we see the reasons why you had to extend the sanctions. in any case, the conclusions are promising, but you need to continue to implement them if we want europe to really get going in the right direction in 2017.
madam president, the council's conclusions of december covered the challenges facing the european union today. i support the call for an extension of the european structural investment fund. i also stress that this fund is not and should not be a substitute for cohesion policy but a complement to it. the criteria for the approval of projects should be geographical spread and the general financial situation in the member states. the most developed countries should not be the ones withdrawing the most funds. i support strengthening the guarantee for young people because, unfortunately, they still need it. i welcome the priority treatment of foreign and security policy issues and the council's support for the process of strengthening the common security and defence policies. europeans must take greater responsibility for their own security. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, in the implementation of the union's external borders policy. i call for restraint in the misuse of this instrument for political purposes. for example, the threat of one member state to another by blocking the borders during the tourist season, all because of bilateral political issues, is unacceptable.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, while some european countries, including belgium, believe that the new financial transaction tax (ftt) will discourage speculative trading and bolster debt-laden public finances, it could in fact sink the euro area into deeper economic trouble. well—judged regulation is important. ill—judged regulation, as is the case with the eu’s proposed ftt, can do immense economic damage. indeed the ftt would have a severe impact on the functioning of debt markets, which are essential for governments and companies to raise funds, as it would increase both their borrowing and operational costs. the commission’s proposal is not just a tax on banks and is not just a tax on speculation, but will impact all areas of business as it will be applied at each stage of a multi-tiered financial transaction. this will have damaging consequences for the overall economy as it will cause a flood of financial activity to move beyond the borders of the ftt zone. as for the non—participating states, the ftt will be charged not just on transactions that take place within the 11 countries, but on any transaction that involves shares or bonds issued by them. it therefore threatens to give investors an extra reason not to buy europe’s securities or transact with its institutions at a time when it can ill afford to drive away economic activity.
the situation on the greek islands is more than dramatic. what we have to admit to ourselves is that our policy has failed the test. we're not successful. we don't know that after summer comes autumn and then inevitably comes winter and that winter brings snow and cold. we've forgotten the season, it seems. i know the situation in serbia. it's also extremely dramatic because we're talking about the fact that in the capital, in belgrade, in the city center, there are a lot of refugees and migrants. we have to help serbia, we have to help belgrade as a city. we have to try to make this situation really heal right away. what i want to stress in the end is the need to be very careful about the possible opening of the western balkans route because the balkans are not doing well today. it's boiling again. this powder keg in the balkans is boiling again. we must be very careful what we do because relations in the balkans are tightening, and the eventual influx of thousands of new refugees could further complicate the situation. i know it's hard to say, but it's real, and unfortunately, that's the way it is.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes mrs ayala sender’s own—initiative report, which draws attention to two important elements of our transport policy: first, the trans—european transport networks – ten-t – and, second, freight logistics. these elements are vital for the efficiency, service quality and sustainability of transport, and therefore for jobs, growth and investment in the european union. i think we are already on track to take up the challenges set out in the report prepared by parliament. multimodality and logistics are strong components of our ten-t policy. trans-european transport corridors support a more integrated, multimodal freight transport and logistics. the ten-t guidelines and the connecting europe facility regulation address a broad range of aspects referred to in our report. allow me to highlight the most important ones. all transport modes are covered. the removal of bottlenecks on railway lines, as well as inland waterways, are identified as investment priorities for european long—distance transport. in the road sector, the focus lies especially on increasing efficiency through innovative technologies, safe and secure driving and parking conditions, as well as the smooth integration into multimodal transport chains. intelligent transport systems are included for all modes in order to enable a more efficient infrastructure use, to promote new—generation user services for passengers and freight, as well as automation and digital solutions. under our ten-t policy, network nodes and the connection of transport modes are given reinforced importance, including at terminals, ports and airports. urban nodes and urban logistics infrastructure are amongst the newest elements of ten-t corridors. they allow investments in efficient multimodality and freight logistics and, thereby, also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. finally, infrastructure for clean fuels, such as natural gas, hydrogen and electricity, forms an integral part of ten-t infrastructure. eu funding under the connecting europe facility supports various types of projects, from large-scale infrastructure to very targeted intelligent transport system projects, clean fuel solutions or access infrastructure to multimodal terminals. while the ten-t corridors are a top priority, attention is also given to the complementarity between the core and comprehensive networks. the core network corridors approach has proven an effective tool to identify obstacles to efficient and seamless freight transport flows. the corridors’ completion continues to require substantial investment to remove physical bottlenecks which still hamper smooth flows of passengers and goods. eu funding until 2020 and beyond, including the mobilisation of private investment through the european fund for strategic investment (efsi), remains a key element to address the investment gap to meet the needs in transport sectors with focus on ten-ts. we estimate the needs to complete the ten-t core network to be eur 700 billion by 2030. thus we need to mobilise all sources of private and public funds. for example, we are going to launch a eur one billion cef blending call next month to combine grant funds with efsi financing whenever possible, and private funds to fund projects in line with ten-t priorities. an efficient and sustainable transport system is key to making full use of the internal market and to generating new jobs and economic growth. remaining administrative and technical barriers in and between modes of transport and national systems should also be removed. once again, i wish to thank and congratulate you on your report. on behalf of my colleague, violeta bulc, the commission welcomes that the european parliament attaches importance to the ten-t and the good functioning of logistics in the eu. we know we can count on your support to connect europe.
written. we are aware of the need to strengthen the ten-t networks and to encourage the real digitalisation of transport with a new safety system and the use of new forms of energy in transport. we certainly have to take into account the humanitarian and migration crises, and the increasing closure of borders, which is particularly problematic for freight traffic. in this context, i believe that logistics is of paramount importance in order to guarantee efficient and sustainable freight transport in the eu. the commission notes that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary to ensure the long-term viability of the project. regional networks should not be left out of the european perspective, including in terms of financial and regulatory measures, and therefore investment is needed to complete the links between the main union corridors. it is clear that the development of transport modes based on electricity and alternative energies, and consequently the necessary infrastructure, must be encouraged.
mr president, first of all, i congratulate you on your election and i would like to stress at once how big, how huge the new european data market is. it's a great new opportunity, a new chance for our economy, but it also requires our new responsibility. first of all, i want to make it clear that we need a set of clearly defined but simplified rules and legal regulations that will solve the problems of data ownership, data portability, data accessibility, research and innovation in the data economy, personal data protection, data localisation, which we have already talked about, and of course bring all of this together in the digital single market. the second thing i want to emphasize is the need for partnership, partnership of the european union with the member states, but let's never forget regional and local governments and of course the private sector, and when we talk about the private sector i don't always mean just big companies but small companies as well. so we have a lot to do, and this partnership, i'm sure, can help make our data economy even more efficient and stronger.
mr. president, my congratulations on your re-election. commissioner, with all the advantages of the data economy, i would like to stress that the use of this branch would also allow a reduction in the costs of state and public administration by 15 to 20 percent. there is a great deal of room for improvement in the european data economy, given that the united states, with which we are comparable, has twice as many people employed in this branch of the economy and a twice as large share of total trade in goods and services. so there is a huge scope for progress in the european data economy. among the difficulties i would mention the danger of the digital divide, the danger that the disparities in the development of our regions in the european union will increase further and that this should be given special attention. but i certainly thank the report and welcome all the measures announced by the commissioner to grow the data economy in europe.
written. the eu is on the right track when it comes to energy policy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the eu economy is one of the most efficient in the world in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and will, by all relevant indicators, meet its 2020 targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy. the transition to a low-carbon economy is one of the important objectives of the european union in the framework of the energy union. in this area, the potential of the member states needs to be better exploited, thereby ensuring a high number of jobs for eu citizens and preserving competitiveness. the achievement of energy independence as another energy union objective also affects the stability of economic growth, which is equally important in the current turbulent and volatile global geopolitical situation. in order to achieve the desired objectives, energy interconnections between the economies of the eu member states need to be strengthened. the implementation of these objectives would bring the eu closer to energy independence, which would have a positive impact on the union's economy, especially given that the union today spends more than eur 1 billion per day on energy imports from third countries.
mr. president, thirty years, ten million participants, hundreds of millions of euros invested in our citizens. big capital for the european union. investing in youth, investing in learning, investing in the people who are making europe with us today. and i think it's really rightly often said as one of the best programs that the european union has ever devised, as one of the hallmarks of the european union. however, i asked for the floor to point out to you, mr commissioner, another experience that exists, namely the eurodyssey programme, which exists within the assembly of european regions and where the partnership of local and regional self-government units, i.e. regions and cities, creates something similar to erasmus+. i invite you to think about and create partnerships not only with the member states but also with many regions and cities that have funds for their students, for their young people. i think there is another great potential for creating an even stronger erasmus programme.
mr president, i would certainly like to support the report by my esteemed colleague, mr takkula, in all those elements when we talk about the importance of sport, about the impact of sport, especially on the younger population, but also on the older ones, and even on those who are a little more plump like myself, for example. i would like, however, to give two dimensions. the dimension of those countries like, say, croatia, where i come from, which have very large and successful results. a very small country, top athletes in football, basketball, water polo and handball, all top of the world. major problems in the construction of sports facilities and sports infrastructure. in small towns, in small cities, that's where we really need to make it possible to finance sports infrastructure, because without that, of course, there is no active sport. many countries, especially the poorer ones, have a big problem with this. on the other hand, i would like to emphasise the dimension of tourism and sport, where we can really find many links, and i would also call on the commission to give serious thought to the development of a programme for the financing of tourist and sports infrastructure through tourism.
mr. president, for 25 years i have been advocating good neighbourly and friendly relations between croatia and slovenia. however, today i must warn the commission of a series of unacceptable actions and statements we are hearing from the slovenian government and its ministers. the slovenian government continues to build a wire on the border between croatia and slovenia in completely unnecessary and in completely unnecessary places. i must also say that the minister of agriculture continues to announce that we will be exhausted over one case that the commission has been dealing with and, i believe, has dealt with, the case of the terrain. however, the culmination is the statement of the minister of foreign affairs who says that in case croatia does not accept the arbitration on the border in the bay of piran, slovenia will make it difficult for guests to pass to tourist destinations on the croatian coast and elsewhere in croatia. these are unacceptable statements, these are not good-neighbour statements, these are not friendships between neighbouring countries that have been bound together by many things over the last hundreds, hundreds of years. i expect the commission to give careful thought to what it will do in the coming months.
the commission has already provided a number of examples of the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the 'european economic area' and 'european economic area' in the context of the 'european economic area' and 'european economic area' in the context of the 'european economic area' and 'european economic area' in the context of the 'european economic area' and 'european economic area' respectively. but this report from the european court of auditors also reveals that there is no european union strategy for the development of seaports. the court analysed 37 projects, of which only 18 projects were realised in the 13 years under review, and the other projects did not have an ex ante analysis, leading to inefficient projects and a large waste of money. the court already warned in 2012 that european maritime transport rules need to be consolidated and i therefore call on the european commission to finally present to the european council and the european parliament a strategy for the development of maritime transport in the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of parliament, let me start by expressing my thanks for this debate. i am really glad at the end of this session that there is a large consensus in this house on the need to keep the promises the european union has made to the people of georgia. the georgian government has indeed worked very hard to fulfil all the benchmarks of the visa liberalisation action plan, and i would like to commend and praise once again the government for its commitment. should there be any problems after visa liberalisation, the revised suspension mechanism is there to deal with that. we will continue to monitor the situation. there is no need to delay this important file any further. let us proceed with the voting on the report by ms gabriel, which will bring us one step closer to the conclusion of the whole procedure to grant visa-free travel for the citizens of this great country.
written. georgia is an important trading partner of the eu and a key player in the security challenges in the eastern partnership area. the visa liberalisation process should be based on the principle of mutual recognition of visas, which is a fundamental principle of the schengen acquis. the commission has also assessed the progress made in the implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan (vlap) and the progress made in the implementation of the visa liberalisation measures. such a move brings significant benefits to georgian citizens as well. while georgia is a stable democracy that has initiated concrete measures to combat organised crime, including trafficking in human beings, terrorism and corruption, efforts to make progress in the area of media freedom, judicial independence and fair elections need to be further strengthened.
madam president, we are aware and agree on the need to protect a healthy environment and the need to combat climate change, but we must also be aware of the need to find a sustainable balance between protecting the environment and protecting industrial jobs in the european union. the already undertaken dislocation of industry has caused damage to industrial potential and the closure of many jobs in the european union. some amendments in the report are very harmful, especially the 12th and 84th, for the cement sector in the republic of croatia and would cause the closure of all factories and the elimination of 3000 jobs. and this is in favour of competing third countries, on the edge of the european union, which pollute europe's air equally, and have no restrictions. the cement industry is the hardest hit, not only in croatia but also in other countries: portugal, spain, italy, greece, estonia, and ireland. apart from the cement industry, the steel industry will be at risk because the standards and standards that we are setting at the moment for the industry are technically unattainable and would put their profitability in question.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, four months ago, in this very hall, we adopted the resolution that signed, or accepted, the paris agreement and made it effective. what does this emissions trading system actually give us? if we have one robust and stable system, we have actually provided a way of funding to ensure that transition from dirty energy to clean energy. but i would like to turn now to the consequences, namely the modernization fund, which is supposed to make that transition happen. i would like to draw the attention of our esteemed commissioner cañete to what is really happening in the european union. so we all have to contribute equally to reducing co2 emissions, no matter which member state we live in. however, if we look at the less developed member states in eastern and south-eastern europe, capital investment in clean technology and renewable energy is much higher than in other member states. so one inequitable relationship when we talk about investing in clean energy.
madam president, competition is the only real guarantee of the strength of the european economy and that is why i support any initiative that seeks to eliminate redundant regulation and ensure that all economic operators, both small and large, have an equal position in the market. i agree with the report in that it calls for a simple and transparent tax policy and highlights public procurement as particularly prone to corruption. but i cannot agree with calls for harmonisation of tax rates across the eu because i believe that competition should not only exist between companies but also between countries. the harmonization of tax rates consolidates the existing situation and will make it impossible for the less developed members to catch up with the more developed ones. how, for example, will a croatia with a poor justice system and infrastructure and a lower number of skilled workers ever compete with germany if it has the same tax rates? who would invest in croatia next to one germany if there is no financial benefit?
madam president, women with mental health issues face stigma and need a holistic approach to help them. this report goes far beyond the scope of the european union's own subject matter and competence, and it is an excessive intrusion into the profession itself. health care and health policy are a matter for the member states and we must respect that. we can't use that. and this parliament should not be used to promote an ideology that is contrary to the values of the european union. a report that promotes abortion as socially acceptable and gender ideology as an ultimatum is absolutely unacceptable to me and i will not support it.
madam president, as a woman working in a male-dominated environment, this topic is extremely close to my heart and i believe that we have a lot of work to do in promoting equal legal protection for women and men. i think we need to do more to advance the status of women and to ensure that all girls and women have equal opportunities. equal work must be paid equally and barriers to women entering the labour market must be removed. i think it is important to encourage women to be entrepreneurs, but i also call for support for women farmers, which is often overlooked. women are the essential anchor and foundation of society in every segment of it, which needs to be supported and legally protected as the standard, not the exception. i also call for the rejection of amendments calling on the european union to fund abortions with the money of our taxpayers around the world. this is not the european union's task and it is absolutely unacceptable. we will not improve the position of women by these measures but by ensuring that they are treated equally with men.
written. what is the future of europe? do we have the power to change anything radically? the absurdity of the whole story is that the great euro-enthusiasm that existed until 2005 was not used to strengthen the eu. formally, it was difficult because the uk has always resisted deepening its relationship with the eu, and today, with the brexit referendum, it has definitely left while europe is in an even deeper crisis. meanwhile, policy changes in poland, hungary, and other countries have deepened the crisis. europe is wandering and has no answer. the verhofstadt and brok-bresso reports suggest some solutions, but i do not see them as being bold and comprehensive enough.
mr president, many studies have shown that consumers in the newer eu countries are being sold products of lower quality. and it's not because of the different tastes of local consumers, but the basic ingredients that make us buy a product are either in smaller quantities or completely different. so we had a case in the czech republic where instead of pork, there was chicken in the meat loaf. consumers say that the differences are found in cars and in agricultural products and in detergents and elsewhere. that is why i am asking the european commission to investigate and find out whether there are differences at european level in the quality of products being placed on the market. i would remind you that the commission funded a study in slovakia in 2011 which found significant differences, but unfortunately nothing happened after that. a survey i conducted in collaboration with the croatian food agency showed that over 70% of croatian citizens feel that they are second-class citizens in the eyes of western corporations. i regret that today's vote in the european parliament has shown that parliament feels the same way about them.
madam president, i'm pleased to see this report has been accepted. prohibitions don't reduce abortions, they put women in a vulnerable position. in croatia, protests are increasingly taking place outside hospitals as girls and women go to perform abortions. in addition, confidential information about the term or about them personally comes to the association for the prohibition of abortion. a growing number of doctors in the european union are appealing to conscience, in italy as many as 70 percent. that's why i've asked that hospitals provide a minimum number of doctors willing to perform an abortion. i know that health is a matter for the member states, i know what abortion is, what its consequences are for women's health. i'm a physician. however, i think this is an extremely important issue and that the european union must show a progressive direction for the member states in the best interests of our citizens. colleagues on the right also argue that the report has too many elements related to lgbti people. recently, lgbtq people in zagreb were attacked with a tear gas canister in a nightclub. are we really going to argue that this attack has nothing to do with their mental health?
madam president, nearly 10,000 people, soldiers and civilians, have died since the conflict began in april 2014. the temporary ceasefire was replaced by a renewed intensification of the conflict from 29 january, mostly in the area of avdiivka. targets are being chosen, two hospitals, three schools, a kindergarten are damaged, and in some areas the supply of energy and water has been cut off due to damage to infrastructure. when you add to that the low temperatures, the result is the humanitarian catastrophe we see every day. the escalation of the conflict in eastern ukraine is not only a matter of respect for the provisions of international law, it is a serious security challenge for the entire european union. the union's response, i.e. support for ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, must be united, especially in view of the vague actions of the new us administration, possible changes in the stance towards ukraine and russia in general. the urgent cessation of hostilities, the protection of civilians and support for the full implementation of the minsk agreements, as the basis for a sustainable political settlement of the conflict, must remain our clear priority, and the european union must be an active factor in its achievement.
written. as we have stressed many times, the aim of the european institutions is not to take the lead in resolving a dispute that does not belong to us, but to provide friendly support in the potential resolution of conflicts and instability that have gone on for too long. i welcome the vision of the eu and the entire international community of a proposed solution better known as 'two states for two peoples', which was expressed in oslo as the best for all. excessive interference in politics and internal legislation is not the eu's job. this is a conflict with deep roots and difficult solutions, especially when third parties are involved, and our primary objective should therefore be to help create the conditions for a fruitful dialogue, without which no agreement can be reached. judea and samaria are areas that have been inhabited by jews for thousands of years, they are the cradle of jewish civilization, and therefore, when negotiating the future of these areas, this fact should be taken into account, as well as the well-being of all the people who gravitate to this area.
madam president, the dialogue between the political parties in parliament, the dialogue between the government and the opposition, has enabled albania to have such a positive debate today. that is the main message that must go to the albanian political body. we must make it clear that we support their dialogue and the constitutional changes that are underway. we expect them to be implemented, but we expect much more. we expect to solve the problem of corruption, of course, but also minority rights and freedom of the press. all this will be possible only if the dialogue within the albanian political body really continues. so i'm looking forward to this new initiative, the adriatic trilateral. i look forward to what albania is doing as part of the european union's adriatic-ionian macro-strategy. i look forward to all her successes, but we expect that what has been started will indeed be continued and implemented.
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mr predi for the good report and cooperation and to express the official support of the alde group for the path and progress of bosnia and herzegovina on the path towards the european union. the report highlights the difficulties bosnia and herzegovina is facing in the social and economic spheres, such as high unemployment, corruption and poor judiciary, but also in the country's structure, in terms of weak central state institutions, conflict of competence of authorities at various levels, and slow decision-making and frequent blockages at all levels of government. for example, a number of decisions of the constitutional court of bosnia and herzegovina have not been implemented, which leads to the country being in a de facto lawless state, with regard to the functioning of the judiciary and the rule of law. one of such decisions is the decision on the election of members and functioning of members of the assembly of the federation of bosnia and herzegovina, the house of peoples. in the existing arrangements, bosniaks can elect serb and croat representatives, have a majority and form a government without the participation of representatives who are elected by the majority of the other two peoples. it is a mockery of the principle of equality of the three constituent peoples in bosnia and herzegovina, a mockery of the constitution of bosnia and herzegovina, as well as a mockery of the dayton agreement, on which bosnia and herzegovina rests. bosnia and herzegovina is a predominant country. and that is why i think that the european parliament's resolution should be more precise, clearer and more decisive in calling for a solution to all these difficulties that bosnia and herzegovina is facing. because of the importance of bosnia and herzegovina in this area, because of the instability and unrest that threatens the entire area, i call on the european commission and the council to be more strongly involved in bosnia and herzegovina, but also in the entire western balkans.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. scholtes, you said that bosnia and herzegovina is a complicated country and i can agree with you, because the way it functions and the structure is really very complicated. i would like to ask you if you agree with me that the concept of the state of citizens, according to the logic of sejdic-finci, but also the concept of constituent peoples that made possible through the dayton agreement peace in bosnia and herzegovina, as written in the constitution, are a prerequisite for further progress of bosnia and herzegovina and its entry into the european union?
madam president, i thank mr. predi for his maximum commitment to this report, but also commissioner hahn for his understanding of the situation in bosnia and herzegovina. i thank you for following and for being ready today to send a clear signal to bosnia and herzegovina about the further continuation of the euro-atlantic path of bosnia and herzegovina. i think it is very important that this european parliament, and i believe it will do so by voting tomorrow, sends a strong signal to bosnia and herzegovina that we must continue on this path. the positive dynamic is very important. what this report contains i cannot enumerate here now, however, after all these discussions, the need for an amendment to the electoral law is indicated. what i welcome is that for the fourth time in this report the emphasis is placed on the principles of federalism, subsidiarity and decentralisation, which i believe are necessary for all three constituent peoples and, of course, the minorities in bosnia and herzegovina to enjoy equal rights. i am here to emphasize the rights of the croatian people, their right to their language, to their tv channel and all the rights that belong to them both under the dayton agreement and under the current laws.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague mr predi on the excellent cooperation on this very demanding resolution. the situation in bosnia and herzegovina is only complicated by the idea of how to develop relations in the country that suffered the most in the wars of the 1990s in the former yugoslavia. this is an opportunity to ask the question, what is the real reality of bosnia and herzegovina today? apart from the illegal referendum in republika srpska, bosnia and herzegovina faces many major socioeconomic and security challenges. however, unlike other western balkan countries, the reasons for the blockades and crises in bosnia and herzegovina are predominantly internal political. if bosnia and herzegovina were a different country, its obligations on the european path could be divided into lighter and heavier, short-term and long-term, but in bosnia and herzegovina, any shift towards european transformation affects the costly dayton agreement. political contradictions, economic problems, and social uncertainty will not disappear overnight because they reflect a particularly complex state system that fosters a culture of conflict rather than agreement. any solution that is the result of internal consensus and not external imposition should be welcomed. what should be particularly sensitive is the constitutional equality and equity of all constituent peoples and citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. in addition, fair representation should be ensured for other communities. the principles of constitutionality of federalism are very important for the functioning of such a complex and asymmetric state as bosnia and herzegovina. a further violation of these would expose the country's stability to greater risks than any external pressures.
madam president, croats are bound to bosnia and herzegovina by historical, cultural and kinship ties, and the republic of croatia has the longest land border, obligations as a signatory of the dayton agreement, a constitutional obligation to protect croats in bih, as a constituent people, and significant economic exchange. therefore, i am responsible in stating that no one cares more for the stability, sustainability and prosperity of bosnia and herzegovina than the croatian people and the croatian state. but it won't be good will alone that will make bih function as a state. the dayton formula has long since fallen short of the needs of bosnian society, and separatist and centralistic tendencies are hampering the healing of war wounds and the functioning of institutions. bih must become a decentralized community of three peoples with equal rights who govern themselves, do not threaten others and build mutual trust at the state level. this can only be achieved by a federal model whereby the croatian people will also get what the other two nations already have in practice.
the question she raised by raising her blue card. mr president, do you not think that there are different geopolitical influences and different geopolitical spheres in this part of europe and do you not think that it would be important for us, as the european union, to have a peaceful and reliable neighbourhood?
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague, mr predi, for his excellent report. in previous resolutions, this parliament has indicated that federalism, not unitarianism or separatism, is the only integrative factor that brings peace and security to bosnia and herzegovina. it's the middle way that the country needs to come back from two decades of looking for a model to reconcile three communities that have been through a terrible war and are looking for a common future while respecting their differences. the opponents of this middle way, of federalism, are offering us the same policies that have produced no results for 20 years since the dayton and paris agreements. the constitutionality of the three nations is the basis of the dayton agreement, its integrating factor and guarantee of the stability of the country. changing the electoral law based on the principles of federalism and legitimate representation is the first step towards restoring confidence and stability that a larger people will no longer elect another people's political representatives. then comes the implementation of a constitutional court ruling that will restore democracy to the local community, as in the case of mostar, a city hostage to a long-imposed statute that has proven unconstitutional. and finally, we hope to open a wider discussion on amending the constitution that will finally make the three peoples in bih equal and secure.
madam president, i congratulate mr predi on this report and thank him for the adoption in the final text of my amendments, which i tabled with my colleagues from the club of deputies of the european people's party. i strongly support the european path of bosnia and herzegovina and call for the implementation of the necessary reforms, including constitutional reforms, which will allow the full functionality and stability of bosnia and herzegovina and the equality of all constituent peoples. to achieve this goal, federalisation should be considered as a possible model. the basic human and civil rights of croats are violated on a daily basis and they are a constituent nation only on paper. we demand equality of rights for all three peoples to be able to elect their political representatives, for children to have education in their mother tongue, for media programs to be broadcast in all three official languages of bosnia and herzegovina. in addition to the political problems that need to be overcome, there are environmental and air pollution problems in bosnia and herzegovina that directly affect croatian citizens, especially in slavonski brod. i believe that progress in this area has been weak and that more decisive steps need to be taken.
madam president, i am happy that bosnia and herzegovina is on the verge of the second stage of its path towards the european union, namely the acquisition of the status of candidate country, and i hope that this process of preparing the answers to the questions in the questionnaire, but also the analysis of the answers in the european commission, will then be quick and effective and that with the amendment of the electoral law and the establishment of the coordination mechanism, bosnia and herzegovina will become a candidate for membership by the end of this year at the latest and quickly move to the third stage of formal negotiations. why is that important? this is important for the modernisation and democratisation of the state, for strengthening the legal and political system in which high standards of protection of human rights, the rights of minorities and, what is very important, is the answer of the colleague, the equal participation of all three constituent peoples in the institutions and decision-making processes in bosnia and herzegovina are fostered. by economic strength, bosnia and herzegovina needs information (speakers are deprived of the word).
madam president, the obstruction of the referendum in bosnia and herzegovina by some people from republika srpska, the call for a unitary bosnia and herzegovina by some bosniaks or the unilateral attempt to create a third entity by some croats, are in favor of the destruction of bosnia and herzegovina and the creation of what certainly does not mean a stable bosnia and herzegovina. i may have lost some votes, i may have lost some friends for saying this, but i am convinced that it is not in the interests of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, all those who want and see themselves here in the european union. that's why i'm in favor of a decentralized bosnia and herzegovina where every citizen will be a citizen, but where constituent nations will also be constituent nations. only such a policy can be wise and effective, for the benefit of all in bosnia and herzegovina.
mr president, this annual growth review also highlights as key priorities the promotion of investment, the implementation of structural reforms and the implementation of responsible fiscal policies. we've been pushing for three years and we're seeing positive developments. the winter forecasts are also more optimistic than the autumn forecasts, with exports expected to increase, investment to grow, unemployment to fall and economic growth to pick up in all member states. still, we all want more growth than we've been forecasting. we want to see europe as a global leader. to do this, we need to accelerate decision-making on new business models that enable development, such as the circular economy, digitalisation, new technological solutions. we need to strengthen funding and education systems to encourage innovation and start-ups, enable the creation of scale-ups and give full support to their expansion and growth, link scientific institutions to the economy, be risk-ready and not turn all funding sources such as the efsi into guarantees for stable and secure investments. the measures we are taking together are good, the priorities we have set are necessary, but we need to act faster and respond more concretely to the needs of our businesses and citizens.
madam president, cete has been the subject of unnecessary controversy, and left-wing extremist parties and ngos have deliberately linked it to ttip in order to confuse the public. ceta is at its core a much more transparent and benevolent agreement, opening up a rich market for european companies in a country that poses no threat to europe. there is no black screenplay. there will be problems, of course, but don't we have problems in the european union between member states? of course, we're resolving these issues through renegotiation, and with canada, we can resolve them through a system of litigation. ladies and gentlemen, if we are not able to make a deal with a benign canada, then who are we with? free trade between europe and canada is an opportunity for both sides. for croatia, it's an opportunity to connect even more economically with its diaspora in canada, and i believe we'll be brave and take this opportunity.
mr. president, the dilemma is relatively simple - trudeau or trump, free trade or protectionism? when i heard mr. trump recently talking about how there would be fewer european-made cars on american roads and how he didn't want to see them anymore, it was clear to me that then our employees, our auto workers in croatia and their co-operators, who are small businesses, would be in trouble. because there will be less exports from europe to the united states, and that's why i'm for free trade. that is why i am in favour of this agreement, because i am convinced that agreements like this give greater opportunity, not only to large companies, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises.
mr. president, who are we afraid of? we fear canada, the most european country outside the european continent. more than 75% of canada's population has european roots. 35 million people, which is canada, against a market of 500 million people, which is the european union. i think we really need to ask ourselves who we're afraid of. i'm absolutely sure that free trade within the european union, the removal of barriers within the european union, has brought about a better economic situation within the european union. and croatia has had excellent gdp growth in the last few months, a year, two, and that's precisely because we became a member of the european union. because we took advantage of free trade. so i think free trade is the trade that allows economic growth.
mr president, precisely because free trade has enabled this growth in our economy, the european economy, we have in practice a situation where, with the appropriate regulations and this agreement, the canadian economy will be incorporated, in a way, into the common european economy. multinational companies are also active in the european union, they are ubiquitous. let us not forget that our small and mediumsized enterprises are the most vital and best sector in the european union. this is the opportunity to bring our economies together, and i see it as a great opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the european union and in canada. it is clear that the far left and the far right are against this agreement. maybe it's not even that strange because they have no serious responsibility anywhere, not even here in the european union, because they don't run anywhere, nor are they in power. so, this extreme neo-fascist right and extreme neo-communist left really don't deserve to be followed at this point.
madam president, the european union is facing a growing terrorist threat on a daily basis, and this is primarily due to an extremely liberal approach to migration and asylum policy. when you open the borders to millions of people from other cultural-civilizational circles who don't show a desire to integrate, and you yourself don't do much to integrate them but try to adapt your culture to them, then it's not surprising that at that moment between the two sides of the body there is a spark and a fire. now we must put out that fire, and the first step is to define the criminal offences of terrorism and terrorism-related offences at european level. i also expect that the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states will be made even faster and more efficient, and the reform of nato, which we can read between the lines from donald trump's victory in the us presidential elections, also opens up the possibility for nato to deal more concretely with the fight against terrorism.
madam president, the tragic consequences of the recent terrorist attacks in france, belgium and germany have highlighted many weaknesses in the existing system of border controls in the european union. there is no practice of exchanging data between members. but the proposed combination of systematic controls on documents and persons in relevant databases will ultimately enable synergy in the structure of the system. we should support proposals that allow for greater security for citizens, but we must stress that this proposal will have implications for the technical, technological, administrative and human aspects of border control. especially at the busiest border crossings during the holiday season. it is appropriate to take into account the need to strengthen the capacity for such checks, as the existing technology is under-capacitated and does not allow for the rapid retrieval of biometric data, its verification in existing systems and its storage in new systems. also, some member states still have border controls within schengen. when we add to this the threat by certain schengen members of blocking the borders during the tourist season to those who are not yet schengen members, under the pretext of implementing this proposal, we see unnecessary problems in its implementation. it is a pity that the final version does not contain some of the high-quality proposals parliament adopted in committees. political reality, however, requires a strengthening of the union's security and that is why i will support this proposal. but we should be careful not to make it difficult for those who are entitled to do so to cross the border. this security instrument must not be misused for political purposes.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our first priority is the security of the european citizens. the phenomenon of 'foreign fighters'/'terrorists' calls for answers and more concrete action. today's report is a step in the right direction. i therefore also welcome the introduction of mandatory checks on entry and exit of third-country nationals into the european union and systematic checks on persons enjoying the right of free movement within the european union. detecting and preventing travel to support terrorist acts is a key priority for us. at the same time, i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the guarantee of security in the european union cannot be effective if the measures envisaged exclude member states outside the schengen area but with external borders within the union. in this connection, we must not lose sight of the need to join schengen and to provide full access to the schengen information system database to countries such as bulgaria. the lack of information exchange is an obstacle to strengthening the security of our external borders. in order to continue to successfully manage the protection of the external border of the union, bulgaria needs the full set of tools. let us not forget: ensuring security in europe depends on ensuring security in bulgaria as well. the country is waiting for this positive sign.
madam president, the increased influx of people into the european union is a direct consequence of the wars and the poor economic situation in the neighbouring regions, and this is a reality we will unfortunately have to face for years to come. we all believe in the imminent end of the war in syria, but its effects will surely be felt long after the war itself is over. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the european union's external border controls to include the border controls of the member states, the border controls of the member states and the border controls of the member states. but better late than never! i hope this is just the beginning of a smarter policy, one that will guarantee a higher level of security for all our citizens. if we are unable to do so, we will see a further closure of each country to itself, and the many positive effects of european integration will be nullified overnight.
mr president, what better topic than this to demonstrate that no member state can do it alone, that we must work together, that the problem of migration and terrorism has called us to cooperation. not only were the member states not sharing data, not the provinces not sharing data, but even some city districts were not cooperating with each other, if we remember the recent terrorist attacks. that's a question we all have to ask ourselves. we heard today that we want less bureaucracy, but still more technology and that we must not get involved again in new bureaucracy, new systems. we have a lot of different systems, but we're not working on their interoperability. this is what we want to say to both the commission and the council today - interoperability is essential. we, as the european parliament, have been given the right to co-decide after the lisbon treaty and we have that responsibility, but there is also a greater responsibility on the member states and today the question is what is the schengen system, what is the sis, how do we think about those countries which are member states but which are not part of the schengen system. specifically, i'm from croatia, and we're doing everything we can to meet all the criteria, and we're waiting for the evaluation, and we want to be part of that system so that we can work together on an equal footing and exchange data on an equal footing. this is a topic that perhaps needs to be opened up today, as five countries are still not exchanging data, but as five countries are still not members of this system, i call on both the commission and the council, and the members of certain committees in this parliament, to help us become part of this system so that we can cooperate together and exchange data that is a requirement. i welcome the new directive we're going to adopt tomorrow.
madam president, it is undeniable that robots are the future and that they will make many jobs much easier, and they are already doing so. however, what concerns me about this report, and why i am amending it with the support of a colleague, is the creation of a legal status of an electronic person for robots that make autonomous decisions and act independently of humans. right comes from life. robots are the product of human minds and human hands, but they are objects, not persons. they have no life in them, and we cannot give them the status of an electronic person. we can't put humans and robots on the same level. creating a legal status for robots as a cause-and-effect would mean waiving the liability of their manufacturers or owners. this would be a legal precedent that no one knows how to make even remotely feasible. i urge you to vote for our amendments, against the creation of legal status for robots and to make it clear that robots are not equal to and have equal rights with humans.
mr president, over the period 2014-2020, cohesion policy has been fundamentally transformed, which now requires a change in mindset and working methods at all levels of governance, including horizontal coordination, stakeholder involvement and, to the greatest extent possible, community-led local development. unfortunately, at the beginning of each new programming period we are faced with the same old problems, such as the slow start of some programmes, the lack of management capacity for complex projects, the administrative burden in the member states, over-regulation and, of course, errors in public procurement procedures. i therefore welcome the introduction of common indicators, which would allow the results to be measured and compared with the standard. i believe that work on indicators needs to continue in order to improve the evidence of esi fund funding and optimise project selection. member states, regions and local communities need to be provided with technical, professional and practical support during the application for funding.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commissioner and first of all congratulate my colleague, mr van nistelrooy, on his excellent report. i congratulate my colleague novak for re-launching the resolution on accelerating cohesion policy. we had a similar one in may last year. we warned at the time that there would be cuts in the european budget for cohesion policy, and that is exactly what happened. in 2016, 7.2 billion less, and in 2017, a 25% reduction in the payment budget. these are large, substantial resources that are currently needed by all our member states, regions, cities, municipalities, rural areas for very concrete development projects, employment, growth and development. we want to accelerate economic growth. it's the means to that end. unfortunately, they've shrunk by a full quarter. commissioner, last year in that resolution we asked you to make the action plans and then to monitor their implementation and implementation together, to participate together with you and to work with the member states to speed up implementation. we asked for analyses of the reports of specific problems per member state and then for actions related to education to be carried out in the member states. unfortunately, we have not received any document, no action plan, no report, on that resolution. i hope this isn't another debate and that this resolution will get us all the documents we need.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague van nistelrooy. investments from the european structural investment funds are crucial in reducing economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions. in the last budget period, gdp per capita in the so-called convergence regions increased by 2,2% and 600 000 new jobs were generated. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. any further delay in the implementation of operational programmes would have a negative impact on the planned achievement of the sustainable growth and development objectives. it is equally important to ensure that members achieve the same level of capacity to deal with financial instruments and additional flexibility. the commission should provide the necessary technical assistance and advisory services. i welcome the proposed reinstatement of the withdrawn appropriations in the budget of the european union. cohesion policy reflects one of the union's most distinctive values, solidarity, and should therefore continue to be more efficient in the use of available resources, thematically focused with a better urban-rural balance, simpler procedures and better communication with citizens.
mr. president, the topics on the council next week are really important, from the election of the president for the second half of the mandate, to economic issues, migration and the situation in the western balkans. it's good that the eurozone has been growing for 14 quarters in a row, unemployment is falling, and gdp is stronger in all the members, but the good news should be accompanied by, say, an agreement to strengthen european security mechanisms. we need serious integration of security and defence policy. the union's inability to provide citizens with security may permanently alienate them from the common and direct them exclusively towards national solutions. i welcome the council's discussion of the escalation of tensions in the western balkans. the stability of this region depends on the outcome of the confrontation of two processes: the progress of the country on its path to accession to the european union and the processes that jeopardise it because of interests contrary to the values of euro-integration. our support for the first trial is crucial. but what european perspective are we offering to these countries? for example, the concept of a europe of concentric circles would seriously undermine the european perspective not only in the candidate countries but also in the new member states.
mr. president, the disappearance of migrant children in 21st century europe is an outrageous phenomenon that we should be truly ashamed of. it is our duty to ensure the safety of those we choose to receive, and this terrible phenomenon is yet another indication that we have bitten off more than we can chew. tolerating illegal migration on a massive scale has led to this shameful problem, and without a serious overhaul of our immigration and asylum policies, it will not be resolved. illegal immigrants are brought into our territory by criminals, human smugglers. the more open we are to that kind of migration, the more people want to come that way, and the smugglers' business flourishes. what is often overlooked is that criminals have partners in europe, so they are simply passing on to them a portion of the migrants, who are vulnerable and easy prey, for other criminal activities. let's put an end to illegal immigration and solve this problem once and for all.
madam president, a woman is like a mother and a wife, the pillar of every family, but her crucial role in the family home in no way precludes her professional fulfillment. sadly, many women today face discrimination in the workplace, discrimination that has no place in a civilized world. there is a growing tendency in european politics to equate women and men completely and reduce them to the same thing, which i consider unnatural and counterproductive. we're different, and we need to respect those differences. but where there is no difference, where we do the same job, we should have equal working conditions. and of course, that includes equal pay.
written. since the signing of the treaty of rome in 1957, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in relation to pay, women have continued to fight for equality and equity in the workplace. unfortunately, the reality is different and shows that women earn on average 17% less than men, which later affects the lower retirement by 40%. i have to point out that the pay gap is heavily influenced by gender stereotypes and prejudices. for example, women are often grouped into sectors that have lower average salaries, lower social standing and are considered traditionally female occupations, such as care work. also, women spend an average of 21 hours a week on unpaid work, such as caring for the home and children, while men spend only 9 hours, with long-term effects on women's careers, earnings and pensions. the problem i want to focus on is the weaker continuity of employment among women. women are less likely to be in permanent employment and to sign long-term contracts because of the responsibilities they have with their family and children. increasing social support and adopting a package of measures to reduce the barriers to working parents would enable women to be mothers without fear for their jobs and for the existence of themselves and their families.
mr president, i support these new rules which give the commission greater powers, so that it can actually help member states in negotiating with third countries about energy imports. what i personally think is that ex ante conditions should be extended to imports, i.e. contracts related to the import of electricity, especially if we look at the environment of the european union, neighbouring countries that, although they are members of the energy community, invest in new coal-fired power plants. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 525/2014. i believe that the commission should also participate in negotiations with the member states in such cases, as this threatens competition in the internal market for electricity in the european union.
mr president, i would like to inform the house and the commission that in the czech republic, the minister for industry and trade, mr jan mládek, has been dismissed for failing to protect the interests of consumers and favouring the interests of mobile operators. for example, it did not push enough to abolish roaming charges and enforced an electronic communications law that harmed consumers instead of adequately protecting consumers against mobile service providers. the minister is gone, but the original law, which in my opinion is contrary to european law, to the european directive, still applies. i have called on the commission in writing on several occasions to address this and address the situation in the czech republic and to put pressure on the parliament of the czech republic, on the czech government to change the legislation that will protect the interests of czech consumers as well as consumers across europe. i therefore call on the commission representatives to continue to address this problem and to address the inconsistency of czech law.
mr. president, i understand the public's concern in the republic of croatia about natural gas prices, especially after the liberalization that came with the new changes to the gas market law. however, the latest decision of the government of the republic of croatia to regulate the wholesale price of gas is not in the long-term interest of the republic of croatia, i.e. in the long-term public interest. the reason is that this way investments in renewable energy sources are delayed, and those that should take advantage of local potentials, investments in energy efficiency are delayed and in both cases local jobs are not actually created, which are so necessary to increase the employment of citizens in the republic of croatia. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state and that the state has not provided any evidence to support its claim that the measure is imputable to the state.
mr president, more than 8.5 million jobs in the european union are in the cultural and creative industries, which together account for 4.5% of gdp. employment in these sectors is growing at an average rate of 3.5% per year. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 02 01) and the european schools for the period 2014-2020. the exchange of experience and knowledge and the linking of member states are key. we need to make creative europe more visible and present among our citizens, because it is precisely this programme that makes the difference, that drives european innovation and that positions us as leaders who surprise with ideas and creativity, who shape the future, but on the basis of our cultural heritage and traditions.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, the european union is indeed in a crisis which will be very difficult to overcome if we do not put this community in some realistic frameworks in which it will only solve the problems for which it has the capacity and in which it will respect the principle of subsidiarity. such programmes do the opposite they raise the european union to the level of an all-powerful creation that re-educates citizens, instills new identities and entangles itself in all spheres of society and life. the report recommends that the 'european memory' sub-programme develop a european identity which should be pluralistic, transcultural and open to migration flows and influences from the rest of the world. apart from the fact that i see no need to create artificial identities, i must admit that i am not clear what an identity would be if it were based solely on the political ambitions of the european elites and the needs of a political moment. those citizens who feel primarily european feel that way because, despite our heterogeneity, there is much that unites us, and that is primarily judeo-christian values. they are not mentioned here, although europe as we know it today would not exist without them. it is interesting that such a recommendation is being pursued under the 'european memory' sub-programme. if my memory serves me right, communist yugoslavia also created artificial identities and promoted values that had no foundation in tradition. it ended in disgrace, and it was brought down by the very generation that was systematically brainwashed. we could learn something from that.
mr president, we mark the 10th anniversary of 'europe for citizens', a programme that has its origins in the 1990s and earlier, when the council of europe had similar programmes. i had the opportunity to participate in such programmes, which were then called, for example, the embassy of local democracy, now alda, which is an integral part of this europe for citizens programme. so, these beginnings in which i participated, i have to tell you right from the start that they were great, that they contributed significantly to the development of democracy, that the presence of the council of europe in croatia, in the 90s, in istria, in brtonigli, in one small, bilingual and multicultural municipality, was of extraordinary importance. so i think that the development of projects that we have today in the candidate countries is a great development of that programme. i'd also like to highlight the twinning of cities, and it's a great program. we should also include the fraternization of the regions, because this is also a great way of exchanging experience and creating a stronger european community. however, what i would like to stress here is the thesis of this report, which i of course wholeheartedly support. however, i think we have to turn the page, not say we are fighting against euroscepticism, against populism, but we are fighting to have the truth about europe. the truth about our past, which is also being told here in these booths, and the truth about what lies ahead. because if we want to break up europe, as some people want to break up europe, the european union, we can do it. but someone will reassemble it in 30, 50 or i don't know how many years. so i think it's a crucial moment to speak the truth about europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for this morning’s presentation, and the debate and comments that have been made on a subject which, i must say, is actually very close to my heart. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur, emma mcclarkin, for her excellent report. as has been pointed out, the scale of illegal wildlife trade and the impact on populations of vulnerable plant and animal species are extremely serious. concerted international action is needed to prevent the loss of such species due to greed and ill-informed behaviour. we are focusing today on trade-related aspects of this fight. at the same time, we should recall the importance of eu action in other policy areas as well, such as the provision of support to developing countries through our cooperation work. the report refers to the trade for all communication, which underlines the importance of a values-based trade policy. i welcome the high degree of consensus that i understand exists between the political groups on the need for action to tackle this appalling phenomenon of illegal wildlife trade, an area of economic activity that is clearly contrary to our values. the key multilateral instrument to address wildlife trade is, as we all know, the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites). cites decisions apply to all cites parties and, furthermore, it has the ability to take action if a party fails to follow the rules. support for the effective implementation of cites is a key feature of our trade policy. it is one of the international conventions that must be implemented effectively by beneficiaries of trade preferences under the eu’s gsp+ scheme. commitments on effective implementation of cites are included in the trade and sustainable development chapters of eu free trade agreements and the commission does not hesitate to raise cites issues directly in our dialogues with trade partners as necessary. today’s report also correctly identifies an important role for the private sector in tackling wildlife trafficking, including businesses in the aviation and shipping sectors. the concept of responsible business conduct is one that is strongly supported by the eu and is increasingly reflected in our various trade agreements. a high—value illegal trade such as that of illegal wildlife creates the conditions for corruption, as has been noted. as announced in the trade for all communication and referred to in today’s report, the commission intends to include provisions to address corruption linked to international trade in future trade agreements. the eu also successfully proposed, at the last conference of the parties to cites, a resolution which explicitly calls for dedicated action against corruption linked to wildlife trafficking. i can assure you that the report will be considered very carefully by the commission, including in the ongoing work on the implementation of the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, and today’s timely debate has again highlighted this critical issue at the intersection of environmental and trade policy. as many of you have said, it is imperative that we take action to tackle the scourge of this trade. so thank you to the rapporteur and thank you to those who participated in this morning’s discussion.
written. the continued increase in illegal trade in wildlife is threatening biodiversity, destroying ecosystems, and increasing the number of animals and plants that are becoming extinct or endangered. the wealth of fauna and flora is an integral part of humanity and our planet and should not be underestimated, but concrete measures are needed to enable their conservation and wise management. unfortunately, the european union is a huge market for illegal wildlife products, but also an important transit hub. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. i am sure that economic development and the use of natural resources are two things that can and must go together!
mr president, i would like to give my strongest support to this report because it is about reducing the use of mercury, regulating the use of mercury, especially in the most sensitive area when we talk about children and pregnant women. however, i asked to speak because i had asked the commission at the time what knowledge it had of the mediterranean. living in the adriatic, i'm particularly interested in the adriatic, but i'm interested in the whole mediterranean because these children, these pregnant women, and we all eat fish from the adriatic and from the mediterranean, which many studies show that tuna and shark in particular contain quite high levels of mercury. so in that context, i ask the commission to see how it will further analyse the state and diet of the population that lives and uses fish for its diet.
mr president, if equality between men and women is one of the fundamental values of the european union, and this has been the case since the 1957 treaty of rome, when the principle of equal pay for equal work became part of the treaty of rome, then it is indeed little wonder that today women still earn on average 16% less per hour than men. there is more to it, we heard it here tonight and from our commissioner jurova, but also from other colleagues. i will list just a few more to think about: discrimination in the workplace, which can be both direct and indirect and which is prohibited; the fact that different jobs and different sectors in which women work are paid less than those in which men dominate; the repeatedly mentioned fact that workplace practices and the pay system are such that women do not have equal access to training, employee rewards and funds. in addition, women's jobs and skills are undervalued and are viewed as expressions of innate feminine qualities rather than acquired skills and competencies. we also know that there is a shortage of women in managerial positions, that there are not enough of them in politics and economics, and that only one third of women are scientists, engineers in the european union. gender roles and traditions influence career choices and educational paths. and another reason, or cause, is the balancing of work and family obligations. it's been talked about a lot. women work shorter and often full-time jobs, and the pay gap widen even more when women become mothers. what i would like to call on once again today is that we respect the fundamental value of the european union, which is equality between men and women, that we finally implement the 15 directives we have in this area, and i believe we will succeed soon, but we must be solidarity and work together on everything. the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
question about the lifting of the blue card. dear colleague, i'm interested in whether you might know why croatia has not yet ratified the istanbul convention? the party you're from has been in power for over a year, the current prime minister said in november last year that he would move forward with ratification, but he's faced great resistance within his own party. can you explain to me what's really going on and why it hasn't been done?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. first of all, we could have had this debate in croatia, we didn't have to come to brussels to have this debate. in any case, we are in favor of ratifying the istanbul convention. a working group has been formed at the level of the ministry of family and demographic renewal and i believe that in a short time after the consideration, the istanbul convention will be ratified because what we are really fighting against is violence against women. i regret that the previous government, which was in power for four years, did not ratify the istanbul convention, and the excuse was that it was a huge expense. so i believe that we will succeed in solving violence against women by ratifying the istanbul convention.
mr president, back in march last year the european commission started the process of ratifying the istanbul convention, but despite this the council is holding back progress. in the european union, seven women die from violence every day. an interesting survey conducted in croatia showed that nearly half of the students believe that a woman can be hit if she shows more attention to her friends than to her partner, if she is not obedient, or if she does not take care of her partner as she should. really scary. we have a 100% increase in domestic violence-related crimes. we can't wait a day. i've included amendments on sexual and reproductive health in the gender report. on the one hand, we don't educate young people about sex education, and on the other hand, we prohibit abortion. in poland, which has one of the most restrictive abortion laws, 80,000 to 120,000 abortions are performed annually. the ban on abortion does not end the practice but makes it the privilege of the wealthy who can afford to go to another country and have an abortion. women should be given access to the labour market, health education, protection from sexual and other forms of violence and access to contraception, not told what to do with their bodies. i am proud that the constitutional court of the republic of croatia has decided that abortion should be allowed. i think it's necessary to regulate the appeal of conscience so that each hospital has a minimum number of doctors who can perform this procedure.
mr president, we have before us another report that encourages national governments and the european commission to engage in social engineering and openly calls on member states whose citizens do not share the majority of left-wing ideas. i don't know where this house gets its authority from because most of the proposals in the report are outside its purview. the report imputes that the necessary cuts in public spending are a deliberate blow to women's rights and, by the way, asks the legislator to interfere in family relations by regulating the distribution of household chores. soon, it seems, a man and woman will have to seek permission from the state to run their household, and i would not be surprised if such a zealous legislator prescribes some special record keeping of hours under the family roof. the administration needs to control everything, it needs to be involved in everything, and only for abortion, as the report recommends, we need to have a "simple approach". as if it's not a new human life and as if a woman doesn't need help and support even in those moments. it's really scary.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleagues ursuna and moody on their efforts to recognise the problems of women and to encourage not only the european parliament but also the member states to empower them economically and politically. economic empowerment has been a frequent topic of conversation today, about how much women are underpaid compared to men. but we forgot the fact that one day these women will also retire, and that this very underpayment will cause them to have a pension that is 40 percent lower than that of men, and they will fall into the category of those citizens who will be poor, who will not be able to provide themselves with energy, who will not be able to provide themselves with food. the european union is unfortunately only at 50%, statistics say, only 50% of the member states have ratified the istanbul convention. if we could ratify the paris agreement in six months, why were we still unable to ratify the istanbul convention when the european commission proposed it a year ago?
mr president, i would like to welcome the initiative of the high representative, mrs mogherini, who has recently been to the western balkans. she's been to every country in the western balkans. i would like to welcome what commissioner hahn is doing and i am glad that the european council has also discussed the situation in the western balkans. but i can't help but feel that we're doing it all again after it's become clear that the balkans are on the verge of some kind of explosion. for 25 years i've been following what's going on in the balkans. i've been in full, shall we say, politics for all 25 years. i have followed what the european union has done and i regret to say that the european union is still not fully aware that the countries of the western balkans are all sick because they have a virus, a virus of nationalism that must be prevented in time. if he's sick, we should prevent, not treat when it's too late.
mr. president, in the western world, the trend of maximum limitation on the acquisition and possession of weapons has long since taken hold. the state is disarming loyal citizens who legally own guns, making them easy targets for criminals and terrorists who buy their weapons on the black market and knowingly break the law. guns don't kill, they kill people. the role of the state is to ensure that these weapons end up in the hands of people who are in no way a threat to the environment and to regularly check whether they are still physically and mentally fit to use weapons responsibly. it is absurd that at a time of growing terrorist threat we are disarming our own citizens. the police and the military cannot be omnipresent, so i don't think it would be wrong for some citizens to be armed, trained in the use of weapons, and ready to help themselves and others in extreme situations.
the following is the list of the clubs that have been awarded the contracts: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans, vice-president of the commission, i would first like to thank mrs bonafè and all the other shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation between our teams, which has helped us to have the opportunity today to debate and vote on the more ambitious objectives set by the european parliament. why vote today for these more ambitious targets in recycling, why go for a lower percentage of waste disposal. i'll try to explain it with the example of a cartoon. wall-e is an oscar-winning film that shows how a tiny robot, the only one of its kind left, collects waste, packs it and puts it in pyramids. will the legacy of our civilization be the pyramids of waste, and we know what the legacy of the egyptian civilization was. and look at this little robot, it recognizes the circular economy because the things that it recognizes that it can fix, that it recognizes have some other value, it takes to its shelter, it fixes them there and it enjoys these remnants of our civilization legacy. and it actually begs the question of where are the people in that movie. people fled into space because they used the entire surface of planet earth to deposit waste to build these pyramids. the question is how do we escape into space? it seems that the solution to this problem is donald trump. a few days ago, he announced that he was reviving the space program and that he intended to send men to the moon. but along the way, we must not forget that in addition to this recycling, in addition to this disposal, we throw away too much food, we dump our waste into the seas and oceans, we forget that we have biodegradable waste from which we can produce energy and compost, we forget that this ambitious circular economy proposal, these targets, actually means creating our local jobs and in all those member states that are protesting, it actually means creating local jobs. so i urge you not to listen to the messages that are coming in to reduce those ambitions but to vote for more recycling targets because more delay, more reduction in recycling targets will lead to... (the president interrupts the speaker...)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not support this legislative package, europe will continue to throw away, burn and bury billions of euros a year. as rapporteur for the report on food waste, i particularly welcome the adoption of a hierarchy and a definition of food waste. during the vote, we can take another step to reduce the shameful amount of food that is thrown away. we can lay the foundation for binding reduction quotas that will apply across the union. of course, when the conditions are right, in the form of reliable statistics. public opinion supports this, citizens want this and it is the right moment for the union to show that it can solve this great economic, environmental and moral problem. circular economy is perhaps a fancy name for something that seems simple as common sense. waste is not garbage but a resource that our states and citizens can make money on with the added bonus of conservation. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleague bonafe for her excellent work.
mr. president, our reality is still far from all of our desires. i strongly support the logic of the circular economy, trying to prevent food waste, to eliminate, as much as possible, all the pollution that we have in our seas, our oceans, in the baltic sea, in the adriatic sea, in the mediterranean sea and everywhere else where we have such pollution. but what i want to emphasize on this occasion is this: croatia is a country that, unfortunately, has a very low recycling rate. however, there is one county in croatia, istrian county, which i had the honour of leading for 12 years, which has largely solved waste management by building a regional waste management centre. but now, because the european union has recently funded this regional waste management centre with 30 million euros in grants, we have some changes in government policy when it comes to waste management. we don't want to penalize the ones who were the best.
written. due to the european union's dependence on imported raw materials, the key challenge is to keep as many resources as possible within the union and to step up efforts to transition to a circular economy. it offers great opportunities and potential for local economies, and all involved would benefit. this would result in significant savings for all consumers and would reduce overall annual greenhouse gas emissions. greenhouse gas emissions could be reduced by between two and four percent per year. the circular economy should be an integral part of climate policy. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. it is necessary to define a clear regulatory framework at eu level. in order to achieve the credibility and comparability of the results of the member states, the definition of municipal waste should be aligned with that established by eurostat and the oecd for statistical reasons. the definition, combined with a harmonised single calculation method for all member states, must be based on data from the final recycling process and supported by an effective reporting system to prevent the disposal of waste landfilled or incinerated from being identified as recycled waste. reuse and recycling are key to creating a new policy to promote sustainability, where waste is transformed from a problem to a resource.
mr. president, 600 million tons of waste we lose every year, and we can turn it into jobs, into money. the circular economy is a good tool to solve the waste problem. the targets are high, i agree, but if we don't set high targets, we won't achieve them. in particular, when it comes to croatia, it is very difficult to meet the target of only 10% waste by 2030. but in the long run, we have to make a commitment that only when we have no alternative waste is dumped. the european union depends on raw materials and we import raw materials all the time. we need to turn waste into a resource and conserve resources in the european union. i therefore support those who say that waste has ceased to be our problem and has become our opportunity, but of course, provided that we manage it properly, and that is what we must all insist on, and my message is: waste is an opportunity, let us keep resources, let us preserve resources in the union.
mr president, mr commissioner, this us policy is not new, it has been in place since 1984 and is fully in line with the international conventions the programme of action adopted at the international conference on population and development held in cairo and the beijing declaration and platform for action. the key to these documents is that abortion is not a method of family planning and the money is being withheld exclusively from organizations that promote abortion as a method of family planning. the funds have not disappeared, nor have they been reduced, as is wrongly stated, they are still there and will be received by organizations that deal with women's and children's health. abortion to save the life of the mother is not subject to this policy. also, abortion in cases of rape or incest is not covered by this ban, nor is post-abortion abortion. there is no financial void to be filled when it comes to funding family planning services. the financial vacuum is created only in relation to abortion as a method of family planning, which is prohibited by law in most developing countries. so if ngos are following the law in those countries and not performing illegal abortions, they should not be harmed by this policy. i am absolutely against the idea of the eu financially supporting organisations that promote abortion as a method of family planning in third countries. the money from the european union should be allocated to organizations that care about the health of women and children, not to those who openly promote abortion as a method of family planning.
madam president, the union's human rights policy has always been an important part of the community's overall political and economic activities at the global level. the union must show the rest of the world that it has reached a level of civilization where human life is sacred and that it cannot allow so many people to die every day from incurable diseases, famine and war. in harmony with this, we should also be more committed to the life of the unborn and to helping them to be born in a safe environment. we will not be able to do this solely through aid programmes, which often fail to deliver the expected results, but above all by stimulating economic activity in less developed countries and promoting free trade. we must not be blind to the fact that european companies are also exploiting the institutional weaknesses of these countries to make extra profits and thus contribute to a chaos in which human life is not valued enough. only by lifting ourselves out of the moral morass can we help the less developed rise out of the economic morass.
mr. president, it's good, we finally have the announcement of good legislation that should really protect the health of people, animals and plants. but let's not run away from the truth and the fact that we are still witnessing big things when it comes to the health of our citizens and the nutrition of our citizens, when it comes to animal welfare or plant welfare and everything that happens in the field and everything that comes to us in the store and everything that comes to us on the table. i'm all for getting this kind of global legislation because we desperately need it, but i'm also for something else, not just the logic of punishment and control, but i'm also for the positive logic. let's support, but seriously and responsibly and to the end, financially support those areas that want the health of their citizens, their guests, the welfare of animals, the welfare of plants. areas, regions, cities that want it. we have these opportunities, we can create a synergy of financial resources. let's make this a good example of good practice. the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr jakovčić, croatia has recently been absent twice in the standing committee, in the commission's standing committee on the impact of herbicides and pesticides on human health and on gmos. so the first time it abstained on glyphosate, the second time it abstained on gmos, even though it's the official policy of the croatian government that there are no gmos in croatia. i'm curious about your position on the regulation that you said is needed both globally and at the european union level, and how does that reflect on croatia?
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for your question, mr. representative. let me be very clear. croatia has shown by this vote, that is, the government has shown that it does not adhere to what is the official policy in croatia. because we're not for gmos. i'll say this for myself, as an active and true farmer, i really think glyphosate can do more harm than good. we'll get rid of some weeds, but we'll certainly introduce a lot of unhealthy things into the plants that are around what it means to use glyphosate. and i would like to say this in the end: if you remember, i was the mayor of istria and we were the first to declare istria county a gmo-free region in croatia. that tells you everything i think about gmos.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done, because it is a really complex package of regulations to ensure the quality of food from producer to consumer. the agri-food sector is the second largest sector in the european union. it employs 40 million people who produce 750 billion euros of new value every year. the european union has the highest food safety standards in the world, but recent scandals involving, for example, horse meat in europe and contaminated chicken and eggs in croatia show serious weaknesses in the existing legislative framework. the european union's legislation is fragmented into 70 different regulations. in addition to the increased control of disease transmission, too much room is left for malpractice in shops as customers are threatened by cheap imported products of questionable quality and nutritional value. the paradox is that domestic products are thoroughly tested while products imported from the rest of the european union have a single health certificate, often without coverage. the sale of defective products between member states is absolutely prohibited in the single market. the costs of controls, however high, must not be used as an excuse for endangering the health and life of consumers.
mr president, competition should not only exist between economic operators but also between member states. unfortunately, in this house, competition between members is predominantly seen as an unfair practice, and most colleagues advocate tax harmonization that will cement the status quo and permanently leave the less developed members behind the developed ones. why do i say that? because it is quite clear that member states that lack a developed infrastructure, a large internal market and a highly skilled workforce have difficulty attracting investment in any other way than through incentive tax policies. if we take away their ability to attract investors with lower taxes, we condemn them to economic and demographic extinction.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the members very much for their comments and views. we definitely share the same concerns and worries, and of course our determination is common. there is no doubt that we have to do more. but make no mistake: as my dear friend has already mentioned, the european union is doing its part and we will, of course, do more. but let me remind you of something critical. this is also a development crisis. as some of you have already mentioned, we need to address the root causes of fragility, conflict, poor governance, non-governance and the rule of law. otherwise our response will never achieve sustainable results. the european union trust fund for africa and the external investment plan, as new instruments, are aimed precisely at covering this dimension. we do not, of course, have any illusions, but i think we are already moving in the right direction in order to address the root causes. in parallel, what matters in any humanitarian crisis is that humanitarian organisations have immediate and full access to do their job and deliver aid. repeated violations of international humanitarian law are simply unacceptable. the governments of these countries have a primary responsibility to care for the basic needs of their populations and to allow aid organisations to support them in this obligation. to conclude, let me say that this human suffering is not inevitable. almost all these crises are manmade. above all – as some of you have already said – they need political solutions. the european union has a responsibility to put its weight behind efforts to address the root causes of these crises, be they driven by conflict, climate change, population growth or other causes. once again, thank you very much for your support in this very difficult situation. my personal promise is that we have to continue in this way in order to alleviate the suffering of the people and to save lives.
written. nearly 1.4 million children are at immediate risk of death from severe acute malnutrition, and more than 100 million people worldwide are critically malnourished. famine is particularly widespread in nigeria, somalia, south sudan, and yemen, where conflict and drought have impeded food production. wars in yemen, nigeria, and south sudan have devastated these areas, and drought in east africa and somalia has destroyed agriculture and left millions of people in poverty. reports and information coming in from these countries warn that the food crisis, which has already claimed hundreds of lives, could be the most devastating in decades. in nigeria, nearly 250,000 children under the age of five will suffer from malnutrition this year. the situation in that country is worsening and because of the violence of boko haram, the country has lost agricultural production, the market has been disrupted, and food prices are unaffordable. similarly, yemen, where civil war has raged for two years, and oil-rich south sudan, where fighting has ethnically divided the country and has been torn apart by war since 2013, are experiencing similar situations. we need to react as quickly as possible, because time is running out for millions of people.
first of all, congratulations to president tusk on his re-election. you've made a request that you will strongly stand for solidarity, and that is our core value. i would like to highlight two aspects of the council's recent conclusions. first, the neighborhood policy. security, stability and peace in our neighbourhood are closely linked to our security and stability in europe. this is why it is important that we as the european union maintain a leading, active role. two examples: the agreement with algeria will allow us to deepen our strategic cooperation to overcome our common challenges and provide concrete responses. the western balkans are very important. now we need to show unity and reaffirm our unequivocal support for the european perspective of the region. we need to increase the visibility of our actions through concrete initiatives and projects, not just through political declarations. the second aspect is related to migration. the agreement on the proposal for an entry/exit system by june 2017 is an essential element, but it is important to avoid fragmentation of security by excluding from the scope countries such as bulgaria, which, although not part of schengen, are key to safeguarding the security of the union's external borders. finally, the debate on the future of europe has begun. let's get as many citizens as possible whose opinions are heard. open and honest dialogue is the way to counter populism and preserve our european project.
mr president, the european council recognised that stability in the western balkans was in question and that more attention was needed to ensure that the region would not become a theatre of conflict and unwanted policies again in the future. i welcome this approach, but i fear that if we are dishonest with the countries of the region, we will achieve the opposite effect. the same thing happened with turkey, which we had promised for a long time to join, but on which there was never a consensus within the european union. if we want to be honest and have a thorough relationship with this region on a solid basis, we cannot ignore that in one of the countries, now a member of the union, a defensive war was being fought and the aggressor was a country that is applying for membership of the european union. i hope that the commission and the council will not turn a blind eye to the fact that this country has not fulfilled any of the promises given, which makes it more than obvious that it does not want to adopt european values, does not want to implement the necessary reforms and therefore cannot yet become a member of the european union.
written. all the discussions on the future of europe must start from one simple fact: what is our real aim? when we agree on the goal and what the future eu really should be, it is much easier to define the path to that goal! so first we decide whether we really want the military, energy, digital, fiscal and other components of the future union, and then we decide how to achieve it. the question of europe in multiple speeds is then an unnecessary question because we know where we are going. until we know where we're going, every road will be a dead end.
written. marking the 60th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome that established it, is an opportunity to debate how to shape the eu in the 21st century the most important project in all of european history. the five possible scenarios recently presented to the ep by commission president juncker do not close the number of possible options, but represent a broad framework for future agreements. the atmosphere and direction of the debate will also be influenced by two important events that will also take place this march: the results of the parliamentary elections in the netherlands and the expected activation of article 50 of the teu on the uk's withdrawal from the eu. croatia, as the youngest member, is least suited to the concept of a 'europe of concentric circles' that would limit the benefits of membership.
mr. president, the terrorist attacks in brussels have left serious security, political and psychological repercussions. last year's attacks not only caused mass suffering and destruction, but also sent a political message because brussels is the capital of the european union, the seat of nato, but at the same time, in terms of security, it is recognised as the soft belly of europe. the attacks, unfortunately, have not stopped. they repeated themselves in nice and berlin. almost every day, we read about attacks that are stopped at the last minute. terrorism in europe is still at work, which we cannot and must not ignore. europe is facing not only a security crisis but also problems of a military-security as well as a political-social nature. we must finally confront the deterioration of the general security situation within and beyond our borders. first of all by helping member countries to cooperate better and exchange data, but also by stabilising conflicting political communities in the neighbourhood. the circumstances today are such that we must agree on a much more serious cooperation in the field of defence. security and defence must not remain the weakest link in european integration, as failure to provide citizens with security will only cause further alienation from the european project. a year ago, brussels was a completely closed city. since then, the dilemma has become more and more whether the european union will succeed in maintaining openness as one of its fundamental values or whether it will gradually slide into the state of 'fortress europe'. i fear that many european politicians today would give a hasty answer to this question.
madam president, after the recent terrorist attacks in belgium, germany and france and a series of those thwarted at the last minute by the intelligence community and law enforcement, i think it's more than obvious that there is a problem that is much more than the occasional manifestation of individual insanity. on our soil, we are being fought against by fanatical soldiers of an unrecognized criminal entity known as the islamic state. whether i like to admit it or not, europe is at war, and on its own soil, and that requires certain measures to guarantee the safety of our citizens. the security services, police and military of the member states need to cooperate and exchange information even more intensively, in particular on returnees from the middle east battlefields who pose a particular threat. although they are citizens of the union, they have consciously and uncoercedly chosen to take the criminal side and have fought against everything that this community represents and should be treated accordingly.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr gahler and mr gonzález pons, for a very good report and good cooperation. the main finding of the report is that there are no legal obstacles to the development of a european common security and defence policy, and the main recommendations of the report are the formation of a european defence agency and permanent structured cooperation as the european union's original agencies and institutions on which the common security and defence policy would rest, the creation of european integrated forces and a joint civil and military command that would be permanent. but i would like to point out the limitations that exist, limitations of a legal nature which are not the limitations of the european treaties but of the international world order, and that is that even if we had achieved all the objectives that we have set out in this report, the european union would not have been able to intervene even in its neighbourhood, in those areas that particularly concern it, because it would not have been able to get the consent of the security council, the members of the security council because it would have touched their strategic interests. this is in fact the greatest legal limitation to the development and effectiveness of the common european security and defence policy. i therefore particularly welcome and emphasise the part of the report which calls on the member states to act in the context of the reform of the united nations, and in particular in the context of the reform of the united nations security council, so that the european union can intervene in areas which concern it, such as the middle east, north africa, areas where crises particularly affect the european union, and there is no possibility of intervening and acting in those areas.
mr. president, let me be clear about this. until this european union has a clear defence force, a solid security policy and military strength, we will not be a fully respected partner practically anywhere. we may have good political ideas, we may have peace initiatives, but without serious military force the european union will not be a credible world player to the end. syria is the best example. russia and the united states are at war in syria. they're talking about war and peace, and we're feeling the crisis in syria and we're falling apart because of it. the migrant crisis is tearing us apart. so we must be credible to the end in order to really take advantage of what lies ahead, which is to defend the interests of our citizens and to create a real security and defence union.
madam president, i welcome the report by mrs pietikäinen and mr paet. i believe that this is a major step forward towards an integrated european union policy on the arctic and that this policy is essential if the european union is to take a leading position in the negotiations in the arctic council because the preservation of the arctic is a global priority and is not just a regional fact or a regional problem to which we must pay attention. what i would also point out is that we've probably all seen satellite images from nasa or other agencies showing that the arctic ice surface is shrinking with age. and we really shouldn't see this as an opportunity for business that wants to see this as a gift that they can continue to explore and exploit oil and gas. and that's why i'm advocating a moratorium on oil and gas exploration and exploitation in the arctic to preserve it for the future and to actually ensure the sustainable development of countries that would be threatened by sea level rise.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you to everyone here this evening for this report first of all, and for this evening’s debate which has been very valuable and which we will take fully into account as we implement our arctic policy communication. just a couple of comments on that if i may. the eu-arctic stakeholder forum has now been set up and has met on a number of occasions. we are also continuing to engage with arctic indigenous people and local communities. the next arctic stakeholder forum session and annual dialogue meeting will be organised in the context of the eu high-level event on arctic policy, which is being organised together with vice-president mogherini in finland in mid-june. in terms of international ocean governance, and in particular the ongoing work on an international agreement to prevent unregulated fisheries in the central arctic ocean, the commission hopes a deal on such an agreement might be reached in reykjavik as early as next week. another point i would like to draw attention to is the international polar code which entered into force in january. it creates mandatory provisions covering safety and pollution prevention measures that apply to ships navigating through polar waters, and also includes guidance on implementation, design, construction, environmental protection, equipment, training and operational matters. we are making progress on environmental policies that will contribute to the protection of the arctic environment. we have just allocated funding to a project to address the problem of black carbon in the arctic. on oil and gas, there is not, of course, any oil and gas exploration in the eu arctic. offshore activities are taking place in the territorial waters of third countries. we will continue to call for the highest standards both of accident prevention and environmental control. we can and we must remain vigilant and we need to continue to drive forward our shared objectives in close partnership with all the arctic stakeholders.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it is a great pleasure to be with you once again. you have been here all day since 9.00 in the morning, not least to discuss the 2016 report on montenegro. as you know, the western balkans featured on the agenda of the foreign affairs council and the european council last week, and on both occasions member states reconfirmed the european union’s engagement with the region, including through deepening political and the economic ties. last week the european council conclusions clearly reaffirmed the unequivocal support for the european perspective of the western balkans. in this spirit, the presidency is committed to advancing the enlargement process in full respect of the basic principles of conditionality and on merit. montenegro remains the frontrunner in the accession process and it made further progress last year. we welcome, in particular, the latest accession conference of 13 december, where it was possible to open two further negotiating chapters: chapter 11 on agriculture and rural development and chapter 19 on social policy and employment. with a view to advancing negotiations, the council continues to pay close attention to montenegro’s progress in the rule of law, which, as per the negotiating framework, determines the overall pace of montenegro’s negotiation process. as the report rightly points out, the legal framework and institutional set-up in this area are largely complete. progress has been registered, but further implementation remains key, building on the results achieved so far and also leading to a strengthened and sustainable track record, in particular in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the need for a continued focus on fundamental reforms is also something clearly expressed in your draft resolution and in the commission’s report. they spell out important challenges for montenegro to ensure freedom of expression and media freedom, to pursue public administration reform, and to strengthen the independence of institutions. on the economic side, montenegro needs to take measures to ensure fiscal sustainability, to control public, and to improve the trade balance and the business environment. advances on the rule of law can make a significant contribution in this regard. whilst progress has been made, there are still a number of reforms which montenegro needs to carry out. 2017 will be an important year for montenegro’s euro-atlantic integration, and we encourage the country to build on the progress already made and to take the reform process forward. the process should not be considered merely as being an accession requirement, but a means leading to a more stable, prosperous and fair country. in this respect, one cannot over emphasise the importance of taking ownership of these reforms, which first and foremost are in the interest of, and to, the montenegrin people. we are well aware that montenegro is currently facing a difficult political situation. it remains important for the government to maintain political commitment to the reform process and for all political parties to re-engage in a constructive dialogue, notably within the parliament. the council also closely followed montenegro’s parliamentary elections in october and took good note of the overall positive assessment by the osce. alleged irregularities in the elections need to be investigated, along with follow-up to the recommendations by international election observers. the clear messages in your draft resolution are well appreciated. i would also like to highlight two points regarding montenegro’s external relations. in the area of foreign policy, the country remains a reliable partner to the european union. let me use this opportunity to strongly commend montenegro for its consistent cooperation in this regard and in particular for its full alignment with the eu common foreign and security policy. montenegro also continues to play a positive role in further developing regional cooperation and in advancing good neighbourly relations. in light of the overall situation in the western balkans, we should continue to highlight this point, as it actively contributes to the stabilisation of the very same region. in summary, montenegro continues to make steady progress in the eu accession negotiations and maintains its good cooperation with the eu and its neighbours in the region. looking ahead, we hope to move the accession negotiations forward under our presidency by opening and provisionally closing those negotiating chapters which are technically ready with montenegro.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like to start, in particular on behalf of my colleague, commissioner hahn, by extending thanks to the rapporteur, mr tannock, for this very well-balanced report. indeed, may i extend my thanks to all here who contributed to this important work. as we have been hearing, montenegro has made steady progress on its eu path. rule of law is the fundamental element that will continue to determine the pace of the accession negotiations. the revised legal and institutional framework is largely in place and now needs to deliver further results. montenegro is strongly committed to regional cooperation, as ministers noted, and has good relations with its neighbouring countries. in the western balkan context that is no minor achievement. let me also reiterate our praise for montenegro’s complete alignment with the eu’s common foreign and security policy, as mr borg said. montenegro is a country with a clear eu perspective and, undoubtedly, the front-runner in the eu integration process with, as we have heard, 26 chapters open for negotiation, two of which are provisionally closed. opinion polls show overwhelming support for eu membership, so in many ways montenegro is, indeed, the good news story in the region, if the rapporteur will forgive me for pinching his expression. there are, of course, certain challenges, and it is fitting to discuss these with you here this evening in a parliamentary setting. unfortunately, in montenegro, parliament is half empty, as the opposition is boycotting the work of this key institution. we share the concerns already expressed over this, and the commission’s repeated message to all the political parties has been to work out a compromise and to return the political debate to parliament, where it belongs. a boycott is not a sustainable solution, even less for a negotiating country. as montenegro stands at the doorstep of nato, the external pressure on it is mounting, but we trust that the montenegrin leaders in government and in opposition will be wise enough to put their differences aside and to work together to preserve the progress made in euro-atlantic integration over the years – in fact, since their independence. the october 2016 parliamentary elections were held under a substantially revised legal framework, and our assessment is based on the osce/odihr report. we now expect all political groups to return to constructive engagement and to work together to implement the odihr recommendations on further election reforms. inclusive dialogue is crucial for elections and eu-related reforms, as well as the overall modernisation of the country. furthermore, we expect the relevant domestic authorities swiftly and transparently to conclude the investigation of the election day events, in accordance with domestic laws and international standards. we all, i am sure, look forward to the easing of political tensions and the continuation of the eu integration process, most notably the creation of a sustainable track record in the fight against corruption and organised crime. fiscal imbalances should also be addressed in a determined way by implementing the approved budget and adopting a fiscal consolidation plan. last week’s european council unequivocally reaffirmed the european perspective of the western balkans, so this is a good moment to build momentum. a balanced economic environment and strong sense of rule of law will bring the necessary business opportunities and investment to montenegro. the eu is assisting with technical advice and financial investment, so that the journey towards eu membership can already bring benefits to montenegrin citizens, ranging from students to entrepreneurs, from farmers to consumers.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking mr tannocku for his good cooperation and for the measured report on the progress of montenegro in 2016. montenegro is a developed country. it has passed many laws and created institutions, but it still has a lot to do in key areas such as the judiciary, public administration, the fight against corruption, media freedom, which shows how demanding the process of a country's accession to the european union is, and that demandingness can discourage that country, but also the european union on this very important path, because it is about the fundamental transformation of a country and of the whole of society. so it's not easy at all. montenegro also has special problems and difficulties, and that is the division within the country itself about the fundamental issues facing the country and, of course, such divided and weak countries are easy prey, fertile ground for negative external influences. given the situation, not only in montenegro, but also the deteriorating situation in the entire western balkans, which means unresolved issues for years, internal divisions, blockades, increased involvement of countries which, in my opinion, do not do well for the western balkans, it is particularly important that the european union has a stronger, more engaged presence in montenegro as well as in the other western balkan countries. this is in the interest not only of these countries but also of the european union, because the western balkans is a geographical area of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating rapporteur tannocku on a very well balanced report which clearly highlights that montenegro has made excellent progress in its accession negotiations with the european union. at the moment, montenegro is the most advanced candidate country and shows sincere aspirations to join the european union. in addition to messages of support for the progress made so far, i would like to stress the importance of establishing an effective and independent judiciary, and of fighting corruption and organised crime as key reforms in meeting the membership criteria. the union's macro-financial assistance should be focused on the following priority areas: i would like to take this opportunity to express my concern about the influence of non-european third countries on internal political processes and foreign policy priorities in montenegro as well as in other countries in the region, which may further endanger the peace and stability of the western balkans. the european union must become more visible in the western balkans in order to strengthen the aspirations of montenegro, but also of other countries on their path to european integration. it's the only way to peace in the region, but also in europe.
madam president, the situation in the western balkans is indeed worrying. i think we have a consensus on that score. there are many tensions between the countries of the western balkans and within the countries between different ethnic, religious and political communities. the external influences of russia and turkey are also strong, and the european union is rather reserved. all of this adds to the complexity of the situation, which can escalate into conflict. the eu has also made significant progress in the area of the rule of law, including in the area of human rights. we know that the pro-european coalition is in power and has a narrow majority. we know that majority can be easily questioned. we also witnessed an attempted coup d'état in the last parliamentary elections. the pro-serbian opposition in montenegro wants to block montenegro's european path and so we should not be surprised by their boycott in parliament. we know that there are still certain problems in montenegro in the area of justice, that corruption and crime still pose a serious problem, and others that are mentioned in the report. but i wonder what our role is in the accession process? can we be passive observers of the process? can we be satisfied with the engagement so far... (the end of the speech is not clearly audible.)
madam president, montenegro is a good example in the western balkans. a good example when we talk about good neighbourly cooperation with other countries, when we talk about minority rights because croats, bosniaks and albanians are involved in the running of the state and in the processes in the state itself. a good example when we talk about overall regional stability, what it means for example the adriatic specifically, what it means the relations that are important, that are indicated here, relations with serbia and of course, far from that this country has no problems, of course it has them, but the clear euro-atlantic aspiration that is today in montenegro is a prevailing good indicator. that's why i'm calling on the opposition to participate in these fateful moments for the future of this country, to participate in the work of the parliament because the european union will accept montenegro.
madam president, montenegro is clearly the most advanced candidate country for membership of the european union according to indicators. however, montenegro, like other countries in the region when they joined, shows a lack of political will to implement the eu's public policy, especially in the areas of environmental protection and public health. and here i want to highlight three key, black points that exist in montenegro. it's a combination of aluminum podgorica with pools of red mud. we know how dangerous they are to the environment and the immediate threat, should there be an ecological disaster, and lake skadar. we're talking about the nissi steel mill that has been polluting the air of its citizens for decades. we're talking about the plevlja coal-fired power plant, which the montenegrin government has no will to modernize and is still planning to build a new unit. so i call on the european commission to not only formally, but financially, technically, help the government of montenegro because these same montenegrin citizens will decide tomorrow in a referendum when they will join the european union and they must see the benefits of that membership.
madam president, it has taken a long time for democracy to mature and we cannot expect e-democracy to replace the current system overnight and it is not wise to immediately attack e-voting, or the highest level of decision-making in the current democracy as a replacement for the existing voting system. i'll just give two examples where e-democracy could have much bigger effects. so, first is the smart city. we have a concept where citizens can, through greater participation right at the local level, have more say in deciding what will be invested in their environment, how the city will actually be run and how the traffic in the city will be managed in order to preserve public health and the environment. secondly, people with special needs or reduced mobility are important. e-democracy allows them to participate more effectively and more easily in democratic decision-making at their local, regional and national level.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, i would like to thank mr affronte for his constructive report. the collection of data and their use to produce better data is of particular importance in the fisheries sector. if we want to ensure the right to work for fishermen and catalyse economic growth and job preservation in coastal areas, while effectively protecting marine resources, we must of course rely on relevant data. as a representative of croatia, i am concerned that we still do not have complete data on the state of fish stocks in the adriatic. the data available from different sources are largely mutually exclusive, making it difficult to adopt policies that strike a good balance between the interests of fishermen and the protection of resources. i therefore call on the authorities at all levels to regulate this issue with as little regulation as possible, to ensure simple data collection that will not represent a burden for fishermen and to facilitate the exchange between the competent authorities. relevant data are the key to good fisheries policies.
madam president, i have worked with institutes operating in the adriatic, particularly in rovinj, but also in trieste, split and ancona, and i must stress that i am fully aware of the importance of collecting scientific data, despite the fact that sometimes these institutes have conflicting data and conflicting assessments. scientific cooperation in sensitive seas such as small closed seas, and the adriatic is such a small, closed sea, part of a larger sea, the mediterranean, which is also unfortunately not sufficiently explored and we do not have enough data as regards the whole mediterranean, and so i welcome this proposal and welcome the results we expect. i propose that we also collect data on the impact of fishing and fisheries on tourism to see what traditional fishing means and to see what the health of marine organisms is for us.
mr president, i would like to ask mr verhofstadt, who is celebrating the very good result in the netherlands, to go out and, rather than celebrating here, celebrate outside. gospodine predsjedniče, htio bih prije svega jasno reći da danas u svijetu još uvijek imamo, gotovo svugdje, pa i u europskoj uniji, nažalost, kršenja ljudskih prava. naravno da ujedinjeni narodi upravo o tome trebaju itekako ozbiljno povesti računa, pogotovo u onim dijelovima svijeta gdje su kršenja ljudskih prava gotovo genocid ili su zaista genocid, kao što to čini na primjer islamska država. međutim, sloboda medija, slobode udruživanja, ravnopravnost žena i muškaraca, prava djece, prava raznih jezičnih i vjerskih manjina ugroženi su gotovo svugdje u svijetu, pa i u nekim europskim zemljama. pogotovo za one zemlje koje nisu članice europske unije znamo da nije sve idealno. u tom kontekstu želim izraziti svoju snažnu podršku i zato sam vrlo jasno glasao za ovaj izvještaj.
mr president, the lisbon treaty allows us what is obviously the most important thing today: to have power, to have power, to have military power, to have a strong security-intelligence system. this is what the european union needs today if it is to be a credible partner, if it is to be credible on a global scale. it is evident in many hot spots, especially in the middle east, that only those with military power can play a serious role. and what happens to us, we who have no military force? we have a crisis, we have a migration crisis because of this and we cannot act, we cannot act with quality. so let's take advantage of the lisbon treaty, let's create a strong security and intelligence union so that we can, quite simply, offer our citizens more security and more seriousness for all those efforts that we are all putting together in this room.
mr president, i supported this report because i support the rapprochement of the western balkan countries and montenegro in particular with the eu and i support their future accession to the eu. i am very pleased that the report we voted on condemns russia's attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of these countries in the balkans. the issue is being handled by montenegro. i believe that after montenegro joined nato and is moving closer to the eu, the pressure from russia may continue to increase and we will have to be able to respond to that. the report also contains a number of points with which i agree, it analyses the individual chapters of montenegro's approach to the eu. i particularly welcome the questions concerning justice in montenegro, where it is described in great detail what needs to be improved in order for montenegro to become a state governed by the rule of law in the future and thus have the same parameters of justice as eu member states.
mr president, i supported this report because i am 100% convinced that it is precisely the accession of montenegro to the european union one day, not too far from today, that will contribute to the stabilisation of the western balkans. black mountain plays a very positive role. the pro-european leadership that is running montenegro today is also talking about how they want to change their country, they want to reform montenegro. we see that many chapters are open. we look forward to opening new chapters. we expect the government to really get in the way of everything that matters to the citizens of montenegro, and i believe that the very fact that this small country in the western balkans cooperates well with its neighbors will contribute to them, its neighbors, montenegrin neighbors, being a step closer to the european union at the moment when it becomes the first member from the western balkans, a new member of the european union.
mr president, although i always want to be very careful when we conduct political debates based on newspaper articles, no matter how serious the financial times is, which i have no doubt about, but i do have some doubts sometimes about our friends at the efdd because they too know how to use various arguments, and especially, i must say, some experience with ngos which have been excellent, but there are also many ngos with which i have had really bad experiences. i would like to add something here that i consider extremely important, and that is that frontex itself said that criminal networks smuggled migrants directly by ngo ships. that can be verified, mr. commissioner. you can check which ngos they are. frontex is obliged to give us information, it is obliged to give you information. so, it can be verified. it is also incredible that the migrants were not prepared to cooperate with the people who were in charge of the interrogation, and some even spoke about not wanting to cooperate with the italian police, namely frontex. those are serious accusations. these are serious but verifiable allegations. i urge you in this context to really try to put an end to these stories, to know exactly what has been happening and to finally have a comprehensive strategy for everything that is happening in the mediterranean because otherwise, we know it's too late, let's not be too late.
mr president, the commission representative said that the commission has no report from the member states that there is any such cooperation. on the other hand, the financial times gives very precise quotations from a frontex report which the commission representative should have some knowledge of. obviously, something problematic is going on. it's an example of how politics can be distorted and how completely opposing viewpoints, interests and motives can find common ground. and if someone were to ask a hypothetical question: if this cooperation saved thousands of lives, who could be against such cooperation even if it is actually a distortion and not a policy? this question shows that the european union cannot have a response to the mass influx of refugees without using force, or at least inhuman treatment. the real solution to the high pressure of refugees is, of course, to act in those areas where crises are emerging - humanitarian, economic and security. the european union has no comprehensive crisis management in any of these areas, and that is why we will be facing crises like this for a long time to come, including the moral dilemmas that these crises and situations open up.
mr. president, i would like to emphasize the importance of those organizations that have sacrificed themselves to help people who could die, who could be killed. there is no doubt that many ngos have helped the most disadvantaged because those who want to come to europe, the vast, vast majority, are not criminals but simply people who do not know what to do or how to live and want to come to a europe that seems to them like a beautiful fairy tale. but there's an additional problem, the problem of smuggling and the problem of migrants coming in will not go away. in fact, it will be present all the time, perhaps even increasing. so our engagement must be permanent about everything, and to my respected, dear austrian friend, i will not say this in my native german, but i will just tell him that the answer to his discussion was given tonight in the elections in the netherlands. it's an answer to what you've been saying, dear mr. mayer.
mr. president, fostering solidarity is important to building responsible societies that care for their most vulnerable. without solidarity there is no social cohesion, no civil and national consciousness, and ultimately no preservation of our christian civilization, of which it is one of the foundations. the european solidarity corps was created with a positive intention. i have no doubt about that, but i think in this case the performance will be sloppy. the question is whether we need solidarity forces as a separate programme or whether they could be integrated into one of the existing programmes, such as the european voluntary service. we have to make sure that the new program, if it's really needed, doesn't become an additional burden on the taxpayer. the commission seems to understand that, but it wants to take money away from quality programmes like erasmus. that's not good. there are enough inefficient programs that can be shut down, instead of taking away funds from those that add value.
mr. president, during this debate, i was reminded of my youth. i remembered the youth work projects we had in croatia, which covered the whole of what was then yugoslavia. i was afraid of that enthusiasm and that will, regardless of ideology, and the friendships that existed between young people who were different and who came from different parts of the country at the time. i see this as something that gives young people in the european union the opportunity to know themselves, to know their neighbours, to know the value of solidarity, the value of friendship and that is why i support it, despite some contradictions, but i expect that synergies will be created with all the other programmes that exist and that is why this programme will succeed.
madam president, mr commissioner, i have managed to put 519 questions to the commission so far. i completely agree with you that the system needs to change and it's not the quantity of questions that matters, it's the quality of the questions, and even more importantly, the quality of the answers. i asked 518 specific questions. i got mostly general answers. i didn't ask too many political questions, because i'm less interested in that. i am generally familiar with the commission's political positions on the main issues, but i have asked specific questions to which i have received general answers. i was asked what the commission is doing to protect the interests of the european union and its member states in space and the moon, and i received a counter-claim. very frivolous! i think we really need to change the way we answer our questions.
madam president, human trafficking is one of the most serious crimes and the worst violations of human rights. we must fight it decisively with quality policies, better coordination between the competent authorities of the member states, greater effectiveness on the ground and closer cooperation with the countries with which we share an external border. but to move forward and better fight this serious crime, we must learn from our mistakes. our tolerance of the illegal influx of migrants has led to the business of human smugglers literally flourishing. if we continue with our policies of sending a message that we are ready to accept all the unfortunates of this world without any criteria, the pressure on our borders will only increase, and the smugglers will have even more clients. without a decisive strike on human traffickers and a clear departure from the mindless policy of open borders, this great problem, even with the best of intentions, will not be solved!
madam president, we have no choice but to admit to ourselves that we simply did not react in time and that we now need "fire-fighting measures". i use the term "fire-gas meters" symbolically because we know what it means when a fire consumes a forest. we're harassing them now in a different way, for the sake of profit, extra profit, for corruption. we have no interest in protecting the environment or the basic values that we promote, above all, in our own backyard. it's as if this little planet will live only on the protection we give it on our continent. our trade, our companies that are so desperate to develop and to get capital in the wrong way, without fair trade, is not going to help this planet. so i'm all for traceability and certification and a lot of the things that are very well put in this report.
madam president, the fraud situation revealed in the meat sector is a cause for concern because of the omission of official controls which knew that the meat did not meet quality standards, but nevertheless did not prevent it from being exported to the european market. in international trade, the trust of the partner is crucial, and in this case it is significantly undermined both in the surveillance service and in product control. such behaviour is highly irresponsible as it undermines existing international trade agreements between brazil and the european union. the commission has not received any comments from the goc or the goc's representatives. this situation also puts further trade negotiations with mercosur countries at risk and forces the member states of the european union to increase the level of confidence and verification of imported food products in order to protect their citizens. if we cannot trust third country declarations and certificates, then domestic checks are necessary. if there is no mutual trust, there can be no free trade agreement. besides, i always say buy a home-made one, because home-made is the best.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would also like to thank my colleague, werner kuhn, the rapporteur on this file, for the very clear explanation that he has just given. the commission welcomes the agreement reached between the two co—legislators on our proposal concerning the recast of the regulation on characteristics for fishing vessels. as werner explained, this is essentially a technical exercise consisting in codifying a rather old legal text dating back to 1986 and updating an empowerment to the commission in accordance with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. the commission attaches great importance to simplifying and clarifying the law of the union so as to make it clearer and more accessible and understandable to citizens. for this reason the codification of rules that have frequently been amended is essential to make the law clearer and more transparent. the agreement reached in february is a step forward in this direction. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, i congratulate rapporteur kuhn and the shadow rapporteurs on a quality report that addresses certain legislative problems that have for many years been an administrative obstacle to citizens exercising their rights. unfortunately, in this house and in national and regional parliaments, there is a clear trend towards complicated regulations written by experts for experts, and the common man in this jungle of rules and norms often does not get along. this report is the complete opposite and therefore a step in the right direction. the regulatory framework must be as simple and as applicable as possible in order to achieve the desired effects. it must be clear to those to whom it applies, not just to experts. the initiative to codify the 1986 regulation on the characteristics of fishing vessels is a good thing, because the coherent implementation of the common fisheries policy implies the same rules and definitions. but as i have said many times in this house, the common fisheries policy must take account of regional and local specificities and the socioeconomic and cultural importance of fisheries in individual regions. i am therefore particularly pleased that the codification process will take into account, in addition to the technical characteristics of the vessels themselves, their social role in coastal communities and their environmental impact and fishing capacity. i consider this proposal a major step in the right direction and will therefore support it in the vote.
the reporter. madam president, women living in rural areas deserve our full attention and our full engagement. their problems are real, and to understand them, we need to understand the diverse roles of women in rural areas. they take care of their families, they preserve tradition and the environment, they work in agriculture, which is one of the most important economic sectors of any country, they participate in the food production process. women in rural areas are invaluable to their family farms, and are important for the development of entrepreneurship, sustainable development and overall economic development. but they're not a homogeneous group, so i advocate a specific approach to their diverse roles. women in rural areas do not have good access to education, they are poorly computer literate, and internet access is still at a very low level. also, because of the distance between specialist doctors and the lack of diagnostic facilities, in most cases women do not go to a doctor until the disease is advanced, which is unfortunately sometimes too late for them. in rural areas, there is often no adequate social, social and communal infrastructure necessary for a decent life. women make up less than 50% of the total working population in rural areas of the european union and manage only 30% of family farms. during 2014, women accounted for around 35% of total working time in agriculture, making a significant contribution to agricultural production, and in addition, on farms, they take care of the family and household, often characterised as 'invisible' work. rural women are often economically dependent on their husbands, have no working hours, and struggle with the lack of basic social and pension rights such as substantially lower pensions or unpaid maternity leave. almost half of them never take a holiday and are very little involved in decision-making processes at local and regional level. no eu member state has yet established a thematic sub-programme for women in rural areas such as the one for young farmers, although this is provided for by the european agricultural fund for rural development, which is a clear indication that women in rural areas are simply not valued enough. this report recognises the invaluable contribution women make to the economy of rural areas and encourages member states to make greater and more synergistic use of the instruments available under the european agricultural fund for rural development, the leader+ programme and the european social fund. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. i hope that this report will help to raise awareness of the problems faced by women in rural areas and, in this sense, be a step towards their solution. the women of the village are the real heroes and that's why i'm dedicating this report to them.
dear president, for a long time the citizens of croatia have been protesting against the penal code which, in its current form, is a legalized robbery of the common man. the elections were dominated by parties that promised to change the law, but nothing came of it because of the obvious political collusion with powerful interest groups that are behind this law and its application to the rich. the court of justice of the european union has established that croatian notaries public, when acting in enforcement proceedings on the basis of a so-called 'authentic document', cannot be considered to be a 'court' for the purposes of applying the regulation on the european enforcement order and the regulation on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the commission has also received comments from the croatian authorities, which have not provided any information on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. this is clear discrimination and i therefore ask the commission to clarify whether such a law is in line with the european acquis.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr president, mr toschenovsky, i have listened to you carefully and i know that you belong to a political group that is not inclined to solve problems at european level, at least to some extent it is not, but do you not think that we should have a european agency to monitor vehicles which are like fish, and we know that we have a common fisheries policy? cars are driven and sold all over europe, and beyond, and our cars. do you not think that, in addition to the need to monitor cars at national level, we should have a serious european car monitoring agency?
on behalf of the s&d club. mr. president, medical devices are not important until they are needed, but the moment they are needed, they become the most important thing in the world. the main objective we want to achieve with these regulations is to better protect patients while encouraging innovation in industry. europe has the best doctors in the world, but they and their patients need to know that they have quality and safe equipment. trust in the industry is capitalized through better product placement and sales, so the new rules will actually benefit everyone. the commission published its initial proposal back in 2012, which means that european patients have been waiting for 5 years to close the loopholes in regulations that have caused scandals with artificial hips, implants and hiv testing. when a scandal happens in this sector, people die. that is why we insisted that new and innovative in vitro medical devices of the highest risk class for which there are no references and no common specifications be covered by an additional surveillance procedure. the new rules strengthen the capacities and structures of the designated bodies which have the most important role in placing devices on the market. their responsibilities and obligations are increasing, and one of the novelties is unannounced inspections of manufacturers. when scandals occur and patients suffer, the issue of fair and timely compensation becomes imperative. new regulations require medical device manufacturers to have an adequate system and resources in place to compensate patients in the event of an incident. in addition, manufacturers will have to provide injured parties and competent services with appropriate access to information and documentation related to their case. as far as the ethics committee and issues like clinical trials of devices on minors are concerned, from day one we have insisted that the regulations be aligned with the regulations on drug trials. i think we've managed to strike a good compromise that raises the level of safety for patients and users. the new procedures and safety mechanisms will not be an obstacle to the innovation and competitiveness of the european medical device industry. so i urge you all to support this compromise, because it's in the best interest of both patients and medical device manufacturers. in closing, i'd like to thank my colleague glenis willmott, my colleague peter liese and all the other shadow reporters i've worked with on this documentary. it has been a very difficult and painstaking job, but the results will be a joy to all of us, especially the patients.
mr president, commissioner mimica, i congratulate my fellow rapporteurs on a very well balanced report which calls for a common approach and response to the unprecedented wave of migration facing the european union. i believe that the three key messages that we need to send through this report, both to our citizens and to our global partners, are: the only lasting solution to the migration crisis is at its source, the european union's external policy must take a more assertive role in reconciliation processes to stem new refugee flows, and the european union must take the lead in coordinating the instruments for funding migration management together with other international institutions and communicate more visibly its efforts to help eradicate poverty and intolerance, the main causes of injustice that force people to leave their homes. we must not forget countries with fragile inter-confessional populations like lebanon, which in these difficult times are dealing with the enormous pressure of refugees, who make up half of their population. they urgently need help to prevent the dam from overflowing and europe from facing even greater problems.
mr. president, congratulations to the reporters on a worthy job. i welcome the initiative to help the union's southern neighbourhood and the western balkans to create jobs, economic resilience and reduce poverty, and in particular the emphasis on the need for a decentralised approach in the conduct of european migration policy. however, key questions remain unanswered. who caused the migrant crisis? how much responsibility does the european union have? and how should the eu act preventively? the european union must strictly control the flow of migrants and carry out systematic surveillance of its external borders. the european union must of course show solidarity and help vulnerable groups, especially women and children, but it must not ignore the issue of security and the fact that a large number of refugees are able-bodied men. solidarity and humanity must not be used as a pretext for a cultural change in europe, and the european union must not become a refugee camp or a final destination for refugees.
mr president, the migration crisis, which is still not over, represents the biggest migration challenge europe has faced since the second world war. we cannot remain indifferent to the suffering of people coming from regions affected by the raging war, but we cannot continue with the naive and disastrous policy of accepting everyone who shows up at our borders. protecting a life-threatening victim is one thing, and having no criteria is another. brussels' solutions have proven bad, for migrants as well as for the host countries. migrants were sent under quotas to countries that they didn't want to go to and that for various reasons didn't want to accept them. it makes no sense because it violates the will of both the member states and the migrants. no one should have the right to decide for a member state what its society will look like, who it will accept and how it will integrate these people, as long as the state respects the fundamental values and the legal acquis of the european union.
written. people migrate and leave their homes every day for a variety of reasons, voluntarily and involuntarily. today, there are some 244 million international migrants, and this indicates that migration has reached unprecedented proportions. the alarming fact is that in the last five years, the number of refugees has increased by as much as 50 percent. the most vulnerable are the minors on the mediterranean migration stream, who cross borders in the hope of a better future, risking their lives, because despite the rescue efforts, the death toll is constantly rising. they are exposed to a range of psychological and physical dangers, including various forms of violence, and it is alarming that women and children, who are the least vulnerable to these dangers, are a particularly vulnerable group. i believe that, aware of the fact that international migration can contribute to socioeconomic development, the international community must representatively highlight the benefits of migration and urgently take measures to strengthen the collective response in order to protect the rights and dignity of persons who have been forced to leave their homes. only a common struggle can put an end to xenophobic, populist and nationalist discourse.
mr president, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteurs, colleagues olbricht and thomas. the mff review is very clear and encouraging. first, we know and can respond to new challenges. secondly, we are building europe as a global leader and that is why we are increasing our spending on innovation, research, connecting science and economy, education, entrepreneurs, transport connectivity. thirdly, investments in education and youth employment are particularly important to us and this is an important message for member states to develop national programmes as well. and fourthly, we want a strong cohesion and agricultural policy. this is why national envelopes remain as they are and why it is important to speed up implementation. this audit is a good combination of the certainty and flexibility that the budget must have, and commissioner oettinger has also stressed it on several occasions. it is up to us, of course, to use the funds efficiently through smart projects.
madam president, social media is a revolution in human communication and a huge boost to the global economy. thanks to them, information is being disseminated globally in seconds, and companies are getting to their customers more cheaply than ever before. but like any revolution, social media is often abused, and the latest trend of fake news is actually the least of our worries. our priority must be to stop the growing trend of using social networks for serious crime such as pedophilia, prostitution, human trafficking, terrorist recruitment and similar illegal activities. let's not forget that the mainstream media, knowingly or unknowingly, has also been very much about publishing inaccuracies, so any form of social media censorship would automatically introduce self-censorship in the media, because they would be afraid to publish intriguing information. i'm not for restricting free speech, but i am for taking full responsibility for malicious information that can cause people psychological or material harm.
written. the internet can be a very useful tool for achieving freedom of expression, although it is also necessary to take into account the harmful purposes it can have. freedom of expression is one of the fundamental rules of the european union, but the increasing number of fake social media profiles indicates that they are being used to spread hate speech, fake news, recruitment and propaganda, thus violating fundamental human rights. extremism is increasingly present on social networks, and consequently some member states are introducing specific laws to prevent it. clearly, clear guidelines are needed to take effective measures to limit the spread of hate speech and fake news.
mr president, june 15 will be a great day for me personally, but also for all those who want to travel in europe, who want to do business in europe and who want to reduce the differences that exist between us in european countries, whether north or south, whether east or west. these days, when we're struggling to equalise the quality of products in the east and the west, here's a final example. what better example than the abolition of roaming charges to show and prove that the european union is capable of making decisions in the interests of our consumers, in the interests of our citizens. this is a concrete example where we can prove just that. so i'm grateful to all the people who have worked on this project for years and who have managed to reach such a good agreement. i hear there are differences between the northern and southern countries, that the teleoperators will benefit from increasing the price of their fees. however, all of this is negligible compared to what we have received. there's no longer any reason for people from the east to feel any worse than people from the west when we're riding in the same car, so some people can surf, and some people can't surf, because it's too expensive, because they have too high a price in their country. so, once again, i want to thank you, roaming is history, and i hope that this is another way to show those who think that the european union is not functional that it can work on this example.
mr president, the use of data traffic is increasing both in the european and global context. it is clear that this trend will continue, which is good for the european economy, as new opportunities are opening up in the services sector. the global economy is being transformed by new technologies, and this process is inevitable. for europe, it can be very useful if we take advantage of all the opportunities it offers and do not limit our own growth by imposing an excessive regulatory burden. the commission considers that the increase in the number of data traffic users is due to the increase in the number of data traffic users in the union. another proof that the supply-demand relationship must be the main regulator of price, and that policy should interfere with that relationship as little as possible.
on behalf of the ppe group of representatives. mr president, the visa-free regime for ukrainians travelling to the european union is just another proof of the european parliament's continued support for ukraine. this parliament has consistently shown solidarity with and condemned russia's military involvement and illegal annexation of crimea, and encouraged the promotion of political and economic reforms in ukraine. in the last two years, ukraine has embarked on an ambitious and comprehensive reform process, the real aim of which is to create a genuinely democratic political system and a properly functioning economy. the success of all reforms should enable ukraine to make the transition from a post-soviet state to a european state. the commission has also assessed the situation of the ukrainian authorities in the field of the visa policy and the situation of the ukrainian authorities in the field of the visa policy. this is an opportunity to call on the ukrainian government to remain resolute in pursuing further reforms. they must show determination in implementing and achieving political stability, which, together with the support of the people, is crucial to its success. the fact is that ukraine has met all the conditions and also that all these conditions allow for the visa suspension to happen, but also allow for stability, security, prosperity and i personally think that ukraine deserves this treatment and i hope we will vote in that sense tomorrow.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. crime is everywhere, and it can happen in european countries too. it's about biometric passports and as i said, ukraine has met all the conditions that were asked of it. it's been a long process, and this is a way to help ukraine slowly integrate into europe and free itself from russian influence.
the dialogue on visa liberalisation between the european union and ukraine started nine years ago. the commission has published several positive reports on the implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, which demonstrates significant progress since 2014 when taking into account the internal circumstances and external pressures faced by the country. in its final report, the commission concludes that ukraine has made the necessary progress and met all the criteria set out in the action plan. this decision should not be communicated as some unilateral concession of the european union to ukraine. ukraine is our key partner in the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership. the principle of reciprocity of visa liberalisation is reflected in the mutual benefits for both european and ukrainian citizens. it will contribute to broadening the network of contacts, strengthening economic and cultural relations and fostering political dialogue on vital issues. in conclusion, i am extremely pleased that the european parliament is finally voting on this decision which represents much more than the technical aspect of our relations. it is a much-awaited symbolic but also very concrete act of support by the european union to ukraine and its citizens. i hope that the council will soon confirm this decision, because, although it is clear that there will be no further enlargement of the european union any time soon, our support for ukraine in achieving one of its key objectives, namely membership of the european union, must not be undermined by the fact that it is gradually achieving all the necessary standards.
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. madam president, commissioner, of the series of very slow developments and crises taking place in the western balkans, macedonia has been the longest in stagnation and it can be said that progress has been completely absent there in recent years. it might even be argued that macedonia is in a worse position today in terms of prospects for joining the european union than it was ten years ago. a country that goes from crisis to crisis. the example of macedonia shows how young countries, young democracies can stand their ground and how these fragile democratic processes can be turned back. it is possible, of course, and it happens in developed democracies, but we should be interested in the role of the european parliament, or the european union, in this process. the country is left without perspective. in a way, it has been humiliated for the last ten years and that feeling of abandonment has surely further reinforced the negative tendencies that are happening in macedonia. the country is in a very sensitive area. the threat is that social, internal political conflicts will escalate into ethnic and interstate conflicts in this wider space, and we know that space is inherently unstable anyway. i know that the european union does not have big, strong mechanisms, but in addition to appeals and calls and support, it should have had a clear, thoughtful policy, clear plans and a greater presence of the european parliament and the european union in macedonia.
madam president, commissioner, regardless of the circumstances, i congratulate my colleague mr weigl on a quality document because the resolution covers all the facts and processes relevant to macedonia in 2016. what is certainly not good is the sequence of events following the snap elections held in december. faced with the loss of power, the long-time ruling party, its leader and the president of the republic from its ranks have brought the country into a difficult situation. after the president of the country repeatedly refused to give a mandate to form a new government to the leader who managed to secure the majority of the elected representatives, macedonia again returned to a period of internal conflict. the incitement of street protests, the unfounded accusations that the new government will threaten the unity of the country, the ignoring of european union officials who advise respect for the constitution, become instruments to maintain tensions and force new elections. in parallel, the former ruling party is also blocking the functioning of the new parliament, so that the regular local elections scheduled for may have not been called. what seems crucial to me is that the dividing lines that the former prime minister and his party are deepening leave no trace on the european union's common approach to the crisis in macedonia. this approach of the european union and the international community has already produced good results on several occasions. by discussing the long-running and increasingly serious crisis in macedonia, we are actually responding to the growing dilemma of what kind of political arrangements we want in the western balkan states. because depending on the clarity of our positions and the persistence of our consistent adherence to democratic standards we will send a message to all the protagonists of the violation of the same. no one is disputing the results of the extraordinary parliamentary elections held recently in macedonia. i can say that as a direct observer of this election. the election did not produce an absolute winner, but a relative one. a victor who failed to renew his coalition with his former partners. but that same party then opposed a coalition of former partners and direct rivals. political communities can fall into crisis because that's the nature of relationships in societies. but it doesn't matter how a political community recognizes the crisis and how it comes out of it. let's not forget that partisan conflict in macedonia is inseparable from ethnic tensions. fortunately, the current setbacks have not caused the crisis to spill over into the wider region, which is already fragile. so our response must be consistent and timely.
madam president, i would like to commend the report drawn up by the rapporteur. i am convinced that it is necessary to take a positive approach to macedonia and, despite all the problems, to show it the way to european structures and nato. the report is, in my opinion, very balanced, clearly describing the political problems that are plaguing this country at this moment. and most of the speakers talked about it, too. as someone who has spent my life working on justice reform in eastern europe, i am pleased that a good deal of this report is devoted to the very detailed state of justice in this country, the state of the public prosecution service and the state of the fight against organised crime and corruption. it is clear that judicial reform in macedonia is not enough. the establishment of individual offices, such as the office of the special prosecutor, is not sufficient if this office does not have the opportunity to carry out independent investigations and its activities. i support the report.
madam president, i am concerned about the situation in macedonia where the political crisis has lasted for too long, and all because of the interference and influence of other states in the internal political affairs of macedonia. this crisis, unfortunately, is not coming to an end. and while america and albania are clearly showing their influence in that part of europe, the institutions of the european union are extremely passive although i consider them most responsible for the situation in macedonia because they allowed the blockade of greece and macedonia has been unjustly held at the door of the european union and nato for 12 years. for the 38th day, macedonian citizens have been protesting in the streets because they do not want macedonia to be governed on the basis of the tirana platform compiled in another country. i understand the discontent of the macedonian people because personally i would not like the establishment of the croatian government to be negotiated in another country. i call on all political actors in macedonia to respect the constitution, and above all to respect the will of their own people who are the biggest victims of this political crisis and who did not vote for the tirana platform. i call on the european union to open negotiations with macedonia and thus send a message that it supports macedonia's european future and that it cares about stability in the western balkans.
madam president, women all over the world face various forms of discrimination, a glass ceiling, violations of their human and civil rights, which we often put in the background. the contribution to humanitarian aid is important and the european union has an obligation to participate, but the vacuum allegedly created by the global blocking rules does not exist. america has allocated 10.3 billion u.s. dollars for humanitarian aid. the biggest part of this money, as much as 70 percent, goes to hiv prevention and treatment. it is not true that the reduced money is intended for this purpose. it's also not true that the funds for medication, maternity and postpartum care, contraception, have been eliminated. it is incorrect to say that there are limited means of abortion in cases where the mother's life is in danger and in cases of rape or incest. it is true that the money is being diverted to organizations that do not promote abortion as a method of family planning, which is in line with international conventions. when we talk about the united nations population fund, it does highlight in its program that it does not promote abortion as a method of family planning, but it does provide a drug called misoprostol that is also used to induce abortion. i wonder why so-called family planning organizations put the promotion of abortion at the center of their activities instead of helping the millions of women who want to have children but cannot.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, mr commissioner, you and i are both aware that, unfortunately, the term roma is associated with segregation, racism, intolerance, all of which are directly contrary to the values of the european union, which we all want to promote here in this chamber, and which is the exact opposite of that, namely tolerance, respect for our differences. among other things, it is a fact that the roma are the minority that suffered most along with the jews in the second world war. unfortunately, i have to say that along with nazi germany and ustasha croatia was one of those countries that showed what it means to kill people, simply because they belonged to a minority that everyone hated at that moment. what i want to stress, however, is something else. i want to emphasize that there are good examples, and apart from all the tragedies we've seen, there are great examples. i will also dare to mention what i did when i was mayor of istria when i did everything i could to help the roma. i want to tell you that if we use some methods - concrete, very concrete - if we help them with their education, if we organize special kindergartens for them, if we provide scholarships for roma children, if we organize their media appearances to show their culture and what they really know, if we organize special councils for national minorities, if we can help them with micro-enterprises, if we legalize their businesses in the markets, then a lot can be done. i would like to stress that european programmes, national programmes will never really come together unless local and regional authorities are seriously involved. medjugorje is another, equally good example, because we have roma settlements not only in the countries mentioned earlier, but also in croatia. the roma settlements in medjugorje have a number of problems, but they also have good examples. i would just like to emphasise in this context that i would call on the commission to consider how to direct european money towards local and regional authorities, as this is certainly one of the ways in which the roma community can be better integrated into the local or regional community. (the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
the question she raised by raising her blue card. mr jakovčić, we are not in the croatian parliament, but i listened to what you said and i pay tribute to the efforts you have made as the mayor of istria in your region and i think it is necessary to direct the money towards the roma communities and therefore i join your appeal. do you see croatia as a good example, where we have a representative of the roma community in the croatian parliament? i think that's a pretty solid example and it can be called european practice.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear colleague, i am convinced that croatia has definitely made a series of serious, positive steps towards all minorities, including the roma. the fact that we have a guaranteed mandate for a member of the roma minority in the european parliament is something that i am not sure exists in any other eu country. i don't know all the details of this legislation, but this is certainly a great example and a way for a representative who belongs to the roma community to promote the interests of that community and show the way of its integration.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union has constantly and consistently called on the government of bangladesh to guarantee respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. this political outreach was a joint action with this parliament. during two recent visits to bangladesh, distinguished members of the european parliament called on the government to respect human rights, the rule of law, the democratic process, freedom of expression and fundamental labour rights. these visits received widespread local press coverage. the european union human rights strategy identifies the prevention of child marriage as a priority. the european union regularly raises the issues of child marriage with the bangladesh authorities, most recently during the eu-bangladesh subgroup on good governance and human rights. in december last year in particular, the european union raised concerns with regard to the child marriage prevention act, which keeps the marriageable age of girls at 18 but allows exceptions under specific circumstances. furthermore, the european union has contributed eur 6 million to the funding of the unfpa-unicef and unfpa global programme on child marriage, which also benefits the fight against child marriage in bangladesh. as regards the wider human rights situation in bangladesh, at the eu-bangladesh subgroup on good governance and human rights the eu raised concerns on extra-judicial killings and enforced disappearances, the death penalty, freedom of association and freedom of expression, the situation of minorities, violence against women, and fundamental labour rights. at the eu-bangladesh diplomatic consultation held in brussels in february this year, while recognising progress made so far under the sustainability compact, the european union underlined the need to address the shortcomings in compliance with freedom of association. human rights are also part of the partnership on development aid and cooperation set out in the multiannual indicative programme for bangladesh, which provides support to the sectors of nutrition, education and good governance for the period until 2020, for a total amount of eur 690 million. child marriages and other human rights issues will be further discussed at the eu-bangladesh joint commission to be held in brussels in the first half of this year. the european union stands ready to work together with the government of bangladesh in addressing these issues.
written. bangladesh is the fifth country in the world in terms of child marriage. 52% of girls are married before the age of 18, and 18% before the age of 15. in rural areas of the country, this ratio is even higher and even more frightening 71% of girls are forced into marriage and adolescence before the age of 18. it is a sad realization that parents, threatened by dire poverty, have no other way to secure the future, sometimes the life, of their daughters than to marry them off in their infancy and early youth. every minute, 28 girls around the world lose their futures to child marriage, with devastating physical, psychological, and emotional consequences. the government of the people's republic of bangladesh has committed to a national plan to completely eradicate child marriage by 2041, and last year passed the child marriage restriction act, which introduces harsher penalties for people who marry children, but the law is flawed and actually legally allows child marriage, without specifying the "special conditions" that must be met for a child marriage to be legally valid. children have a right to a childhood, but to ensure a childhood for children, we must provide their parents with the minimum standards for a life of dignity so that they do not resort to such terrible actions. eradicating poverty is a goal we must achieve.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the italian friends who have raised this question, with those who have spoken, who live in italy, who live in campania, aware of the fact that living in such an environment is not easy, it is politically responsible, it is responsible in every way, especially in a human way. the commissioner knows that in our own question today, we are talking about the fact that the terra dei fuochi is an area in campania where there are some 2 000 extremely polluted sites which directly affect the lives of two and a half million inhabitants who are reportedly dying of cancer or are exposed to really toxic fires. it's a very serious question how we're going to handle this together. the area covers as many as 57 municipalities between naples and caserta. the added problem is that no one knows where this toxic waste is even buried, whether it's in one place, in another, it's been going on for years. all the talk about organized crime, but not just organized crime, but procrastination in a really wild way. what is of course most worrying is that all of this combined has a terrible impact on public health. it's frightening to hear the data that we've heard, and it's especially frightening the information that public health cannot help children, cannot help those who need health most in growing up. so young people, children are dying because we have these toxic fires. what i want to stress is something else. i want to talk about how to solve problems like this. my experience is that solving problems like this can be done with european money. i have concrete examples that i have personally worked on in the remediation and identification of 46 wild landfills that were, or are still partly, on the border between croatia and slovenia. with common resources, european resources, and joint efforts, we have managed to find all these common wild landfills and begin to deal with them systematically, one by one, so to speak. we need to include ngos. in creating the wildlife landfill cadastre, i personally involved scouts, mountaineers, all those organizations that are benevolent towards the environment and want to be actively involved in all of this. we've identified this landfill by having a gps location for every wildlife dump. and then you can systematically address those problems. of course, i want to emphasize here not only the way of cross-border cooperation, because in this particular case we don't even have that, but i want to emphasize the need to cooperate with local authorities. without the active participation of local authorities, neither national nor regional, let alone european authorities, anything can be done. yes, we need european money, because without european money, local, national and regional authorities will not be able to cope easily. but we need good partners in local government, in ngos, because without them, i'm sure we're going to have a very hard time solving the problems. i want to warn you and take this opportunity, mr. commissioner, to mention the many black spots as we call them in croatia that exist in the area. there are in the environment not only in croatia, but also in the candidate countries, there are in many places many more wild landfills, many more dangerous landfills. it is time to make this inventory of the most dangerous landfills in the european union and in our first neighbourhood in countries that will very soon one day become members of the european union. so i want to warn you about one big problem, and that is the problem of military material being dumped in the adriatic sea. this is a very serious problem. no one talks about it anywhere and we all kind of hide and we don't want to talk about it publicly. but it's a serious environmental issue. so i think that the colleagues who have opened this question in this way have shown their desire and solidarity with the citizens of campania. i want to confirm this once again here, but i want to ask the european commission to take the case of campania seriously and to make it the starting point for tackling the overall problem of such wild landfills of hazardous waste in the european union. the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear mrs. grapini, thank you for your question. i think there are a number of ways that you can help and one that you mentioned, and that is the issue of using the efsf funds in a way that really helps to deal with the wild or toxic landfills. but if the fund is not to be used for these purposes, it can certainly be used to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture in campania, which unfortunately, because of the overall situation, because of its image, has run into problems of competitiveness. and in that context, if we want to use money to protect the environment and solve the problems of wild landfills, we can do that. and juncker money, juncker fund money, to be used to strengthen the competitiveness of tourism, agriculture and other sectors in campania.
written. the european union is only as strong as each of its members. the european union needs a strong hungary and i personally welcome the success of hungary as well as that of every member state. the dedicated work of all of us is the prerequisite for our citizens to live better. when problems arise, it is good that we, as a european family, deal with them in a spirit of togetherness and solidarity. it is also important to respect the competence of the member states and hungary's right to require all universities to meet standards in order to resolve the situation where some non-european universities have better job opportunities than european ones. there are 28 such universities in hungary, and among them is the george soros university in budapest, which cannot be an exception and despite the fact that only 10% of hungarians study there, this university must respect hungarian laws. ngos that receive money from abroad should, in the spirit of transparency they advocate, disclose who is funding their business, as this is the best way to remove the ambiguities that undermine the confidence of citizens and governments in their work.
madam president, the result of the constitutional referendum is for many in this house disappointing, while i personally find it liberating. for too long, the eu-turkey bilateral relationship has been burdened by the prospect of turkish membership and on this basis it has never been fully developed into open cooperation between two equal partners in areas of mutual interest. it's no wonder the turks are tired of meeting our conditions and we are frustrated by the fact that they can't and to a good degree consciously don't want to meet them to the end. it is a country from another cultural and civilization circle that has no place in the european union. the turks know this, and finally after this referendum, those europeans who have been blind to the end of healthy eyes have also learned. as much as some may be disappointed, it is not up to us to make turkey our own, it is up to its citizens. i hope that in the near future we will develop a maximum fruitful cooperation.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, certain european union programmes are usually a make-up of the community's image in the eyes of citizens, which unfortunately costs taxpayers too much and in return offers no added value. but the structural reform programme is the exact opposite and therefore has my full support. this is a real need, as some member states lack a quality institutional framework and the necessary administrative capacity to make better use of european funds and to implement key structural reforms that would ensure faster economic growth, a stronger private sector, new jobs and a sustainable social system. the political will for reform in individual member states cannot be unduly influenced by the commission, but the availability of a larger amount of money for their implementation will force each responsible authority to take action, while exposing the irresponsible in the eyes of the citizens.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i must say that i am delighted with this debate because the colleagues with whom i had the opportunity to work together in some other political situations when i was mayor of istria, mr siso or mr van nistelrooij, who are distinguished people from their countries and have held important functions at regional level, or mrs bresso, former president of piedmont, only show how much we emphasise the importance of what we are bringing today, that is, what we are talking about today. how important are these structural reforms and the involvement of municipalities, cities, regions in these structural reforms. because where do citizens live? yes, they live in the european union, in our countries, but at the end of the day they live in some region or some small settlement. and so i think this is a very valuable approach, as we're going into this debate, and i expect the commission to recognize all of this that we're talking about today because this structural reform support program has to end somewhere and it has to end to the last citizen. and that last citizen must feel when we give really concrete help to a country in carrying out structural reform. croatia has already used the structural reform support programme and is a good example. the experience we have with greece and cyprus is also a good example. this has proved to be a good thing, and i am confident that this report will find good soil. the amount of 142 million euros may not be excessive, but if nothing else, it can at least start to create some synergetic assets that can be included in this structural reform programme. and finally, as a shadow reporter, i would like to sincerely thank on behalf of the alde club my colleagues van nistelrooi and krehl, who have really done a great job.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the vice-president and thank him and his team for the well-prepared regulatory proposal and also all the rapporteurs for the very high quality of their work. we have been discussing the specific recommendations for member states for several years and we conclude that they are not being implemented, we are not satisfied with the progress and how much positive progress is actually happening in practice. the reasons for not implementing recommendations are most often not that member states do not know what needs to be done, because it is written in different documents, not just in recommendations and in-depth analyses and forecasts and documents at national level, but the problem is how to implement what needs to be implemented. there is often a lack of knowledge and ideas and administrative capacity, and that is precisely what we want to help with this programme. we want to help share good experiences and, in addition, to encourage political will based on good experiences to make change happen.
mr. president, futurists say that america will be a shopping mall, that asia will be a big manufacturing plant, and that europe will be a museum. perhaps the futurists are not entirely right, but when they speak in this way, they are only showing what europe means, what european heritage means. our european heritage is truly intertwined. it's intertwined because we've had various civilizations disappear on european soil, various wars and conquests. we have had many tragedies, but behind all of them there are still extremely valuable monuments, which we cherish today and which are part of us, part of our civilization. so, unlike some of my colleagues who attack this programme as totally unrealistic and even inaccurate, i want to believe that this is a great start for the protection and valorization of the cultural heritage of european countries. so i support this and congratulate my dear colleague, mr deacon, on this report.
written. the discharge for the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2015 allows, firstly, for the smooth continuation of the work of this institution. the accounting records and financial statements indicate that there were no major problems and errors in the implementation of the budget. however, i believe that the procedures for financial and budgetary management need to be improved. the transparency of the work of the european parliament and its internal procedures is essential to increase citizens' confidence in the legitimacy of parliament and to facilitate access to information. in this context, i welcome the fact that a list of all suppliers with contracts worth more than eur 15000 has been published on parliament's website. i believe that the budgetary control of the european institutions is necessary to ensure that the political leadership and the administration are accountable to the citizens of the union.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank parliament and in particular the rapporteur, mrs rodust, and her team for producing this very knowledgeable report. i am not an expert, but i read the report and learned a lot. it is balanced, it gives a very concrete account of the difficulties facing the fisheries sector in the outermost regions and it also proposes very concrete measures to deal with the problems and stabilise the sector. we accept, and we are doing so as the commission, that the special conditions in these outermost regions require tailor-made solutions. we have also taken important steps towards sustainability by re-conceiving the common fisheries policy and our joint financial instrument, the european maritime and fisheries fund. we shall try to improve these measures further in the next budget, but even more so in the next budgetary and programming period, also on the basis of your proposals. the measures are exclusive access conditions, the regionalisation of conservation measures, the special advisory board proposed here, measures for small fleets, a higher intensity of financial aid, a system of compensation for additional costs, to name just a few of the essential ones. in addition, we also monitor and make suggestions for the work of national and regional levels and authorities. the whole thing is a community task at european level, but also for national and regional authorities. just some examples of where regional and national authorities are important: the new framework for scientific data on fisheries proposed by the commission contains specific provisions for the outermost regions. the responsibility for implementing the rules lies largely with the member states and the research institutes supported by the member states, and partly with the fisheries sector operators themselves. i think that the report is a good basis for all of this. we'd be happy to take him in. the competent authorities in the commission and my colleagues are ready to deepen the dialogue with you, mrs rodust, and your colleagues.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, the outermost regions must be given special attention in the formulation of all european policies, because they are at a disadvantage compared to the rest of the union because of their isolation in terms of transport and everything else. but i would like to draw attention to similar problems facing islands, especially in less developed member states like croatia. the fate of the inhabitants of the croatian islands is not much different from that of the inhabitants of the most remote regions. i am therefore calling on the commission to amend the mediterranean regulation to enable the inhabitants of the mediterranean islands to fish again with their traditional fishing gear for their own needs. parliament voted overwhelmingly last year to support my report on small-scale coastal fishing and the commission should follow the opinion of this house.
mr president, one of the key features of managing fishing fleets in the outermost regions is the need to ensure that the fisheries sector is able to compete effectively with the rest of the world. this characteristic is specific to these regions. the specificity of these regions speaks to the need to be sensitive and to take these specificities into account. are we talking about the atlantic islands or, as my colleague says, the indian ocean? they're already different from each other. and they're different from anything else that exists in the european union. of course we can talk about our mediterranean islands, which are also specific, but at this point we really need to insist on those who live in a very different european union than we do here on the continent, and that is why i call for us to accept the report, to talk about policy coherence and fisheries policy, but above all to take into account the specificity of these regions.
mr. president, my first job after graduation was in the textile industry, and i witnessed what the working conditions were like in the early '80s in the textile industry. hard-working, largely women in the textile industry with low wages. but even that kind of textile industry, mostly in europe, has gone bankrupt and moved to asia or some other developing countries, and that's largely thanks to investors from the european union, possibly some others, of course. but we didn't do it all. we have ruined our textile industry, we have created new jobs, we have helped developing countries, but in the end we have not come to have what is called "fair trade" with those countries. and so i think that today we really need to take a step forward, we really need to make a sustainable chain in this store because otherwise we're going to have on our conscience what happened, specifically, at rana plaza in bangladesh.
mr. president, regulation no. 458, which was intended to protect the security of the citizens of the european union, is completely counterproductive. it caused chaos at the border crossings between the republic of slovenia and the republic of croatia. we're dealing with citizen security through intelligence, not excessive border controls. such controls are unsustainable, they destroy the tourism sector, the transport and traffic sector, and they especially harm those people who cross the border every day, some even several times. i call on the commission, together with the croatian and slovenian governments, and other countries with similar problems, to resolve this situation as soon as possible. we're about to have a full tourist season in croatia. a big part of our economy depends on it. we need to make sure that citizens who cross the border are really safe, but they just cross the border. targeted controls are the only correct solution!
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. madam president, allow me to express my support for this report on the work of the european investment bank on behalf of the committee on regional development, and there is no doubt that without the european investment bank the overall financial sector in the european union would be far poorer. the investment we see in smes, in infrastructure, in innovation, everything that the european bank does is really extremely positive and has our full support. what i want to warn you about, though, is that we expect even better geographical balance, we expect even more investment in rural areas because it's absolutely necessary. rural areas have no other source of quality than the european investment bank. we expect investment in technical assistance, we expect complementarity with cohesion policy and the european structural and investment funds, more synergy with local and regional authorities, more synergy with everyone and more synergy with the private sector. and finally, i also call for a more aggressive risk-taking policy by the european investment bank.
the reporter. madam president, the european union, as one of the most advanced and wealthy communities in the world, has a moral and political obligation to reduce the enormous amounts of food that is thrown away each year. as long as there are public kitchens and social services in our cities and one kilogram of discarded vegetables is too much. as long as our fellow citizens dig through the bins because they're hungry and one loaf of bread thrown away is too much. as long as children are starving in yemen and somalia and one bag of flour thrown away is too much. 55 million europeans cannot afford a quality meal at least every other day. about 88 million tons of food are thrown away every year. a situation where 20 percent of the food produced is not eaten or thrown away is unsustainable and immoral. the aim of this report is to propose to the european commission and the member states policy and practical measures to reduce food waste along the whole chain from production to sale to consumption. maintaining food safety standards is our red line because public health is our priority. the report calls on member states to take the necessary measures to reduce the union's food waste target by 30% by 2025 and by 50% by 2030. to achieve this, we need official definitions of food waste and food loss and a common methodology for measuring these phenomena. the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the proposed legislation on the environment, in particular the impact of the new legislation on the environment. education is the key to reducing food waste. it is estimated that more than half of all food waste comes from households. the report calls on the commission, member states, local authorities and other stakeholders to carry out educational campaigns to inform the public about the value of food and the prevention of food waste. an example of misunderstanding the difference between "use to" and "best use to". less than half of the citizens actually know that there is a difference and that food can still be consumed after the expiry date of "best before". the commission is requested to review the appropriateness of the current labelling system and to propose changes if necessary. in some member states, vat is still charged on the donation of food, which is actually a direct consequence of european legislation. some countries have bypassed these rules, but we believe that the best solution would be for the commission to propose an amendment to the vat directive explicitly granting exemptions from payment of tax on food donations. at the same time, some member states encourage donation through tax breaks and other economic incentives for socially responsible companies. we believe that these and other examples of good practice should be promoted throughout the european union. eu funds and programmes such as the fund for aid to the most deprived and the agricultural fund for rural development have the potential to increase donations and reduce food losses. we consider that these opportunities are under-utilized and call on member states to become more involved in this issue. citizens' awareness of this problem is at a very high level today and we must not miss the opportunity to act. commissioners, member states, parliament calls for a reduction in food waste in the european union, because turning a blind eye to this problem is deeply immoral. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale club. thank you, mr president, commissioner, i take this opportunity to remind you of a recent study by the court of auditors which showed that despite the political will and debate on food waste, the commission has not shown too much commitment to tackling this problem. i am therefore pleased to hear your words today, how you and the other commissioners will be working on this with dedication, and i look forward to the trialogue, because as rapporteur in the shadow of the green party i have succeeded in introducing a binding target for the european union on food waste on behalf of the club, and i wonder whether you will also show in this trialogue your commitment to stand by parliament and convince the member states that food waste is an economic, economic, social, environmental problem, so we can list them as many as we want. and that at that moment, when we're talking in the trialogue, you'll be aware that on that day 55 million citizens of the european union could not afford a quality meal, and we waste 180 kilograms of food per capita per year and send it to landfill. we ship and create an environmental problem. and we know how weak some member states are still in reaching the targets that we have defined ourselves and the commission has defined in the circular economy package in terms of reducing waste disposal by 2030. of course, the burden must be borne by all, politicians, citizens and the economy. but one thing that is certainly important, that is also at the heart of our policies that we are making, is how we actually, through innovation, through technology, make it possible not only that less food is wasted, but that the packaging in which that food is packaged also doesn't end up in landfills or also that it doesn't accidentally end up in incinerators, because we are witnessing that by 2030, two million people a year could die from the consequences of actually burning waste. if we reduced food waste by 60%, the agricultural area of the member state of the republic of croatia would be spared from misuse. thank you very much.
mr. president, according to unicef, nearly one million four hundred thousand children could die of malnutrition this year in nigeria, somalia, south sudan and yemen, while three million one hundred thousand children under five die of hunger every year. one in nine people in the world go to bed hungry, and according to fao, about 1.3 billion tons of food are thrown away each year. this leads to the conclusion that the problem of hunger is not primarily a problem of food production, technology and raw materials, nor of climate change, but primarily a crisis of morals and a crisis of policies implemented both at the global level and within countries. today, more than ever, we need new policies that focus on people, not profit. we need rational management of resources and sustainable management. the european union throws away 88 million tons of food a year, and to prevent food from becoming waste, we are in the process of adopting a circular economy action plan, and i think one of the measures to reduce food waste can be stronger support for local agricultural production, doorstep selling and of course short food supply chains. i'm in favor of targeted social policies like eliminating vat on donated food, as well as those aimed at supporting social self-help and charitable organizations. but the most important change is the change in the minds of politicians, who must show responsibility for the people they are entrusted with. thank you very much.
the reporter. thank you, madam president. ladies and gentlemen, our job, our main job, is to make the european union work for the people. and this very issue of reducing food waste and increasing food donations is an opportunity for the european union to speak out. i would like to emphasize and express my great satisfaction that this report was unanimously adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. we ask the commission and the member states to engage on this issue because this is an issue that is extremely important to our citizens, it is important to our farmers, it is important to our traders, and it is most important to those who need food, that is to say the hungry. the debate tonight has shown that parliament is united on this issue and we will be watching closely as the executive bodies implement what we propose in this report. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues the shadow rapporteurs, mrs angélique delahaye, mr mark demesmaeker, mrs ulrike müller, mrs merja kyllönen, mr davor škrlec, mr piernicoli pedicini, mr jean-françois jalkh and all the other colleagues who have contributed to the present state of the report through their amendments and their debate this evening. thank you very much.
i thank the chair, congratulate the rapporteurs and welcome vice-president dombrovskis. if we want a customs system that works efficiently and effectively at the external border, it is necessary to break up the different practices of the member states, as my colleagues have said, and for this the exchange of knowledge and experience between the customs administrations of the member states is crucial, in which the european commission must take on the role of coordinator and ensure the uniform application of the rules by means of additional clarifications. i'm glad vice president dombrovskis just confirmed that it's being worked on. information on illicit trade and dishonest companies should be shared not only between customs administrations but also between ministries of the interior and other institutions in order to combat fraud at all levels and as effectively as possible. i would particularly like to highlight the role of olaf, which should be more active in coordinating the related investigations, because there is an important speed and synergy that we achieve only through joint and well-coordinated action. - thank you. - thank you.
i thank the chairman. a modern public administration at the service of citizens and businesses, an administration that responds quickly to inquiries, issues permits and decisions quickly, is crucial for the development of the economy and society. without digitisation and the introduction of electronic commerce, it is difficult to achieve acceleration. digitalisation usually encourages the streamlining of processes and procedures, simplification, elimination of overlaps and thus significantly accelerates the work of the administration. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. it is transparency, openness and partnership that build trust, and trust is once again the foundation of growth and development. that is why i support this action plan, which is an important message to all of us to work on transparency, simplification, acceleration and confidence building. - thank you. - thank you.
thank you, your beautiful chairwoman. digital innovation and the wider adoption of new information technologies present a great opportunity for public administration to finally become what citizens want it to be - accessible, fast, efficient and minimally visible. the commission has also identified a number of key challenges for the future of the union's energy sector, such as the need to improve the efficiency of the energy sector and the efficiency of the transport sector. but what i think is the greatest value of this report is that it promotes a dual approach because we really must not in any way exclude citizens who for various objective reasons do not use digital services and tools. the dual approach may not provide as drastic savings as would be achieved by full digitalisation, but i believe that there is enough room for public administration to be brought into some realistic frameworks within national, regional and local budgets. thank you very much.
written. the digital transformation of public administrations is a key element in realising the full potential of the single market. digital public services reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses and thereby speed up and simplify interaction with public administrations, which become more transparent and cheaper. in this context, i believe that it is necessary to ensure the transition to digital governance at national and european level, but also at local and regional level, to enable accessibility and universal accessibility and to make further efforts to promote digital solutions. we need to adapt the modernisation of public administration to the changing environment in order to achieve economic and social benefits for society as a whole. the commission should also be able to provide the member states with the necessary information to enable them to take appropriate measures to ensure that the conditions for access to the internet are met. the success of the eu e-government action plan, which i support, should take into account data protection and security to guarantee privacy and increase trust in information and communication technologies.
mr. president, the processes of globalization have brought a number of positive things, but they also have certain negative manifestations, such as the loss of jobs in western countries. unfortunately, i fear that european countries, but also companies, have not always responded appropriately in trying to protect their prosperity. the way to fight against a cheap manual labor economy is not to restrict the flow of goods or the freedom of our citizens, but to introduce more technologically complex production processes and produce more sophisticated, i.e., better, products. the workers must also be invested in. this is a task for employers, but also for workers themselves, who must understand that it is almost impossible today to enter and exit the labour market with the same occupation and competences after a few decades. member states can and must help by facilitating retraining but also by reducing the tax burden so that workers and employers have more money to invest in knowledge and skills.
mr. president, the european union's strategy for syria is welcome, but i'm afraid it is overdue. the conflict has been anything but black and white from day one, and it's clearly involved the intelligence communities of multiple world powers. so syria has become a global power-testing and power-matching playground, and now someone has to clean up the mess. i'm all for getting involved because the syrian people deserve help, but i really hope we'll be more effective than we've been in the past. western leaders from day one openly sided with the so-called rebels, trying to present them as constructive opposition to the assad regime. it turned out quite the opposite, that they were all just not peaceful and constructive opposition. i hope that in applying this strategy we will not make such grave mistakes because syria cannot tolerate new failed attempts.
mr. president, in syria, in the last six years, more than 400,000 lives have been lost and 11 million have been displaced. six years of war has completely changed the lives of all syrians, but syrian christians are especially vulnerable because they face one choice: convert to islam or die, in the open intention of islamic terrorists to completely eradicate christianity from these areas. from 1.25 million christians in syria before the war began, there are less than 500,000 left today. syria is the sixth most dangerous country to be a christian. the christians who remain in that country are easy targets because they are geographically concentrated in a few places, and almost all the churches are completely destroyed. but the syrian christians do not want to leave their homeland, they want to stay in their homes, and we must not allow christianity to disappear from these areas. a secure and stable syria for all its people that's the kind of syria it has to be. the age of weapons, the explosion of bombs, the constant fear that has been the syrian daily life for the last few years must end. syria deserves peace and the european union can and must do more to achieve peace, especially to protect all human lives, and especially those most at risk, namely christians.
madam president, christians are one of the most endangered communities in the middle east. systematic expulsions, church burnings, terrorist attacks on their communities and the suppression of their existence in these areas have been taking place for years before our eyes. we keep warning about it, we keep discussing it, but somehow the security of middle eastern christians always ends up far behind some other priorities and particular interests. i think we finally have to face the fact that the position of christians in the middle east is much worse than it was before the arab spring and the war in iraq and syria. i'm all for us fighting for our interests, but making sure that we don't push entire regions of the world into chaos. christians in the middle east are also collateral victims of this chaos. if we want to do them good, we have to act, not just warn.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i normally speak english in this house, but will you allow me, to conclude this important debate we have had this evening, not the only time we have had it, to speak in my own language, which is also one of the great languages of the christian community in the world. i don't think latin is included in the translations, so i'll stick with italian. as someone who was born and raised in rome, just a few hundred metres from the vatican, i think you can understand very well the importance of this debate to me tonight and i think you can have full confidence in the determination, commitment and energy that i personally put into the work we have talked about tonight. i would like to end this debate by making just three points. first, the european union has and will maintain human rights, all human rights, at the heart of its foreign policy. it is not the same for all international actors, at this particular moment, but for us it is a beacon of our action in the world. second, we believe that freedom of religion and worship is a fundamental right that must be guaranteed, protected and promoted for all religions and in all areas of the world. this is true for christians in the middle east, this is also true for christians elsewhere in the world, some of them rightly recall the persecutions and attacks on christian communities in other parts of the world, which are equally worrying, linked to different kinds of dynamics, but i would also like to recall, as some colleagues have done this evening, the need to protect all communities and all religions in our europe too. i would like to support those who have stressed the need to prevent and combat islamophobia, particularly in europe, quoting pope francis, who reminded us that europe has the duty to rediscover its capacity to integrate and to always recall, alongside europe's christian roots, the fact that we have other roots and that some can always live alongside others, in respect, tolerance and mutual protection. third point: the situation of christians in the middle east is not just a question of human rights, it is not just a question of tolerance, it is a question first of all of preserving diversity, the diversity of a region, the diversity of a culture, the diversity of a history. i agree with what some of my colleagues said during the debate, that this is a matter of policy and a matter of security, because the disappearance of christian communities from the middle east would change the very nature of middle eastern societies, with a very worrying consequence both from the political and the security point of view. that is why the european union is working every day with the instruments i mentioned at the beginning of our debate to protect the rights of christians in the middle east, as well as to protect the rights of all to profess their religion anywhere in the world. in conclusion, i would like to thank parliament again for the debate and also many member states who are taking initiatives in this direction. some spanish colleagues were reminding us of the important conference to be held in madrid next week, which we discussed with the spanish minister yesterday. i think it is important that we are united in this, united around the fundamental principles that i think we all share and continue to act with a lot of determination and a lot of rationality.
written. will christianity in the middle east disappear? is a question that is being asked more and more. christians once made up 20 percent of the population of the middle east, but today that number has dropped to just 4 percent. the situation is far worse in iraq and syria, but the situation for christians is not much better in other middle eastern countries. egypt is now home to nearly 80 percent of all middle eastern christians, and egyptian christians had a bloody easter this year. while islamic militarism is the main and biggest cause of persecution of christians in most predominantly muslim countries, the strengthening of arab nationalism is also playing a role here, which reinforces discrimination against christians, and the introduction of blasphemy laws further hampers religious freedom. speaking of the sad numbers, i can't help but notice that the plight of christians in the middle east is being used as mere statistics in various political debates, with more discussion about finding fault than concrete solutions to help middle eastern christians.
written. we often ask ourselves, are we ready for the future? can we position europe as a global leader? what are the steps to that? innovation, new technologies, digitisation of business are just some of the answers. new, modern financial technology that is a direct link to the future - virtual currencies, robotic advisory, mobile payments - is making an important contribution to accelerating business and expanding opportunities for entrepreneurs and consumers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial technologies and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new financial technologies. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former eastern bloc, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. without it, fintech cannot be implemented and good decisions about the use of new financial investment services cannot be expected. we need to adapt our education and science systems to the challenges of the future and prepare our young people for the jobs of the future. the european market will already be short of 825,000 it professionals by 2020, and all jobs are becoming highly computerised. we have to be ready for changes in the job market.
madam president, brexit is a major blow to the european union because it has shown that the goodwill of a good part of the citizens cannot be bought with european funds, group visits to european institutions and funding of ngos that spread the positive story about the european union. the result of the referendum was a great sobering after which the heavy words fell. unnecessary, but somewhat understandable. i'm glad things are slowly settling down, because if the united kingdom is leaving the european union, it's not leaving the european continent. our cooperation continues, only in a slightly different form. this form should be defined as soon as possible to mutual satisfaction, but we must avoid harsh words and blackmail. let us remember that the fate of millions of people depends on this agreement and let us not by irresponsible behavior and collecting cheap political points make it difficult for them to envy the situation.
madam president, the very title of "setting the foundation for renewed trust" speaks volumes about what should be the main theme of this summit. for the first time, paolo gentiloni, theresa may, donald tusk and emmanuel macron are going to meet. this is an opportunity for our leaders, mr tusk and mr juncker, to say what our european policy is based on, that we respect the rule of law, democracy, human rights. all the issues you have listed: managing migration flows, open trade, strengthening multilateral institutions, then the concrete implementation of the paris agreement, but also foreign policy issues, concerning above all syria, libya, iran, the situation in ukraine, are topics that i believe will be seriously discussed at this summit and i expect positive results, but above all concrete proposals so that our citizens really feel the benefits of such meetings.
mr president, the single market is often secondary to political integration. unfortunately, the emphasis is on what cannot work, further political integration, and it ignores what can work even better, the single market. this report is certainly a step in the right direction, as we need to ensure that the same rules apply throughout the single market and that services and products are available to all citizens regardless of their place of residence. telecommunications have long been under the absolute protection of the member states, and telecom companies, with their considerable lobbying capacity, have been a major obstacle to the advancement of the european single market. after the abolition of roaming charges, we are now taking the next step with the streaming of internet content services. it's a big and welcome step that will make life easier for the citizens, so i can only welcome it.
mr president, i welcome the report by mr cavada because it represents an important step towards equal access to the internet and content for all citizens of the european union. i certainly agree that consumers with subscriptions to online content services that they have lawfully purchased in their country of habitual residence must also have access to them when they are temporarily in another member state. consumers' access to cross-border portability of online content services will certainly contribute to a better functioning of the internal market, which is primarily based on the free flow of services and goods. i consider it necessary to establish a clear distinction between transferability and cross-border access in order not to jeopardise the sustainability of the financing of the european audiovisual and film sector, which is based on the territoriality of rights.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, commissioner, i ask you to listen carefully because i may be the main culprit in bringing this item back on the agenda today. on friday, april 7th, when the decree came into force, i was returning home from the last strasbourg session and at the border crossing of castel-dragon i was greeted by a two-kilometer column in which i waited for two hours. on saturday morning, i immediately wrote a letter to president juncker and prime minister plenkovic, who did call me after an hour or two and promised to arrange a meeting with prime minister cerar and president juncker. that meeting did indeed take place on april 29, and the result of their conversation was that if the queues were longer than 15 minutes, they would switch from total to targeted checks. the three friends' intentions are good, but they're more about appeasing the citizens' anger than solving the problem of unnecessary gridlock. in practice, this is, after all, subject to the discretion of individuals and is not formalised by any regulation whatsoever. the correct solution is to introduce targeted controls as a rule, as a written rule, especially at border crossings where the security risk is minimal, and to introduce total controls as an exception only in the case of risky intelligence. this regulation 458 does not objectively solve the problem of citizens' security, but it significantly complicates the life of those people who live near the border. i therefore ask the commission to propose a revision of the regulation immediately and to take into account the fact that the targeted controls that have been in practice until recently have proved to be an appropriate solution. and three more absurd. on 15 may, the commission lowered its gdp growth forecast for croatia due to 'unusually long queues at border crossings' as they directly harm tourism, which accounts for 20% of gdp. so the commission proposes regulations on the one hand and then gives a negative forecast of economic growth on the basis of their non-implementation or implementation. the concrete absurdity is what happens when a tourist who has already passed the entry control in istria wants to go on a day trip, for example, to venice. there, he is met by long-term security, making such trips a nuisance rather than a pleasure. i'm sure you agree with me that the main absurdity is that it was easier for us to go from yugoslavia to italy and austria than it is today to go from croatia to slovenia and vice versa, and we are both members of the european union.
madam president, if the long lines continue, they may affect the arrival of tourists in the summer months which will affect the tourism revenue which is very important for your country, said commissioner moscovici. the application of the systemic controls regulation was cited as an important reason for the commission's downgrading of croatia's growth projections. it is paradoxical and unacceptable that the commission should forecast reduced growth as a result of the implementation of a regulation which it proposed. the existing european security mechanisms have shown too many weaknesses after the terrorist attacks, mainly due to the lack of exchange of security information between member states. better cooperation between security systems is a prerequisite for greater security for citizens. political reality requires strengthening the security of the union, but this regulation cannot compensate for fundamental weaknesses. the croatian-slovak land border is not the only crisis point for the implementation of this regulation. longer wait times have also been recorded at the gibraltar border and at airports across the european union. the existing technology is under-capacity and does not allow for the rapid extraction of biometric data, its verification in existing systems and its storage in new systems. also, some members have retained border controls within schengen. all of this calls into question the freedom of movement as a fundamental value of the european union. the agreement between the croatian and slovenian prime ministers is welcome. it's a cure, not a solution. croatia's entry into schengen should also become an operational priority. the unimpeded passage of borders by those who have the right to do so must not be called into question.
madam president, the insane policy of open borders has led to the need for drastic checks today. western europe, which after world war ii had flourished in an oasis of freedom, now had to limit the hard-won freedoms of its citizens because of the terrorist threat it had brought in. i support stronger controls because unfortunately we are at a point of no return, at least until the security issues are resolved, but i would really like to address the causes, not just the consequences. there's a reason we've put in place stronger controls not just on the external borders, but also on the internal borders. croatia is today the victim of these controls, and has in no way contributed to the security chaos in europe. the congestion at our borders is unbearable, which is likely to have a negative impact on the tourist season in a country where tourism accounts for almost 20% of gdp. someone's to blame, some policies have been proven wrong, and i think it's high time we started to correct those mistakes.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, because of the inability of the european union, due to its weak foreign and security policy, to influence the sources of the crisis outside its borders and because of the lack of cooperation to create a security area within its borders, the european union has opted for this bureaucratic measure. however, this measure is not effective for at least two reasons. terrorists are often eu citizens who are subject to more lenient controls, and secondly, terrorists have ways of circumventing this measure. i therefore welcome the proposal of the rapporteur, colleagues who have spoken before me, to ease these controls at the external borders of the european union, but especially to strengthen foreign and security policy and better security cooperation which will make europe safe not only at its borders but within itself.
madam president, i am pleased that this item has been brought on today, not least because 20 members signed the letter to juncker, tusk and avramopoulos on 11 april and that this item has been brought on today because it has become clear that this regulation does not have the effect it was intended to have. it is ridiculous and paradoxical that the european commission's growth estimates related to the gross domestic product in croatia have been reduced precisely because of the situation surrounding the crowding at the croatian borders, which arose as a consequence of the regulation proposed by the european commission and adopted by this parliament. so it's good that there was a trilateral meeting between mr juncker, mr cerar and our prime minister plenkovic which has brought about greater propulsiveness at the borders, which means that after 15 minutes of waiting, it moves from systematic checks to targeted checks. however, i believe and agree with all my colleagues that this is not enough, that this decision should be formalised or that a change in the schengen code should be initiated, because in this way the situation will not change significantly, since it depends on the personal assessment of the individual border officer. i therefore call for this procedure to be initiated, and i believe it will be done. it is also an opportunity to say that one of the main priorities of croatian policy is to enter the schengen area, and i hope we will achieve this very soon. and don't be surprised that almost all croatian representatives have spoken here today because you should know that 20% of croatia's gdp comes from tourism. for us, this regulation is unsustainable, but we are also aware of the need to ensure security at both the external and internal borders of the european union.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what it is. mr chinnici, i wanted to ask you, does it not seem absurd that tourists who come from istria by helicopter to visit venice for a few hours, have to stand in line for two hours to enter the city of venice? i am talking about those who come as tourists, not those who come by land, but those who come by sea. do you not think that this is really absurd and that italy should do something?
madam president, this ordinance was passed in good faith with the intent of combating terrorism, but without regard to the consequences of its application. the result is border congestion and blockade of movement of people and goods, which can particularly affect croatian tourism, fishing and agriculture. it is a political decision, and every political decision in the european union is usually accompanied by a cost-benefit assessment. the commission notes that the measure is not selective, but that it is selective in nature. i therefore propose that funds be provided at european union level to cover the additional, unforeseen cost of the obviously urgently needed reinforcement of administrative and technical capacity at the croatian-slovenian border to the extent that the negative impact of the application of this regulation for croatia is minimised. over 2 million germans, over a million slovenes, a million italians, 800 000 czechs, 750 000 poles, 500 000 french and 500 000 british as well as tourists from other member states and the rest of the world know why they choose croatia for their summer holidays. we are expecting them again this year, but in order for them to decide to spend their summer in croatia, it is necessary to improve the implementation of this regulation, ensure targeted controls and ensure that the wait at the border is no longer than 15 minutes.
madam president, we've been taking in a large number of undocumented immigrants without properly checking who we're taking in. the border control order is just an alibi for the administration in case of further attacks on european soil. if it ensures high-quality control of the external borders and greater security for the citizens of the european union, this would be commendable and worthy of support. but this document is so complex and ambiguous that it is difficult for those who apply it to understand it, because it offers countless possibilities of interpretation and application, and it is not in any way comprehensible and acceptable to the citizens of the european union. in terms of security, it's not making any headway. our actual external borders are still extremely permeable. the effects of this regulation are chaos in traffic within the european union, damage to the economy and harassment of its own citizens. finally, the border between slovenia and croatia cannot and should not be an external border of the european union. if it is treated this way, then croatia is not a full member. croatia fulfils all the criteria for accession to the schengen regime and accession must not be a political issue nor be conditional on a package with other countries. in any event, systematic border control should be suspended immediately.
madam president, it is unquestionable that in the context of the upcoming tourist season croatia will suffer heavy losses in the tourism sector if it does not move to targeted checks of passengers in traffic jam situations and the harmful emissions of vehicles waiting for hours in queues for the environment and the health of citizens is unquestionable. i therefore call on the commission, but also on the croatian and slovenian governments, to find a lasting and effective solution to this problem as soon as possible. however, today the commission called on croatia to better implement information sharing in order to fight terrorism and serious crime. croatia is late with the automatic exchange of data concerning dna, fingerprints and national vehicle registration data. but it is not the only member state to be invited by the commission. it is also important to mention the fact that croatia will only have full access to the schengen information system as of 27 june 2017. if croatia does not start implementing binding measures, if this access to the schengen information system is not achieved, we have to ask why the commission is insisting on systematic border controls?
mr president, the social aspect of road transport is certainly important in the european union, but we must take into account the figure already mentioned by mr kelly, namely that 25% of carbon dioxide emissions come from transport and that it is the only sector in the european union that has not reduced its emissions since 1991. so this importance suggests that we have to look at global competition that is investing in the development of electromobility, that is investing in the development of railways, and where the european union is far behind actually in both the research and the implementation part of these policies. if we look at alternative fuel infrastructure, the directive that obliged the member states of the european union to build that infrastructure, we see that the member states are still lagging behind. and then there's the question of how we're going to use the taxes that we all pay for the emissions that our cars produce to motivate citizens to switch to electric cars or hybrids and thereby actually reduce their emissions to the environment by driving on highways.
the reporter. mr president, ms crețu, cohesion policy is perhaps one of the best examples of how membership of the european union can be a positive thing for less developed member states. the single market and the four fundamental freedoms sound great in theory, but if the member states are too different in their level of economic development, it always seems that someone is taking advantage of someone else. from the less developed member countries, workers are leaving for the more developed ones willing to work for less money than the home-based labor force, which lowers the cost of labor and creates discontent among the local people. on the other hand, the less developed members are losing their working population and thus are entering even deeper into a long-term economic and demographic crisis. reducing these disparities so that they do not encourage excessive waves of migration from the poorer to the richer member states of the union and create discontent among citizens is very important for the future of the european union. cohesion policy has an important role to play in this process, and technical assistance, which we are talking about today, is a quality mechanism for creating the conditions for the good use of funds and the financing of quality projects in the less developed member states. the lack of administrative capacity in less developed member states is a major obstacle to better use of european money. post-communist countries tend to have large administrations in proportion to their population, but they are not sufficiently trained to draw funds from european funds quickly, efficiently and transparently. the changes that are certain to follow in cohesion policy after 2020 could leave the less developed member states unprepared, leaving them permanently unable to catch up with the developed ones. that is why the correct, efficient and transparent use of technical assistance in the next financial period is so important! a new approach based on real decentralisation, good education and, most importantly, evaluation of the projects implemented will create the assumptions that the administration is better able to cope and ensure a greater absorption of money from the european level. at the time of writing the report, i spoke to a number of stakeholders from different member states and noticed the same problem with a few of them. the use of technical assistance is merely a formality that normally takes place at national level. we have to change that. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of central and eastern europe, the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe and the countries of central and eastern europe. time goes by, money goes by, and results go by, and that's probably because there wasn't a proper evaluation system. therefore, i think that the regular updating and public availability of the database of activities that member states intend to undertake or have already undertaken should also be considered. i hope we will learn from past mistakes and really focus on improving future use of technical assistance. the aim is not just to spend money but to use it primarily for those for whom it is intended, and we can only do this if we inform them in good time about the training opportunities offered and create awareness that technical assistance can go a long way in economically uplifting the more passive areas.
mr president, i want to support both reports because they speak very clearly about the importance of cohesion policy as an expression of solidarity within the european union, but also more than that: the chance for development of all those areas that need money than those that have more, and of course i want to emphasise the importance of these reports which speak finally about the role of local and regional selfgovernment. i have had the opportunity to implement hundreds of european programmes and i am aware and know very well how important it is that local and regional authorities have a decisive role in the implementation of these programmes. and so the financial mix that we're talking about here in the financing of various projects is certainly something that is extremely important, but who is going to decide whether technical assistance, grants plus funds from the european investment bank or from the efsi fund or, god forbid, from the private sector are going to be linked in the implementation of a project. it's a very complicated process, but i think we need to be brave and we need to continue on this very path.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues the rapporteurs, mr novak and ms ruži tomašić, and to welcome the commissioner. it is essential that cohesion policy, through financial instruments and technical assistance, also serves citizens and businesses. so we have to listen to what they're telling us, and they say that their financial instruments are quite complicated. even the european court of auditors has said that the costs of managing financial instruments are very high. our answer to that should be trust, not hundreds of pages of new instructions. so we have to be more oriented to outputs and less oriented to input control and that's what's important to respond to what they're asking us to do. the technical assistance must also help to strengthen the governance structures, but also to inform the end-users more about the possibilities of financing their ideas.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this fruitful and very interesting debate. thank you for your contributions. i really share your views that this policy is more important than ever, in times where we have so many divisions. i think it is very important to show solidarity between member states, and this debate shows that together we can make this policy stronger. i would like to make some clarifications because i think there were some misunderstandings. i would like to underline that financial instruments do not lead to reallocation of funds between member states or regions. when financial instruments are used, we do not support banks, we use them to transfer eu resources, with strict rules. synergies are, of course, very important. i would like to thank mr lambert van nistelrooij for [mentioning] this communications idea, a very elaborate document. i am very grateful to the maltese presidency that they also included in the luxembourg meeting the commission’s communications issue, on our debates between ministries for cohesion policy, because it is very important. i am very sorry that mr finch is not here any more because the irony of our policy is that this policy was created because of pressure by the uk, in 1975, when the united kingdom said it would not go to the council in paris if this erdf solidarity fund were not created, because there was the situation with the closure of mines, and it was the european funds, the erdf solidarity fund, which retrained people in new activities. i am very sorry, but i do not know if the people when voting for brexit knew that they had jobs because of the european union. mr finch is right. it is not european money, it is taxpayers’ money, but this money is also going to the uk: in liverpool, as you said, we now have the metro in cardiff ongoing and a lot of big projects, such as the university in manchester. you mentioned the peace programme, which is very important. i am very worried, like you, about this because it was not london, it was not belfast, it was not dublin, but brussels who put the money together for the reconciliation policy. i fully trust that mr barnier, our chief negotiator, will deal with that because this is a very important programme and shows that this policy also has a role in healing the wounds that we have on the map of europe. thank you very much and i will now say a few words in my mother tongue. cred că cei doi raportori au avut un rol important în a sublinia necesitatea de a folosi atât granturile, cât și instrumentele financiare. granturile sunt practic foarte necesare atunci când este vorba de infrastructuri, lucruri, spitale, școli, drumuri, care nu produc neapărat profit imediat, iar instrumentele financiare, domnule novakov, într-adevăr, împărtășesc poziția dumneavoastră, sunt la fel de indispensabile, dar trebuie să ne asigurăm că această combinație se face într-o manieră potrivită, calibrată, eficientă. deci, încurajez toate părțile interesate, cele la nivel național, regional și local, autoritățile de gestiune, băncile - pentru că dânșii au capacitatea și expertiza necesară pentru a găsi acest echilibru între granturi și instrumente financiare. în acest sens, asistența tehnică despre care vorbea atât de mult doamna tomašić este foarte importantă. pentru această perioadă, știți bine că noi, în comisia europeană, am lucrat îndeaproape cu statele membre pentru a ne asigura că vor fructifica această perioadă de finanțare, dar, într-adevăr, sunt de acord cu dumneavoastră că putem mai mult. în ceea ce ne privește, încurajăm toate statele membre, le ajutăm să își îmbunătățească capacitatea administrativă, dar și să stabilească legislația potrivită. așa cum vă spuneam la început, încercăm să identificăm noi priorități pentru asistența tehnică. părerea mea personală și a dg regio este că această asistență tehnică ar trebui devansată la începutul perioadei de finanțare pentru a sprijini din timp pregătirea programelor, pentru a nu mai avea aceste întârzieri pe care le întâmpinăm acum în statele membre, pentru a facilita schimbul de experiență între regiuni și în unirea eforturilor cu nou creatul serviciu de sprijin pentru reforme structurale, pentru a lucra împreună pe teren. aștept cu interes colaborarea noastră în lunile care vin pentru dezbaterile privind bugetul post-2020 pentru a ne asigura că cele 500 de milioane de europeni vor beneficia de politica pe care o merită, pentru a le asigura o viață mai bună pentru ei și pentru copiii lor, este, cred, responsabilitatea noastră ca oameni politici și vă asigur că eu, personal, și serviciile mele vom face tot ce ne stă în putință pentru a ne aduce aportul în această privință. mulțumesc foarte mult.
mr president, i would also like to thank everyone who took part in this debate. i'd like to thank the shadow reporters in particular. this actually shows, when we have a common goal, that we can work very well together because until now, this technical assistance has been like someone selling you a washing machine, and then two years later sending you instructions on how to use that washing machine. so now we have the instructions, we have the machine, so let's get to work.
written. almost thirty years after the entry into force of the single european act (sea) on 1 july 1987, cohesion policy plays a key role in long-term economic growth in the less developed regions of the european union. the anniversary is a good moment for the european parliament to assess the impact and role of the european structural and investment funds. the european commission and the member states have at their disposal eur 14,6 billion of technical assistance under the investment and technical funds for the period 2014-2020. i believe that increasing the funding for technical assistance is a prerequisite for all other economic activities and strategic investments. the establishment of efficient administrative and infrastructural conditions has a highly favourable effect on the development of many economic sectors. in order to preserve the transparency of the allocation of funds and to take into account the regional level, it is necessary to involve and inform citizens, in particular by using technical assistance at national level to train local capacities. i am convinced that better coordination with existing technical assistance services, such as jaspers, can contribute to flexibility in the allocation of funds, which is an appropriate way of dealing with various challenges, such as budgetary difficulties.
the author. mr president, madam commissioner, i welcome you and i would like to begin by expressing my pleasure that this item has been included on the agenda. i would like to thank my colleagues who supported this motion with 43 signatures and i take this opportunity to thank you for the fact that the interpellation has seen the light of day in this plenary session. i am also pleased to have my colleagues from the countries most concerned by these issues here with us today. in any event, what we want to point out is the obvious difference in product quality between the western european market and the central and eastern european market. studies have already been completed in many countries, and this has been proven. in some countries these studies are still being carried out, but in any case there is a clear difference and we want to point to the single european market and we believe that all consumers must have equal rights, that we seek cohesion, we seek equality and that is why we have put this interpellation on the agenda. we would like our children to enjoy the same standards in that common europe for which we have all worked so hard together. my two questions to the commission in this inquiry are: in view of the single market, what measures does the commission intend to take to eliminate the practices of fragmentation of the single market? and the second question: will the commission revise eu legislation to protect consumers by removing double standards in the quality of products sold in central, eastern and western europe? the deadline for reply was 12 april. we didn't get it. that's one of the reasons this item came up. we have also asked for the initiation, or the initiation of a change of legislation, on this issue, and i expect that after the debate this afternoon mrs crețu will perhaps also answer how the commission intends to proceed with this issue. again, thank you to all the colleagues who participated in this and to the colleague from croatia who also started a study on this issue to prove that there really are differences. it's already been proven in slovakia, it's been proven in the czech republic, hungary. our agriculture ministers also supported this question at the council meeting and i trust that you as the commission will also respond to this.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, dear rapporteur, i am glad to speak on behalf of commissioner věra jourová, my colleague, on this very important and so sensitive issue, as you rightly raised. it is very important to discuss it. existing eu legislation aims to ensure a high level of consumer protection, safety, and correct and reliable consumer information. we think that only safe food products are allowed on the eu market – as we said, we have a single market – and of course, consumers must be accurately informed and not misled about the composition and characteristics of food offered for sale. we have general labelling rules and requirements to that effect, and it is eu legislation which ensures that producers have to make a complete list of ingredients that enables the consumers to be fully informed of the composition of the food product. this being said, as long as products comply with eu legal requirements and their labelling does not mislead consumers as to the main characteristics, companies are not prevented from differentiating products according to the market. there is no legal basis, unfortunately, at eu level to challenge differences in food composition in individual member states, as long as the relevant food information is not misleading. however, should a trader advertise a product as being the same in several member states, but at the same time deliberately reduce the quality of the product in some of these countries compared to others, this practice could be addressed under the directive on unfair commercial practices by the competent national authority. eu consumer law allows national enforcement authorities or courts to end specific misleading commercial practices if they consider that they are harming consumers. after the investigations and many events coming from this house, the commission has called on member states to provide further data and evidence in order to assess the existence and extent of these alleged practices and possible reasons for them. so far, the commission has received 21 replies from the member states. according to the received replies, the issue of dual quality is considered a big problem, especially in the czech republic, hungary, slovakia and croatia. the main products concern food, laundry detergents and pet food. the investigations carried out in several countries showed said the labelling of these products corresponds to their composition. in other member states there is no particular data or evidence related to the issue of dual quality so far. in order to tackle this important issue, more cooperation among enforcement agencies is needed, so as to elaborate an objective mapping and to compare products sold in several member states. the commission intends to provide the results of this mapping for the next sherpa meeting of the high-level forum for a better functioning of the food supply chain on 20 june, in line with a conclusion of the european council of 9 march 2017. this forum will enable, for the first time, an exchange of views between all concerned actors, such as consumer representatives, industry at various stages of the supply chain, member states’ authorities and the commission. some of you have called on the commission to propose a specific legislation to prohibit dual quality. in our view, the reinforcement of existing laws should be strengthened in the first place. i trust that the on-going debate on the process of collecting evidence will raise the awareness of all concerned players on the issue and help address it to the benefit of all european citizens and consumers. on our part, we will build on the results of the consultation of national authorities and the outcome of debate in the high-level forum. i am looking forward for our debate.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i must say that i am very pleased to have you here, madam commissioner, because i believe that you are very sensitive to the subject we are discussing. of course, i would like to start by thanking my colleagues who have been raising this very, very topical issue for months. and it's problematic for one simple reason. it calls into question our entire credibility. the credibility of the whole system that we've created in the european union, the agencies that we've created in the european union, all that means of control and monitoring within the european union. we can't have first-class citizens and second-class citizens. well, ladies and gentlemen, we have pets of the first and second order of appearance in the european union. i think that's definitely not believable. i therefore call on the commission to think carefully and to start drafting new regulations as soon as possible. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card on the basis of rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i agree with you, mr scholtes, and i must say that this is the kind of neutral research that mrs borzan is doing partly at the moment and is financing from her own resources, but it was just proposed by mrs von thun und hohenstein. i think that's exactly the way to go. institutions should do this research, not just the mps and mps who want to really do their best to show the correctness of these views of ours.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am particularly pleased that we are discussing today a subject which is of such importance and emotional importance to many citizens of the european union. at first, my colleague olga sehnalová and i were a bit alone in discussing this issue, but i am glad that more and more meps are joining in. i started a research project in croatia on different quality, the first one covering, besides food, hygiene products. we have previously conducted a survey which showed that more than 80% of citizens believe that eastern markets are marketed with products of lower quality than western ones. ladies and gentlemen, we are in a single european market which knows no borders. we are in a european union that is fiercely committed to equality and equity for all its citizens. that is why, if all the studies show that there is a difference in quality, it is up to us to do our best to ensure that there are no first- and second-class citizens of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank colleagues biljana borzan and dubravka šuica for launching this initiative, which i supported, and i would particularly like to thank all those colleagues who have organised the research, the parallel comparison of products, which have definitely shown, for now, that there is a clear difference in the key foods between some products in the east and in the west, in particular food and hygiene products. but this issue is not new, this issue has been going on for ten years, this issue has been going on for ten years and of course it is creating mistrust among the institutions of the european union which are not able to solve this issue. it is therefore high time that this was done, because it is a breach of one of the fundamental principles of the union, namely the common market. i call on the commission to take all measures to remedy these shortcomings, including the necessary legislative measures.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the authors for a quality article and my colleagues for a quality discussion on a very important topic. the overall strategy of the european union for foreign and security policy and the strengthening of the resilience and capacity of partner countries put the priorities of the european union's external action in focus for us, so that they themselves are able to solve the internal and external crises they face and ensure the normal functioning of civilian activities and enhance development effectiveness. what i think is important is that the existing instruments of aid must be used more effectively. it is important to emphasise that better coordination of the instruments for the external action of the european union with the financial instruments of other international development institutions should be ensured. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission. but before that, analysis and possible overlap in funding needs to be done before better coordination can be achieved. i am hereby asking the commission what it intends to do about this matter.
mr. president, i strongly condemn all forms of violence and hate speech. violence and hate speech are completely contrary to european values and the european union must do everything to eradicate them. this resolution is just one step along that path. it unites us and puts the fight against anti-semitism in the european union as one of our priorities. but we must think about what lies at the root of modern anti-semitism. many of our jewish friends see the rise of anti-semitism in europe as a direct attack on the state of israel itself. we also need to be clear about this and we need to be stronger in supporting the pursuit of peace in the middle east. it is necessary to establish effective legal mechanisms to identify and prosecute perpetrators of hate crimes and to ensure the protection of jews as citizens of the european union and their right to freedom of religion. religious hate crimes are on the rise in europe. freedom of religion is one of the fundamental values we have in europe and one that we must preserve.
written. the digitalisation of european industry has led to changes in production and consumption patterns, business models and has thus increased global competition as a consequence of new technologies such as the fifth generation of networks (5g). it is undeniable that the european union must ensure that its industry is competitive and sustainable through knowledge, research and development, but also through the single european market, which is a major advantage for progress. the eu needs a common approach by the member states based on ensuring efficient infrastructure, promoting research and development and additional investment to achieve global industrial modernisation. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission in order to ensure that the security aspects of the digital economy are taken into account.
written. in today's global competition for new technological advances such as 5g networks, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and robotics, the question we ask is how to integrate them into business models, value chains, production and consumption in the most sustainable and socially acceptable way? the eu must respond to this by sustainably innovating and adapting its education system to remain competitive and become a leader in the new industrial revolution. in this area, the eu's strengths are its specific know-how, its linked and targeted r & d investment, its large single market, its strong industrial base and its experience in linking production and services. the key to progress is the education of workers and the acquisition of it skills, because without people with the necessary skills, there is no significant shift in the digitisation of industry. digitalisation also means the need for different jobs and new skills. only with a well-adapted education and science system can we prepare our citizens for the digital age that is no longer the future. combining digital skills with vocational education and engineering skills, smart specialisation, connecting smes, industrial entities, start-ups, scientists and researchers is the right way to adapt to change. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the digital divide in the union.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, modern technology unfortunately makes life easier not only for law-abiding citizens but also for those who deliberately ignore it. organized crime is often a pioneer in adopting new technologies that it uses to stay one or two steps ahead of the security community. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. but our cooperation on visa policy must not only apply to foreign nationals coming to the european union, but also to our own citizens travelling outside europe. i would remind you that not all member states have a visa-free regime with the united states and that is a kind of discrimination that we must address as soon as possible. there can be no first- and second-class state in the union.
mr president, in recent years, counterfeit visa stickers have appeared in several member states. according to experts, the current label is no longer safe. this is not surprising given that the current security concept of the uniform visa form dates back to 1995 when it was developed within the framework of interstate schengen cooperation. everything has been modified twice, and the safety circumstances and technological standards have changed completely since then. improving entry controls into the european union is becoming dramatically linked to the issue of protecting citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. that is why i support the development of a new visa sticker with advanced security features to prevent counterfeiting and to make illegal immigration more difficult. new security threats are increasingly a challenge not only to national but also to european and global institutions. they will define the character of the union in the first decades of this century. they are already increasingly shaping citizens' awareness of the need for closer security sector cooperation between member states. the european union must finally confront the deterioration of security conditions within and beyond its borders, first by helping member states to cooperate and exchange information better, and second by stabilising conflicting political communities in the neighbourhood. security must not remain the weakest link in european integration, and this proposal is a step in the right direction.
mr president, the elderly who are temporarily or permanently incapable of taking care of themselves are one of the particularly vulnerable groups towards which any mature society feels a special obligation. we often talk in this home about the positive rights of the various social groups that make up healthy adults, capable of work and functioning unhindered in society. i'm glad to discuss today also those for whom our solidarity is a basic prerequisite for a normal life. the protection of vulnerable adults in the exercise of their freedom of movement is a particular challenge due to the still existing fragmentation of justice systems in europe. the promotion of full recognition of protection measures adopted by the competent authorities of one member state in all other member states and the sharing of information on the protection status are key recommendations of this report which i can only welcome. their full implementation will provide vulnerable adults with a higher level of legal certainty and is therefore a step in the right direction.
madam president, i could not support this recommendation in the vote because i do not think that it meets the current needs of european citizens and states in this form. when it comes to fundamental rights, the focus is once again on migrants, refugees and certain minority groups, rather than on all eu citizens and those who have come to europe legally to escape danger, to study and to work. millions of europeans today are socially excluded, marginalised by the processes of economic globalisation and live in neglected environments that have not yet overcome the crisis. and while that is the case, i don't see why we should focus exclusively on minority groups and immigrants and further deepen the gap between them and the native population.
madam president, the challenges that the developing countries faced 20 years ago are now, after many years of prosperity, also relevant in our european countries. poverty, insecurity and social exclusion are commonplace for millions of europeans. i will always support the constructive role of the european union in the poorest parts of the world and all positive efforts to get them back on their feet, free of imperialist ambitions and exploitative intentions, so that we can trade on an equal footing and prosper together. but i am of the opinion that the union's role in the world must not eclipse the role it must play at home. the eu must encourage member states to make it easier for people to do business and get a job, and to invest in infrastructure so that all parts of europe are well connected and live in a way that is fit for the 21st century.
mr president, investing in research, development and innovation is investing in the future of our children. thanks to technological advances, the world is rapidly moving forward, old status and wealth are becoming less important, and new markets are growing and displacing old ones. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions. i support horizon 2020 because i believe that research and innovation are areas where public investment is necessary and justified. however, we must also work to attract private investment and i am so glad that the rapporteur has recognised this. but i cannot agree with the recommendation that we give priority to funding climate change research as the united states is considering budget cuts in this area. our strategy for investing in r&d and innovation must be based on our needs and long-term goals, not on the day-to-day politics of other global actors.
mr president, the basic idea of the european union is open political cooperation and free economic exchange between countries that are naturally drawn to each other, share the same values and want to achieve the same goals in the future. for this to be possible, european nation states must have roughly similar starting positions, because otherwise old animosities and the feeling that there are those who profit and those who are exploited in this relationship will be reawakened. if we get to that point, the idea of european integration will be seriously compromised. the key role of cohesion policy is precisely to ensure a similar starting position for all, despite the different historical circumstances in which the current member states have developed. the aim is to create a europe of equal opportunities based on the principle of solidarity, and we must not give up on this. cohesion policy must be preserved despite political crises such as brexit, it must be free of administrative barriers and simplified to the maximum. we need to integrate funds from different funds and prepare programmes in advance at regional and member state level to avoid a repeat of the bad experience of the previous financial period. i also support the strengthening of administrative capacity, but i stress that this should not mean an increase in the size of the administration, but an increase in its efficiency. we must avoid further bureaucratization at all costs!
the situation of fish stocks in the mediterranean is not good, mr president, and this has been fostered by the policies which have been pursued in the past, which have taken a one-dimensional view of fisheries. the shift that is already taking place in fisheries policy must be based on scientific research, concrete data and an open dialogue with all fishermen and their representatives. last year, this house overwhelmingly approved my report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fisheries in fisheries-dependent areas. but the commission is still deaf to this house's call for the amendment of the mediterranean regulation, whose full implementation has significantly damaged the fisheries sector in croatia and pushed thousands of families into a difficult existence. we cannot allow fishermen to blame each other for this situation because it takes us away from the solution. i therefore join the rapporteur, mr affronte, in calling for a clear definition of certain types of fishing and, on the basis of scientific research, for an assessment of their impact on the state of fish stocks and the environment in general. only then can we devise and implement good policies that balance the interests of all fishermen and, of course, the conservation of marine resources. i congratulate my colleague, mr affronta, on a brilliant report which i will of course support in the vote.
written. the mediterranean sea is one of the most biodiverse areas in the world, and has a significant socioeconomic impact on coastal populations and directly contributes to food security. in addition, a large number of local communities depend on small-scale, traditional, artisanal and recreational fisheries, which represent a major socio-economic and tourist value and have a significant impact on employment. however, the mediterranean also faces serious problems of overfishing, increasing maritime traffic, densely populated coasts and increasing pollution that require a joint response based on cooperation at all levels, from international to local. i believe that special attention should be paid to the restoration and maintenance of fish stocks in order to preserve the biodiversity and natural wealth of the mediterranean sea. in addition, it is necessary to apply environmental, economic and social criteria, respecting the precautionary approach in terms of the protection of cultural, historical and traditional heritage, socio-economic circumstances, while preventing unreported, illegal and irregular fishing. i believe that the effective implementation of the guidelines for the sustainable and responsible management of marine resources requires strong comprehensive measures and policies. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the establishment of a european fisheries fund to support the fisheries sector in the mediterranean. of course, this must be accompanied by the collection and sharing of scientific data, and a high level of accountability and awareness.
written. the gender pension gap in many eu member states is a matter of serious concern. as part of a comprehensive strategy to fight for gender equality in all spheres of life, the harmonisation of pension systems is of particular importance for all members of society who are at higher risk of poverty due to the systematic restriction of their rights. the gap in average pre-tax income received as a pension in 2014 was 39,4% in the 65+ age group and we note a dramatic increase in these figures in more than half of the member states in the last five years. the lower pensions of women are a direct consequence of the gender pay gap, which, despite union equality legislation, is still widespread in the member states of the european union. i support this bill because of the consistent and urgent need to change the gender pension gap. the european union cannot tolerate systematic discrimination against women. pensions are the main source of income for one in four eu citizens. the dramatic situation of the pensioner will worsen if we do not first raise public awareness of the existing shortcomings and then take all necessary measures to remove the existing obstacles.
mr president, cohesion policy has made a major contribution to boosting growth and employment and reducing the growing disparities between the regions of the european union. eu cohesion policy funding has a positive impact on the economy and the lives of citizens, but the results have not always been good and awareness of the positive effects remains quite low. awareness of local funding programmes for end-users and civil society is crucial, irrespective of the level of funding in a given region, as the added value of the european union's cohesion policy goes beyond positive economic, social and territorial impact. increasing the visibility of the european structural investment funds can contribute to improving the perception of the effectiveness of cohesion policy and to restoring citizens' trust in the european project. i support strengthening the partnership and the importance of european funds through new ways of communicating the results of cohesion policy on the ground, all with the aim of increasing its visibility, providing a clear message to citizens, and restoring confidence in the common vision of the european project.
mr president, the european union's seventh research programme, with €55 billion available, has demonstrated that research and development of the latest technologies is a key priority for further economic growth in the union. the programme's initiatives and investments benefit not only all member states of the union, but also candidate countries and non-union members of the european economic area. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi) and the european neighbourhood instrument (enpi). i support the conclusions of the report, congratulate the commission on the successful completion of the research programme to 2020, but also support the proposal to extend the new mechanisms established under horizon 2020, such as the flat-rate for indirect costs, the single control method and the single list of all institutions participating in the programme, thus extending to other structural funds.
mr president, (the beginning of the speech is not available - the presentation began before the microphone was switched on) ... of the framework programme for research and innovation is still ongoing, although it is a programme from the period 2007 and 2013, so that a final audit and evaluation could not yet be made, but what is missing is an analysis of the cost-effectiveness of the programme, and this report is precisely about the cost-effectiveness of the seventh research and innovation programme. i supported the report because, despite the absence of a cost-effectiveness evaluation, it underlines the importance of this programme, which has fostered scientific excellence at eu level, innovation, economic integration, enhanced european competitiveness and contributed to building the european union as a global leader. the report also makes very important recommendations that we really need to implement, such as the establishment of a joint support centre to help coordinate the implementation of the programme across the seven commission departments and also to increase the role of the national contact points, so that the end-users have the best possible technical support on the ground.
mr. president, stateless people around the world are condemned to a life of utter disenfranchisement, often on the margins of society. they cannot obtain a qualification, have health insurance, legally work, marry, or enjoy a host of other civil and political rights. the situation of persons in many countries in south and south-east asia is of particular concern, and our knowledge of the number of persons who are not citizens of the country where they were born and spent their lives is limited, given that such data are very poorly collected or published in some countries in the region. while the current situation of stateless people can be attributed to inefficient administration, serious problems arise where a group of people is marginalized for political purposes. the systematic discrimination against minorities, such as in myanmar, constitutes a serious violation of human rights and the union must do everything to improve the situation of vulnerable groups in the region, including the recognition of these persons as citizens of their home country. i support the motion because of the crucial importance of the issue of stateless people. we need to clearly identify where there is systemic discrimination and where there is a lack of administrative capacity and, depending on the circumstances, take the necessary measures.
the interim evaluation of horizon 2020 is of the utmost importance for the better preparation of the new ninth framework programme for research and innovation beyond 2020. it is important that we reach out to users, scientists and entrepreneurs during the evaluation, because we need to hear their voices and respond to their needs. they are asking for faster implementation, they are asking for simplification, more funds for smes, they are asking for linking with the esi funds and for aligning the rules so that as many projects as possible can be financed, because we know that many do not receive funding from horizon. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and actions in the field of climate change, in particular through the european climate action programme.
mr president, i support the report on the foundations of the european union's cohesion policy beyond 2020 because one of the union's key tasks is to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity among its different regions and member states. the implementation of these objectives is ensured through the european cohesion policy, which is also the main investment policy of the european union. i think that the main emphasis should be on retaining the amount of appropriations in the next budgetary framework. i expect simplification and more flexible policies, i.e. easier programming, management and evaluation of operational programmes. in particular, i stress that cohesion policy after 2020 should cover all the regions of the european union and recognise their specificity. i am pleased that my amendments, which call for the recognition of the special status of the european islands, have been adopted, because it must be easier for islands and islanders to withdraw funds from the cohesion fund. in conclusion, the european union needs a strong, clear and inclusive cohesion policy beyond 2020, which will strengthen the european identity based on common european values.
mr president, unfortunately i did not support mrs vesval's report today, because i believe that european funds should be the wind at the back of the implementation of well-designed development programmes and reforms at national level. if a country doesn't have its own plan and programme for change and development and doesn't achieve results and long-term growth, then european funds only help to slow down the decline and divergence that is inevitable, and we don't want that. european funds must be integrated into good growth and development programmes and must be added value. that is why i am very much in favour of the future of cohesion policy, of strengthening cohesion policy in the future, but it must be linked to good economic governance. i also ask the european commission to adopt the regulation for the new period as soon as possible, so that member states can prepare for implementation in time and have projects in place as soon as the new perspective begins.
madam president, the completion and strengthening of economic and monetary union is essential because it is the way to achieve the objectives that are important to us all, namely the growth and development of the european union, the creation of new jobs, economic convergence, financial stability. the first step on this path is, as many colleagues have pointed out, the quality implementation of existing rules. but i would also add modifications and adjustments in areas where analysis shows that it would be useful and necessary we should not be afraid to be flexible. member states outside emu need to be supported and helped in this important integration, especially those that apply all the rules and meet almost all the criteria, like croatia, where i come from. all the member states need to be involved in the decision-making on the future of emu, to be at the meetings of the eurogroup, if we are serious about their integration being secure in the near future.
mr president, i expect transparency, credibility and trust from institutions whose work is financed by the taxpayers of the member states. this also applies to the work of the european food safety authority and the european chemicals agency. the agency should ensure that the union's citizens have a high quality of life without health risks from the products they use every day. the publication of monsanto's correspondence in the united states court cases that have been flooding the media in recent months, concerning more than 60 health claims and the occurrence of non-hodgkin's lymphoma associated with the use of the active substance glyphosate in plant protection products, has undermined the credibility of the us health and environmental protection agencies due to doubts about the reliability of certain studies used in risk assessment. the commission has also concluded that the use of glyphosate in the food industry is not a risk to human health and the environment. i expect a rapid response to the questions raised, and suggestions for improvements to the procedures that would make the safety assessment procedures for biocides more credible.
madam president, yemen is one of the poorest arab countries in the world, and the unrelenting war is only deepening the already unsustainable situation in the country. the immediate consequences of armed conflict are far-reaching and, if not addressed, pose a direct threat to the entire population. for this war-torn population faces even greater disaster in the form of disease, especially the outbreak of cholera. the emergence and spread of cholera directly threatens millions of people who already live in desperate conditions. in the last month alone, more than 100,000 people have succumbed to this plague, and reports from numerous humanitarian groups indicate that one person dies of cholera every hour in yemen. the frightening fact is that the sick are unable to seek help from medical personnel or to find refuge in hospitals, because hospitals are unable to care for cholera victims because of the number of war casualties. stabilization of this area is no longer just a priority that does not tolerate a moratorium, but has become alarmingly important with the outbreak of cholera and requires extreme speed of action.
mr. president, i'm not satisfied with serbia's progress, if it can be called progress at all. cosmetically, things may change, but not fundamentally. this will ultimately lead to a growing distrust of the european union in serbia, but also of the citizens of serbia in the european union. i am even more dissatisfied with the commission's position that it allows the whole range of open issues that serbia has with croatia, concerning human rights, property rights and respect for international treaties and conventions, to be left out of these negotiations. of all these issues, only the border dispute is a genuine bilateral issue in which the commission should not interfere. i also see no need to establish a regional commission to establish the facts about war crimes and other serious human rights violations. we've had two decades of war crimes trials and the facts are well known, only serbia has successfully ignored them. this commission would create chaos and give serbia an additional reason to default.
mr. president, i congratulate my colleague mcallister on the progress report serbia has made in the past year. the opening of the first eight chapters, the remarkable economic growth and the improved overall legislative framework are certainly worth mentioning. however, in many areas, we are still seeing a lack of progress, even a deterioration, this year, despite changes in legislation. first of all, media freedom is under threat in serbia today, the fight against corruption and organised crime is not sufficiently effective, the necessary strengthening of the rule of law is not noted, as is the implementation of the recently adopted action plan on respect for minority rights and human rights, full cooperation with the international court of justice in the hague is lacking and better alignment with the european union's foreign policy is lacking. all of this is part of the "to do" list that serbia needs to cut. in addition, it would be incomplete to talk about the influential events in serbia without mentioning the recent protests of mostly young people after the presidential elections. the reasons for their discontent are cause for concern. they claim that the election results have brought only a formal change of function. the adequate contribution to better relations with neighbours and the resolution of remaining bilateral issues, such as the determination of the fate of the missing or the succession, are also of paramount importance in the process of serbia's progress. for serbia, progress in the process of normalisation with kosovo, which has been too volatile and stagnant, is of particular importance. there is no doubt that addressing the problems of the past would open up space for cooperation on issues of a common european future.
mr president, serbia deserves a clear and secure european perspective. serbia has taken a number of steps which are positive and should be taken into account. i support this report, i support what commissioner hahn is doing and i believe that this is for the well-being and stability of all the countries in the balkans, because serbia is a very important factor in all of this. but i want to point out that the presidential election has brought in a new president. he should be congratulated on his election, but it should be noted that there have been a series of protests since then, which show primarily discontent in serbia. a smart government will open a dialogue. the problems of the judiciary, the problems of media freedom, the problems of minorities, the necessary regional cooperation are all elements of what we expect from serbia. and finally, let's not have any illusions, the majority of serbian citizens are for the european union, but the vast majority of serbian citizens are not for nato. and aligning security policy will be very difficult in that context.
mr. president, i want to thank mr. mcallister for this balanced and objective report. we all agree tonight that serbia has made some progress in the process of joining the european union, but for areas such as the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, it can be said that they have not yet come to life in practice. in any case, there are still visible shortcomings. more efforts are needed to combat corruption and organised crime, which remain obstacles to economic and social development, but media freedom is also under threat. we have repeatedly stressed the need for the normalisation of relations with kosovo, where serbia is expected to be more involved, and that it is also very important for serbia to align its foreign and security policy with the european union's policy. i'm thinking particularly of their relationship with russia. as regards good neighbourly relations, bilateral issues with other countries, in particular croatia, must be resolved as soon as possible. they need to be resolved urgently in order to make regional cooperation possible and for serbia to continue building its european future. serbia simply needs to adjust its foreign policy to european policy, deepen dialogue with kosovo and increase efforts to resolve all remaining bilateral issues. i agree with mr hokmarek that we must discuss this and that it is much better to allow serbia to open a chapter and thus move closer to the union than to prevent it. of course we agree, aware of what croatia has been through, but we are looking for fair criteria and fulfillment of the criteria, as we have done.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague david mcallister on an excellent balanced report which recognises serbia's progress towards membership of the european union and its values as the only way forward and guarantee of peace, stability and security throughout the western balkans. the report, as the rapporteur has pointed out, not only highlights the progress made but also identifies weaknesses that need to be addressed in order for serbia to meet the criteria for membership of the european union. this includes the implementation of key reforms in the areas of the rule of law, an independent judiciary and a free media, and the fight against corruption and organised crime. in addition to meeting the criteria for membership of the european union, it is necessary to settle open bilateral disputes with neighbouring countries, first of all with the republic of croatia. the question of missing persons during the war, the opening of archives, the settlement of border issues, and the question of serbia's regional jurisdiction are some of the open issues that need to be resolved. i would also like to make a special point of addressing the issue of education in the mother tongue of the croatian national minority in serbia and providing textbooks in croatian and content adapted to them. i consider this to be a necessary precondition for the preservation of the identity and rights of minorities, which is also one of the fundamental conditions for serbia's accession to the european union. the resolution of open bilateral issues is not there to prevent or block serbia on its path to the european union, but their resolution will create a prerequisite for lasting good neighbourly relations and stability of relations between croatia and serbia.
written. i am pleased that this report calls on serbia to make further efforts to address the scope, implementation and effects of the law on the organisation and competence of state bodies in war crimes proceedings, by which serbia has taken on the role of the little hague. the law poses a threat to croatian defenders who are on serbia's blacklist as well as to former kosovo prime minister ramush haradinaj. however, i regret that the repeal of the contested articles of the law has not been made a condition for serbia to open negotiations and therefore i call on the commission to insist on the repeal of articles 2 and 3 of this law during the negotiations on chapter 23. i once again warn against the systematic discrimination of croats in serbia and the denial of their minority rights such as providing education and media programs in croatian. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the schengen acquis to third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last week the elections for the kosovo assembly were held and i would like to emphasise here that the turnout was only 41%. if we know that unemployment in kosovo is very high, among young people and above 50%, these two facts point to a danger, not only a loss of confidence in the domestic political structure, which is certainly not good. low levels of citizen participation make it difficult to deliver good policies, but so does the risk of losing trust in the european union. whether the results of the elections, which, with all the difficulties that mrs lunacek has mentioned as rapporteur, have been generally correct, but whether the results of the elections are such as to make it easier to solve the problems that kosovo is facing internally and externally, is, of course, a question. so, despite all the efforts made by the kosovo government, and by the european union as well, progress in many areas is very weak or almost non-existent, which again threatens the danger that here in the european union, in the member states, in the electorate, in the european parliament, support for the accession of kosovo and the other western balkan countries to the european union will also be lost. so this is a very delicate situation. i appeal to the european commission, to my fellow members not to lose their momentum, not to lose their confidence, and in addition to all these programmes which the commission has developed, the programme for connectivity, energy links, i call on the commission to develop other programmes of joint cooperation between the countries of the western balkans.
mr. president, i would like to congratulate rapporteur urlika lunacek on her dedicated work on this report as well as on her excellent cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs. the adoption of this resolution was delayed due to the call for extraordinary parliamentary elections, which speaks to the political dynamics in the youngest european country. kosovo is a vivid example of a post-conflict society where key protagonists fail to resolve the accumulated points of conflict. last year, even in important institutions of the democratic order, such as parliament, political polarization could take on a violent character. the situation in kosovo is strongly affected by poor social and economic conditions, in particular high youth unemployment, a weak judicial system subject to political pressure, pressures on the media and a lack of effective fight against organised crime and corruption. however, all these burdens can be removed over time if the kosovo authorities actively use the opportunities of the stabilisation and association agreement and fulfil the obligations of the european reform agenda. the european future of kosovo will be determined by the attitude of politics, but also of the whole society, according to the events of the recent past that will be dealt with by the hague office of the special investigator for war crimes committed during the aggression against kosovo. the authorities in pristina are also faced with the challenge of a more productive continuation of the talks with belgrade. both sides of the negotiation must overcome mutual animosity as well as internal resistance to a process that has no real alternative. i mean, it's better not to think about her. as chairman of the joint parliamentary delegation to kosovo, i want to emphasise that political divisions have not affected our work. moreover, all members of the delegation gave their full contribution and we adopted the joint recommendations without much difficulty. on this basis, i hope that the conditions for visa waiver for kosovo citizens will be met and that we will finally ratify in the european parliament the decision on their free movement within the european union. kosovo deserves unwavering european support, and its best expression would be recognition by the remaining member states that have not yet done so.
mr. president, i thank the rapporteur, lunacek, for this report. the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo entered into force on 1 april last year and is certainly a positive step in the process of kosovo's accession to the european union. it is also the first contractual relationship between the european union and kosovo. although kosovo has introduced many legislative reforms, the rule of law, concrete and effective implementation remain questionable. the commission's progress report highlighted, among other things, the polarised political environment and the disruption of parliamentary activities. the delay in parliament has prevented kosovo from ratifying the delimitation agreement with montenegro, which is one of the conditions set by the european union for visa liberalisation. so further effort is needed. kosovo is still in the early stages of preparation in many areas, such as reforms of the public administration, the judiciary, the fight against corruption and the development of a functioning market economy. i therefore believe that this report by the european parliament can be a good incentive for the new kosovo government to continue negotiations with the european union. i take this opportunity to call on the other members of the european union who have not recognised kosovo to recognise kosovo in order to give impetus to european integration and to kosovo's european future and prospects.
mr president, i express my clear support for kosovo's european path, the first step of which was taken by the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement in april 2016. kosovo still has a lot of work to do, reforms need to be carried out, and kosovo needs support along the way. first and foremost, they should be supported by serbia, which represents their biggest threat. the republic of serbia shall refrain from interfering in the internal affairs of the state of kosovo and from provoking provocative activities and using extreme and provocative rhetoric. the results of the early parliamentary elections held two days ago, which were won by the coalition led by former prime minister ramush haradinaj, against whom serbia issued an arrest warrant under the law on the organization and competence of state bodies, clearly demonstrate the will of the citizens of kosovo. it is also a message to serbia to stop abusing the controversial law. serbia and kosovo must find a common language and channels for cooperation and this must be a condition of the european path for both countries.
mr. president, kosovo is at a critical stage of its statehood. the state exists, it is recognized by 111 un member states and it must provide all of its citizens with all of the services that are expected of the state. on the other hand, there are constant blows against the statehood of kosovo, primarily from serbia, and this makes it very difficult for this young state to develop. the european union's attitude towards kosovo is deeply unfair, because we are promising it a european perspective, and we have not even secured international recognition from all the member states of the union. if individual members do not recognize kosovo as an independent state, how will they welcome it into the union? we are also sending the wrong message to serbia, which will do everything it can to join the eu without recognising kosovo. if we allow that, we will introduce a major problem into this community. i think we have enough of them and this one needs to be resolved before these two countries become members.
the commission has also proposed that the european investment bank (eib) should be established as a new entity, with a mandate to provide financial support to the eib in the form of grants, loans and guarantees. i must admit that from day one it was not clear to me how the commission intends to ensure that public investment reinforces the effect of private investment if it has not first ensured a more favourable climate for private investment. as is usually the case when a large injection of taxpayers' money into the economy is planned, many projects could be financed without union guarantees and the decision-making process was rather opaque. the geographical spread of investments is also a concern, as by the end of june 2016, as much as 91% of the funds were allocated to the eu-15 countries. such things undermine the credibility of the union and its programmes because they give the impression that some members are profiting at the expense of others. if we are to avoid such interpretations and raise the profile of the european union, the implementation of the european fund for strategic investments must be much better.
madam president, the efsi is meeting its objective, which is to raise the level of investment. however, we want more than that. we want growth, development and high growth and development rates in the european union and new jobs. for that we need the other two pillars of the investment plan for europe. the first pillar is to identify good and quality projects that are innovative and risky. do we currently finance such projects and have we found the right ones for efsi funding? and the other pillar that still remains is strengthening the single market and creating a favourable environment for our entrepreneurs and investors. the european commission cannot do this alone. this requires coordination and work with member states, and i therefore call on the commission to strengthen its links and links with member states to make the investment plan for europe a reality.
madam president, children are one of those vulnerable groups that a mature society must take special care of. according to eurostat data from december 2016, one in four children is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. the child poverty survey and the strategy for coping with household poverty in croatia show that the relative poverty rate of children in our country is about 7% higher than the european union average. the data are alarming, but we must not let them guide us only to the adoption of new expensive social policies, but we must primarily take care to create the conditions for employment and the creation of well-paid jobs, in order to achieve greater employment of parents and increase their wages. this is impossible with the high tax burden needed to fund expensive social policies, and we must be careful not to fall into that trap. children can live with dignity only if their parents earn a decent income from their work.
author. – madam president, the joint motion for a resolution relates to the case of the azerbaijani journalist afgan mukhtarli, who was subjected to forced disappearance in georgia, resurfaced in baku a few hours later, and ended up in prison. we spoke to his wife this morning. the text produced by several groups is a solid one and critical of azerbaijan as well as georgia. as regards azerbaijan we criticise the human rights situation and the ongoing crackdown on ngos, human rights activists and journalists. we demand the immediate release of mr mukhtarli as well. however, we have been requested by commissioner hahn to postpone the vote on the resolution. he will be in baku on friday. the adoption of the resolution, as he said, will make his mission virtually impossible. as saving face is usually very important for the azerbaijani side, the commissioner might encounter additional difficulties in baku. indeed, postponing the vote could serve as additional leverage for the commission. i strongly support postponing the vote and silent diplomacy instead of having this resolution adopted today.
mr. president, the death penalty and blasphemy law in pakistan particularly affect, of course, journalists and human rights defenders and minorities alike. it is particularly concerned that among the victims of such policies and provisions of law in pakistan are minors, i.e. persons below the age of majority. i want to specifically highlight, draw attention and express concern about the pressure by the pakistani authorities on the internet platforms, facebook and twitter, to reveal the identity of the users of these platforms so that people can be prosecuted for blasphemy and the possible threat of death penalty. i welcome the adoption of the human rights action plan in pakistan and hope that this action plan will help improve the human rights situation in pakistan and address the issue of the death penalty and blasphemy laws.
mr. president, the problem of christians in recent years has been steadily increasing as the number of countries in which it occurs. news of new persecutions is now coming in from every continent. for the second year in a row, christians are the most persecuted group in the world. it is a tragic fact that over 100,000 people lost their lives because of their fervent faith in christ in just one year in 2016. there are countries not so far from the safety of our european homes where being a christian is the most dangerous thing in the world. one such place is pakistan. pakistan is an islamic state according to the constitution, which considers islam as a way of life and the penal law provides for the death of those accused and convicted of blasphemy, which becomes a weapon for the new ones to point their fingers at christians. accusations, like blasphemy convictions, are often arbitrary and malicious, with tragic consequences. christians all over the world, especially in pakistan, especially in the middle east, will be completely exterminated unless we join forces to defend them.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i am very pleased that this item is on the agenda of our parliament today because i want to make it absolutely clear that it is very good that we are marking the international day of the family, because the family is certainly one of the foundations of society. but on the other hand, i want to make it clear that i am not allowing a monopoly on the family to someone who comes only from the right of the political spectrum, the family belongs to all of us. i'm also speaking as the proud father of three successful children, who already have children of their own, so i have grandchildren, and i'm very happy and excited about that. i am convinced, on the other hand, as a man who is not exclusive, that whatever our wider community, public institutions for child rearing and education, can do, there is also no alternative. what parents can do, there's no alternative. but what public institutions can do with the knowledge and experience of the people who work in public institutions, we must not underestimate. what i also want to emphasize is that of course we don't always have happy marriages everywhere, we have a number of problems, so we have to talk about that too. we also need to talk about the fact that same-sex marriage exists, and that's a topic that we can't dismiss, and we can't dismiss children who are raised in such marriages. i support this debate, i think it is welcome, but i also expect the commission to also steer this debate in a balanced and acceptable way for all of us in this parliament.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission shares broadly the problem analysed and presented by the honourable member. one of the main objectives of the european union is to protect vulnerable groups, including minors, consumers and citizens in general through harmonisation of laws. the commission is fully committed both to safeguarding freedom of expression and protecting vulnerable viewers – children in particular – from harmful content, and all citizens against hate speech. article 14 of the e-commerce directive needs to be interpreted on a case—by—case basis. while the e-commerce directive prohibits member states from imposing a general monitoring obligation on providers, it requires providers to act upon obtaining actual knowledge of illegal activity in order to avoid liability. the commission believes that progress can be made without reopening the e-commerce directive, which has been a major contributor to innovation and societal benefits. the european union has proposed targeted measures to ensure that platforms take action against specific problems, such as illegal hate speech and terrorist propaganda. the commission has also initiated and strongly supported co-regulatory efforts. the commission communication on the mid-term review of the digital single market of 10 may 2017 announced a better coordination of dialogues with platforms, focusing on the mechanisms and technical solutions for the removal of illegal content. this communication also announced the commission’s guidelines on two topics: first, coherent procedural aspects such as the notification and removal of illegal content; second, on liability rules and support to platforms on voluntary measures taken by the platform when they work proactively to remove illegal content, acting in good faith. the commission is currently reflecting on the most appropriate form for such guidance. the issue of protection of minors and hate speech on video-sharing platforms is addressed by the proposals of a review of the audiovisual media service directive adopted on 25 may 2016, which is currently under discussion by the council and parliament. the commission proposal foresees a limited extension of its scope to video-sharing platforms, for example youtube. the proposed system seeks to keep the balance between the fundamental right of freedom of expression and important public interest objectives, such as the protection of minors against harmful content and the protection of all citizens against hate speech. according to the proposals, only those rules that are necessary to protect the viewers from the most harmful content will apply to video-sharing platforms. member states should ensure that video-sharing platforms put in place measures to 1) protect minors from harmful content, access to which would have to be restricted, and 2) protect all citizens from incitement to hate. the measures consist, where appropriate, in establishing and operating flagging and reporting mechanisms, age verification systems, systems to read the content by the uploaders or users, or parental control systems. it is important to stress that none of the measures included in the proposal entail a general obligation to monitor or ex—ante control; it is fully in line with the e-commerce directive. member states are encouraged to implement the new rules via co-regulation. the involvement of the industry will ensure that measures are future-proofed and that platform is built on what they are already doing on a voluntary basis. some platforms are indeed already making great efforts to protect minors online and citizens from hate speech. through the implementation via co-regulation, we are aiming to a building on the work already done. however, there are services that do not have such measures in place. now all video-sharing platforms will be obliged to take measures. the audiovisual media service directive would provide regulators with a regulatory backstop in case there is no action from platforms. in addition, video-sharing platforms today apply their own standards when it comes to assessing what is harmful for minors or what constitutes hate speech. the commission proposal aims that they have to comply with the audiovisual directive standards in this field. the commission believes that the proposed rules will ensure a better protection of viewers in online services. the commission is also looking forward to the upcoming trialogues, and hopes to secure the adoption of the revised audiovisual media service directive as soon as possible, as this is a priority file and identified by the institutions.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague malteze for raising this important issue. under the current rules, that is, this directive in question, service providers are not obliged to monitor the content they post, and they are not liable if they have no knowledge that some content is illegal. at the same time, member states can get information on the service providers, so identify who it is, but this indirectly means their obligation to monitor the content, which actually says that there is a high responsibility of the member states and probably the impossibility of monitoring this whole process, and a minimal responsibility of the service provider. this is certainly not a good situation and i therefore welcome the commission's willingness to work to protect all citizens, and in particular the most vulnerable, namely children and the elderly, when amending this and other similar directives.
mr president, the adoption of coherent and simple european standardisation policies with a view to achieving the right balance between the national, european and global dimensions is important, above all, in the context of the final establishment of the digital single market. european conservatives and reformists believe that such standardisation must be a bottom-up process, driven by specifically identified needs put before the legislator by industry representatives, rather than overly ambitious politicians who have little to do with manufacturing. our group opposes the increasing politicization of the standardization process and wants industry to be the one to lead the processes that concern it primarily. but i must point out that this report has achieved a balance, and that is an approach which we welcome.
mr president, i personally support this report because i believe it is very important to have quality standards and norms primarily to make our economy more competitive and global. our consumers will be better protected by being sure they are buying products of equal quality. and also what i would like to point out is that several important projects that the european union is currently drawing up for the future after 2020, and that is the energy union, require quality standards and norms, because communication between market participants in the electricity market, communication between citizens to the distribution network, communication between system operators will not be satisfactory if these standards are not interoperable and open, just as my colleague mizzi has stressed in her report. and i'd like to look at the report of my colleague parker who's sadly gone. the uk, which she said led the way in standards, still has a different tension than the rest of the european union, uses imperial units instead of the international system. so we have to convert miles into meters and we also have to carry adapters if we want to connect our computer to the network.
madam president, europe has one of the highest standards of health care in the world, and treatment is generally available to all citizens regardless of their financial status or any other economic or demographic characteristics. nevertheless, in recent years europe has become increasingly aware of the importance of prevention. the increase in the number of people with aids, tuberculosis, and hepatitis c that we have seen in recent years is a sign that we need to do more to raise awareness among citizens and strengthen public health policies. our efforts should not be confined to the member states alone, but we must also cooperate as much as possible in this area with neighbouring countries and with those third countries from which the largest number of people migrate to europe.
madam president, many of us have experienced that our device "crkne" immediately after the expiration of the warranty. it can't be a coincidence and it has to be banned. as many as 92 percent of french citizens believe that the products they buy are programmed to expire. in addition, for example, when the washing machine bearing cracks, you have to replace the entire drum because there are no smaller spare parts. sometimes the spare parts are so expensive that they don't even pay to fix them. in germany alone, the number of repair shops fell by 13 percent in one year. it is necessary to ensure the availability and reasonable cost of spare parts in the event of minor equipment failures. it has been demonstrated that the introduction of a minimum durability marking would lead to an increase in sales of the labelled products by 55%. consumers are willing to pay more for product durability. i think this is a problem that needs to be addressed at both the national and european level. studies have shown that reuse or repair is even better than recycling, because it creates over 10,000 new jobs and has a better impact on the environment.
written. the fundamental values on which the european union is founded are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. adherence to these fundamental values lies at the heart of the great peace project we now call the european union. the european union must actively and consistently promote its values not only towards its member states but also in the world. i support the motion for measures to protect human rights and prevent the most serious crimes. the union must demonstrate stronger support for human rights as enshrined in international law in its external action towards third countries. the problem of impunity for perpetrators of serious crimes, including those who commit crimes on behalf of non-state actors, can only be overcome by the comprehensive jurisdiction of the international criminal court. i deplore the widespread disregard for international humanitarian law and the alarming rates of civilian deaths and attacks on civilian infrastructure in armed conflicts around the world. the eu must work closely with all relevant united nations bodies with relevant information to make the prevention of mass crime as effective and timely as possible. i welcome the use of european instruments to promote the principle of complementarity in order to also provide for the prosecution of the most serious crimes in international criminal law in national legislation.
mr. president, being employed is better than being unemployed. let's get on with it. part-time or temporary jobs are better than long-term unemployment. this does not mean, of course, that such jobs should be pursued, but neither should they be avoided forever because, as this report repeatedly points out, they are "unsafe". the politics here then try to present themselves as protectors of the people and guarantee that they will make these jobs safe. the only job that's safe in the long run is the one that's commercially viable. any business that is not commercially viable, and that survives with the help of politics, does so at the expense of another that then also becomes unsustainable. the more policy saves, the more unsustainable it is, which then in times of recession completely sinks and causes a chain reaction. if we are to understand each other, we must strive to make working conditions as good as possible for all europeans. but i fear that we will not achieve this by additional regulation, but solely by encouraging competition and removing barriers from the single market.
mr president, tourism and fishing for the citizens living in the croatian adriatic, in those areas, especially on the islands, where traditionally fish is caught, is something we are discussing here today, and we can say that the proposal in this report is in a way a win-win combination. a synergy between what is created today by tourism, as a relatively new economic branch, and fishing as a traditional economic branch in croatia. i would like to stress the fact that this way many of the problems facing the fisheries sector can be solved, many families can be involved in what is known as tourist fishing and can create new income and new opportunities for themselves. of course, this cannot bypass fishing altogether, but it can certainly do something for the benefit of those people who are less and less able to fish. finally, i would like to ask you not to forget about river fisheries and the harmonization of european union regulations.
mr. president, the arbitration between croatia and slovenia, tainted by a great scandal, has come to an end. after the slovenian member of the arbitration court sekolec and the slovenian representative drenik were caught exchanging confidential information, croatia which entered the arbitration in good faith left it by unanimous decision of the chamber. the process that was supposed to resolve the dispute thus introduced even more friction into the relations between the two countries and further poisoned the story of the demarcation. what's the matter? neighbors and partners need to sit down and renegotiate a new settlement. i hereby appeal to the commission and the other member states to take into account the fact that one member state has rightly withdrawn from the arbitration and does not recognise the decision of the court which, by withdrawing from the proceedings, has lost all legitimacy in this case. pressuring croatia to recognize such arbitration would mean directly siding with one member against the other and subtly condoning the lack of transparency and corruption in international institutions. it would be a big step in the wrong direction for the european union!
mr. president, the arbitration court's decision on the border line between croatia and slovenia is not binding on croatia because croatia has left this arbitration process, which of course as we know was thoroughly contaminated by the slovenian side. however, i also assume that the decision that this arbitral tribunal has made can be a good starting point for seeking a final solution between two partners, between two friendly countries. so i think that the bilateral talks that are expected and i call on the prime ministers to really find a final solution as soon as possible so that the people who live along the border, along with me because i live along the border, really feel calm and peaceful because today they are very worried about everything that is happening and things, i hope, will not get out of control. i therefore welcome the responsible reactions of the leaders of slovenia and croatia and welcome their intention to find a final solution quickly. i think it's the only way and in that context i believe it will have the support of all of us because peace and stability in the region is first and foremost what the citizens are interested in.
mr president, commissioner, the commission has developed a connectivity plan for the western balkans, and an important component of that connectivity is energy connectivity with the aim of market integration in order to reduce electricity supply requirements and obtain cheaper electricity. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the western balkan countries are planning to build eight coal-fired power plants that do not meet the european union's high standards, primarily in terms of environmental protection and air quality. i therefore call on the commission to help these countries, within the framework of the connectivity and energy community plan, to adopt the highest environmental standards in the construction of thermal power stations.
mr president, i am pointing out tonight the unjustified request for a two-month delay in the application of a delegated act allowing croatian terroir wine producers to enter the european market. teran wine is produced in slovenia from the refošk variety and in croatia from the teran variety. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market. on 19 may, the european commission regulated this issue by means of a delegated act by adding the name teran to the name of the country and the addition of croatian istra. however, a request for a delay in its application was lodged a few days before the act entered into force. that's what the agriculture committee is voting on next week. i appeal to dismiss the unfounded request to delay the application of the delegated act on terrain. croatian winemakers have waited four years too long. product names in many cases cross national borders, which is the best evidence of the common history of products and the need for cooperation. i expect all manufacturers of off-road vehicles to be able to market products whose quality and geographical origin, as well as the legal arguments for protection, are absolutely unquestionable.
madam president, i thank mr juncker for opening up the subject of the small and the big and, unfortunately, i have to drop my opening speech because i too come from a small country, croatia, and i really don't want to feel small. and so, mr. muscat, i congratulate you on what you've done. and do you know why i have a speaking time here this morning? because i wanted to have a speaking team tomorrow about the estonian presidency, but they told me there's going to be a big delegation speaking team. so, there's a big and small here. i ask all the colleagues here to get rid of this "big and small" and try to be important. so, for me, my little croatia is the biggest in the world. as for your presidency, it is not fair to expect you to solve migration policy or asylum policy because it simply was not realistic or possible when we have been fighting to solve it for so many years. but that is why you have resolved to preserve the fish stocks in the mediterranean and in my adriatic, and that is why i am very proud of the directive you have adopted. and for everything else, there will be time, and i hope that the other presidencies will also have time, and in 2020, when croatia will preside, that we will solve both big problems and big nations.
madam president, one of the main tasks of the commission in the coming period should be to create the conditions for maximising the benefits of the single market for all member states. that is why french president macron's announcement of a 'europe that protects' does not help at all. and it is a step in the wrong direction and could cost us billions of euros in foreign investment and bring new unnecessary regulation to the single market that will make it harder for economic operators from smaller and less developed member states to do business. macron is said to have blamed the european union for his victory over populism. but that does not give him the right to be an economic populist himself and to contaminate the european single market with the protectionism that is a legacy of some past times.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done and the commission and the commissioner on the excellent draft budget for 2018. europe is forecast to grow by between 1.5% and 2% in the medium term. we cannot be satisfied with this economic growth, and we can only change it with an ambitious budget and quality investment in innovation, science, research and development, education, youth. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. it also invests in priorities that are important for a favourable business environment, such as energy and transport, but also security and stability. without security and stability there is no trust, without trust there is no investment in growth and development and this is the clear message of this 2018 budget proposal. i am particularly pleased to see the increase in cohesion policy payments of as much as 25%. this is the right moment for this policy to really become visible because it almost wasn't until now.
madam president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs costi and mr brok for the creation of this document, but also mrs mogherini for having accepted and wanting to apply culture as part of the union's external policy and i hope that culture will become a diplomatic instrument through which we can talk to those who share the same cultural space. i also support the idea that we should include culture as an instrument in all our agreements with third countries, as a tool in our relations with third countries. so the cultural space that we share with similar or equal values we really need to know how to promote in some way more. i am pleased that there is talk of protecting cultural heritage, that we will prevent, i hope, the illegal trade in cultural goods, and i take this instrument as a call to europe and the whole world to protect cultural heritage, and i want to express my joy that 2018 will be the year of cultural heritage.
i would like to thank my colleagues elmar broka and silvia kosti for an extremely high-quality report. supporting culture as a driver of sustainable social and economic development and promoting culture and intercultural dialogue for peaceful relations between communities and cooperation in the field of cultural heritage are prerequisites for building a sustainable and tolerant society. i therefore particularly welcome the parts calling for close cooperation between unesco and the european union in the protection and promotion of tangible and intangible heritage and the part calling for the promotion of cultural rights as equivalent fundamental human rights and for culture, because of its intrinsic value, to be considered as the fourth independent pillar of sustainable development, alongside the social, economic and environmental dimensions. what i see as a key element of culture in the context of international relations, as a powerful tool for cultural diplomacy of the european union's external policy, is the promotion of the fundamental european values which include respect for the right to cultural diversity and unity in that diversity.
mr. president, 20 countries, 20 different political systems, 20 different levels of development, four-fifths of the world's gross domestic product, three-quarters of the world's trade, two-thirds of the world's population. who better than these g20s to solve the problems we face? we've always dealt with financial and economic crises and these issues, but this time the title is: "shaping a connected world". how to connect the world, how to make the best use of globalization, how to make the best use of globalization? against protectionism, against isolationism, against narrow national policies, and for connecting the world and for taking advantage of globalisation. i will not forget the issue of women and women's equality, which is one of the themes of the g20. i'm glad you put that on the agenda, but i'm sure it will open up a lot of other topics that are opening up in the world these days, like north korea. i hope the g20 will answer these questions and that putin and trump will finally meet and come together.
madam president, member states contribute to the budget of the european union and the lawful, targeted and efficient use of these funds is in the interest of all states and their citizens. the eu budget should be used to tackle fraud and crime, and to ensure that the eu budget is properly managed. money from the eu budget is used in all member states and all must be treated with equal care and with the aim of achieving the greatest possible value for their citizens and the european union as a whole. there are many examples of fraud involving eu funds, and i am therefore pleased that today's vote brings us one step closer to adopting a directive on the fight against fraud against the union's financial interests by criminal law, which means harmonising criminal law in europe in all cases of fraud involving the european budget.
madam president, the resolution on the preparation of the commission's work programme for 2018 was rejected by a large majority of meps. i abstained because of course there are a lot of important messages and parts in the resolution. however, the amendments which were made during the vote have altered the content and focus of the key activities and therefore we could not of course fully support this resolution. what is important, we all need to know that we have key challenges ahead of us in 2018 and that of course in the next vote we must take this into account, that the implementation of the program must be strengthened, the implementation of the program accelerated because our citizens expect visible results at least in 2018 for this perspective. and crisis management has become our daily routine. we need to work together to design and implement the best solutions for both counter-terrorism and migration management.
madam president, today we voted a resolution on an ambitious industrial strategy and this is extremely important for the whole of europe and for each member state because without a strong industry we cannot have a very leading economy and we want to be world leaders. industry, for the last 20 years, unfortunately, has been in decline all the time and its share of gdp has fallen from 19 percent to 15 percent, and our goal in this strategy is to be at 20 percent by 2020. how are we gonna do that? we need to make a significant change in our attitudes and ways of working, we need to reduce our dependence on raw materials from third countries, we need to increase energy efficiency. and also to change the education system to match the needs of industry, to connect industry to science, to encourage innovation and, of course, to reduce regulatory burdens. we have a lot of work to do, and this resolution makes that clear.
mr president, commissioner, the prolonged state of emergency in turkey has negatively affected fundamental human rights and freedoms, the rights of religious and ethnic minorities, freedom of religion, freedom of association and peaceful protest, and the recent referendum on constitutional amendment and ultimately its eventual implementation in the form proposed may jeopardise the separation of powers and the principle of checks and balances. all of the above are key elements not only for the successful continuation of the negotiations for membership of the european union but also for a genuine partnership with the european union, based on sound foundations and mutual trust. however, this debate, and the adoption of the resolution tomorrow, is not aimed at breaking off ties and cooperation with turkey, but is aimed at supporting the efforts to find solutions and models for turkey's transformation into a democratic, inclusive and tolerant society and to continue high-level dialogue and cooperation with the european union in key areas of common interest, namely counter-terrorism, migration and security.
mr president, commissioner vella, i take this opportunity to highlight three facts on which the european union must work more and be more ambitious. the first is like a lightweight brochure published by an association, to bring the united nations sustainable development goals to all european union citizens so that they can recognize our policies. second, the fight against food waste. we are being completely unambitious here, considering that 50 million citizens of the european union have to worry about how to feed themselves every day, not to mention the rest of the world. and when we move to a more ambitious policy, then we need to show that in legislation, which unfortunately is missing even in the circular economy package that we are negotiating with the commission at the moment. and third, in our oceans, in our seas, too much waste ends up. again, when it comes to concrete targets, what is lacking is an active and ambitious policy from both the european commission and the member states.
mr president, the european parliament's structure in three different locations, in brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg, is expensive, inefficient, harmful to the environment and a great relic of a bygone era. we have finally had an official debate on this problem and i can only welcome that. over the years, a whole network of political and economic actors has been created around each of the parliament's seats, benefiting from this type of structure, so that a completely logical rationalisation in the form of relocating the entire infrastructure to one place was practically impossible to achieve. i believe that we will succeed in the end, despite the enormous resistance. strasbourg as a place of reconciliation has great symbolic value, but i think it is time that parliament stopped paying the price of symbolism. moving to one place will save us hundreds of millions of euros and thousands of man-hours spent on trips to strasbourg and will make us much more productive in our work. i think we owe it all to the taxpayers.
mr president, the outermost regions, because of their geographical position, face challenges that do not afflict much of continental europe. although these are territories that are part of the european union, their isolation and geographical distance from the political centre of the union, brussels, affects their consumption of european laws and policies. this must change and the outermost regions must become an equal part of the union in every respect. although their problems are specific, they are unfortunately not alone in their traffic isolation and poor use of cohesion policy instruments. i'll give the example of the croatian islands because i live on one of them myself. the demographic and economic decline of the islands on the croatian side of the adriatic also requires an urgent response. through simplified procedures for the use of european funds and new policies for island development, we can reverse this process and help islands, as well as the outermost regions, to significantly contribute to economic development and the preservation of local communities.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to remind you that the report calls for a new chapter to be opened in relations between the eu and the outermost regions. the commission is willing to build on the specific partnership the eu has with these regions, and to engage further with them to support their development, as president juncker also stressed at the forum of the outermost regions, which we hosted in brussels at the end of march this year. the report also recognises the important contribution of eu policies and funds, and calls for better integration of the outermost regions in eu horizontal programmes. for instance, the report rightly mentions the need fully to exploit the research potential in these regions and to do so by improving their participation in horizon 2020 with regard to the trans—european networks in the field of transport. for instance, the report calls on the commission to ensure the effective integration of these regions. the commission will explore how to include these regions better in the trans-european transport network, as connectivity remains an important challenge to address. the report also highlights the importance of specific regimes, such as specific taxation schemes. the commission is aware of the role these schemes play in terms of supporting the outermost regions in developing their economies. however, their evaluation and possible adaptation over time are needed. the report also acknowledges the importance of agriculture – as you have already said – and specific support for the outermost regions to address their particular agricultural challenges. without prejudice to the negotiation on the future eu multiannual financial framework (mff), the commission is committed to maintaining the specific aid provided by the programme of options specifically relating to remoteness and insularity (posei). regarding your concerns about the situation of the fishing fleet, we agree on the need for safer and more efficient vessels. however, the total fishing capacity should be commensurate with the sustainable exploitation of fisheries stocks. in order to achieve that, we need data on the state of the stocks, which we currently lack. to fill this information gap, we will need the active involvement of both the member states and their outermost regions so as to understand the situation of these stocks better and to recognise if management measures are needed. as for aid towards the construction of new vessels, something currently not eligible for public funding in the eu, the commission understands the concerns of the regions and is examining ways, within its competences, to address them while remaining consistent with its internal and international commitments. the commission will also look at the proposal for a dedicated support system for sustainable fisheries in these regions in the context of preparation for the post—2020 mff, following close consultation with stakeholders and on the basis of an appropriate impact assessment. with regard to international trade agreements, the commission will continue to pay attention to outermost regions’ concerns, not only in the negotiation phase but also in the implementation and review phases of the agreements, in particular the relevant economic partnership agreements. we cannot react here to all the important points that this report raises. however, i would like to assure you that the commission will pay great attention to the full report as an important contribution to preparing the renewed strategy vis-à-vis these regions. in conclusion, let me again thank mr omarjee for this report and let me also take this opportunity to welcome the excellent cooperation demonstrated by the conference of members of the european parliament from the outermost regions in the effort to boost the eu strategy towards these regions.
written. there is no doubt that cohesion policy is of particular importance for the outermost regions and therefore requires a differentiated and harmonised approach that will take account of their uniqueness in the implementation of european policies. the economic and social situation of the outermost regions requires coordinated and effective strategies to enable them to approach the average european level of development. as regards agricultural policy, product differentiation can further stimulate and encourage local production, processing and marketing of food products and thus contribute to reducing the differences between the outermost regions and the rest of the eu. in addition, under the programme for opportunities for remote and island areas posei, it is essential to give flexibility to member states in defining the programme. however, it is crucial that the strategies take into account the specific needs of the member states on the one hand and respect the overall objectives of the union on the other. in this context, i believe that cohesion policy needs to be strengthened in order to strengthen the economic, social and sustainable development of the outermost regions.
mr. president, i would like to stress that i fear that this scandal with the import of meat from brazil is in some ways just the tip of the iceberg. we have to put our hands on our hearts and say to ourselves, we've had a serious problem in recent years with all kinds of contaminated meat. in croatia, there have been a number of cases where, in addition to brazilian meat, there have been other types of meat that have been infected with salmonella, and unfortunately, in other ways, and that meat has been produced in the european union. we have to put our hands on our hearts and tell ourselves that we have our problems within the european union, because if we don't do it ourselves, who else is going to take care of our citizens, take care of our consumers, take care of our health? so, commissioner, with the great confidence we have in you and in the work of the commission, we really insist that you do everything to protect our consumers and our citizens.
member of the commission. – mr president, president juncker’s priority in the area of security and defence is to strengthen european defence cooperation. a recent proposal by the commission, as well as steps agreed by the council in may and the european council in june, demonstrates that the eu as a whole is determined to take defence cooperation to a higher level: to invest more, collaborate more and put more emphasis on the actual output of the effort. the reflection paper on the future of european defence, adopted on 7 june by the commission, offers forward-looking defence scenarios as a contribution to the ongoing debate, identifying the main options for the direction of travel. such future perspectives should not let us get distracted from the concrete work which we have been undertaking over the past year. the global strategy and the new level of ambition derived from it provide us with a strategic vision and purpose, which are now translating into concrete action. deeper defence cooperation, in both operational and capability terms, is the only way europeans can deliver the strong and state-of-the-art military capacity that we need to address external conflicts and crises, and thus protect the european union and its citizens. also, in the long run, let there be no mistake: military capabilities are, and will remain, owned and operated by the member states, which can choose to make them available within various frameworks, as has been mentioned, including the eu, nato and the united nations. we are mobilising european union instruments to support member states, not to set up common assets – what has been called an ‘eu army’. not at all. absolutely not. moreover, we recognise that nato remains the cornerstone of our atlantic security, providing for the collective and territorial defence of its members. indeed, the eu is committed to strengthening its cooperation with nato on the basis of the joint declaration of 8 july 2016 by presidents tusk and juncker and the secretary-general of nato, and its implementation. however, the eu has been contributing to addressing external challenges through the common security and defence policy crisis-management missions and operations for many years. that is also nothing new – and the public requires, and our security demands, that we do more as europeans to help stabilise volatile regions and build local capacities. this external action has a direct impact on our internal security. nevertheless, such missions and operations can only take place outside the union, and that continues to be the case. irrespective of the particular circumstances of a conflict or crisis, the union’s action is always guided by respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law, which are essential elements of our union. the eu response to external conflicts, crises and instability will always combine a number of instruments, ranging from diplomacy, development and other forms of assistance to civilian or military crisis management. the complex challenges we face today cannot be tackled by one instrument alone, be it military or other. the eu has a unique mix of tools and instruments. the nature of the threats we face requires us to use the broad toolbox at our disposal with greater flexibility, tearing down walls between external and internal, civilian and military, state and non-state instruments.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i cannot help feeling, ms storch, that this is a highly political issue. as i expected, from you, you've confused everything in the introduction. you've mixed up the united states, you've mixed up russia, and finally, imagine that a european army could operate in hungary and poland. so really the ultimate, ultimate politicianism. but still, i'll say this, here's syria, as a good example. the us and russia are at war in syria. who's suffering the consequences? the european union. the migrants coming from these areas are exactly what mrs storch's party wants to use to break up the european union. so, politics par excellence, you know.
mr. president, the whole process of ratifying the istanbul convention is taking too long. it's been a year and a half, and we're still arguing. it's defeating. in the eu, seven women die from violence every day. i am particularly concerned about the research that shows that among school-age children, violence has become acceptable. it has become normal to attack a girl verbally or physically if she does not conform to the expectations of her environment. women face discrimination and violence on a daily basis, and it is especially difficult if they are disabled or if they belong to the lgbti group. i am shocked that some, even in a document like this, whose importance should be understood, are looking for a way to suppress gender equality or, even worse, argue that ratification of the istanbul convention threatens women's rights. i support this report because it calls for the full ratification of the convention, but above all for urgent ratification.
mr president, i condemn violence against women in the strongest terms, consider it totally unacceptable and call for the instruments to combat violence against women to be applied more consistently. the istanbul convention is in many respects in serious breach of the principle of subsidiarity by failing to provide an effective and innovative instrument to combat violence. it is the first international treaty of the council of europe in which the member states did not participate. half the member states of the european union have not ratified the convention and we should ask ourselves why this is so. the definition of gender as stated in this convention assumes that a person is not born male or female, but that his gender is a matter of his personal choice. this is contrary to the rome statute of the international criminal court which says that gender refers to the two genders male and female which is the only international legally binding definition to date. violence against women can be tackled through proper family education, school education and concrete action in the member states, not by introducing new ideologies.
mr. president, the family is the foundation of society. sadly, in some cases, the family home from the sanctuary has been turned into a prison. victims of domestic violence, regardless of gender or age, must be guaranteed help and safety. as a police officer, i have intervened in domestic violence and i advocate zero tolerance. the same goes for violence against women. a woman must have the right to choose when and with whom to have sex and how to protect herself. as long as she's only making decisions about her body and not the lives of others, a woman should have full control over her decisions. everything else in the report - from advocating abortion, promoting gender ideology to imposing political correctness - is not about preventing and sanctioning violence, but about spreading a liberal agenda and silencing those who disagree. an ideology whose main goal is the destruction of traditional christian society cannot have my support, and i hope neither the support of the government of the republic of croatia.
mr president, i congratulate mr linz on his report, and i thank him for his efforts in producing it and for his excellent cooperation. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. the forestry sector is the main source of income for the croatian economy. eurostat data show that the member states that joined the european union in 2004 and since have raised the level of forest management. the commission notes that the average annual growth rate of the forestry sector in the eu was around 3% in the period from 2000 to 2010. namely, croatia from 1991 to 1998 due to the occupation of part of the territory, due to the homeland war that followed, and afterwards the process of peaceful reintegration, could not manage its forests. the consequences of the great serbian aggression are still felt today by the remaining mine assets. croatia has so far invested over 680 million euros to clear mine-suspicious areas. that demining work was indeed intensive, but there's still 425 square kilometers left, and it won't be done until mid-2019. over 90% of these remaining mined areas are actually forests and i thank my colleague linz for having taken all this into account and made an exception for croatia.
mr. president, back in 1967, the united nations sponsored the international outer space treaty, which stated that it was becoming the domain of all mankind. in the meantime, a lot has changed, technologies have advanced a lot and, of course, everything that is said in the report has my full support, especially programs like galileo, copernicus and of course i am also advocating that we provide new means, because everything that space provides, all the resources that it has, just to mention satellite tracking, definitely help our life on our planet. however, i would go a step further. and i want to warn you that the federal aviation administration of the united states has announced that it will encourage the private sector to pursue commercial activities in the form of gaining exclusive rights to sections of the lunar territory. china also has ambitions, in a way, to go to the moon. so in 2015, i asked the commission a question that i did not get a satisfactory answer to: what will you do to protect the interests of the european union on the moon?
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate rapporteur areny on this excellent report because, let us be honest, only the european union has the moral strength to establish a single value chain on our planet. no one other than the european union. and that, i think, is a very important message that we need to send out in this debate and in the vote tomorrow. i want to highlight three key moments as i see them, and that's really the exploitation in many countries of workers, cheap labor, over-cheap labor, i want to highlight the problem of tax evasion, tax havens and everything else that we know about taxes, the problem of environmental protection and the overall destruction of the environment in some countries. and in the end, most of it is paid for by us, because the european union is the biggest donor and the biggest aid provider to various developing countries, other countries with which we have trade agreements. in that context, i think this is a very comprehensive report, and i would like to thank my colleague, mrs aréna, once again for it.
madam president, today technology enables us to do almost everything, especially when we talk about digital technologies, the creation of digital platforms, which is very well recognized in this report by mr. beast, who goes on to point out everything that is important for lifelong learning and distance learning. i especially have to support the fact that we recognize people with personal needs. what i would like to highlight in another way is the need to link european universities. we have very interesting, good networking programs, but i think they're still not enough. i'll highlight a good example of the networking of universities in the adriatic known as adrion, where universities cooperate with each other, exchange programs, professors and students, but i think that it is by creating concrete digital platforms between different universities, by collaborating universities, that we can achieve even higher quality together.
madam president, i welcome the report by mr zvera and i believe that it contains all the key facts which should encourage both the commission and the member states to successfully implement the new modernised education system, the lifelong learning system and distance education. the european union's global competitiveness will not only be measured by how successfully our industry is digitised, our transport is digitised, our energy is digitised, but how successfully our education system is digitised. not only should it be at the university level, it should be at the professional level, it should help to make education present in our remote mountain regions, islands, where people often don't have the opportunity to travel to the mainland and participate in their lifelong education which is very important for their re-skilling and finding a position in the labor market.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unesco's world heritage sites are in many places under threat. only in the area where i live, where i live, where i move in croatia, in plitvice, in dubrovnik, in venice, in ohrid, in kotor, in some other parts, the unesco heritage is threatened and that is because of nothing else but us, because of tourism. tourism is very important to us, it is the sector in which one in ten european union citizens is employed, it is the sector that generates a lot of revenue, but it is also the sector that we almost never talk about here in the european parliament. as if it doesn't exist, as if it doesn't bring revenue to europe and as if it doesn't threaten unesco heritage in this case. so once again, i want to make it clear that we need an umbrella tourism organisation within the european union, so that we can really deal with tourism in a quality way, also when we talk about cultural heritage.
madam president, tonight i would like to talk about wildfires and the need for protection from wildfires. the worst fire season is behind us. there were 4,907 fires in croatia this year. but they didn't just take over croatia. they took over spain, portugal, italy, greece. in any case, i have put seven questions to the european commission during this mandate to show that we need to protect europe's forests better from fires. climate change and global warming are also not to be ignored. while we're fighting fires here in europe, we have the biggest hurricanes and tornadoes in central america, which in a way indicates changes in the global climate. what i want to say with this presentation today is that the solidarity fund that exists, unfortunately, can be very slow to mobilize. what we are asking the commission to do is to enable the solidarity fund to be mobilised more quickly, which is precisely the fund that is being used to help with these natural disasters. i, in that sense, ask you to react.
madam president, promoting internet connectivity in islands and rural areas in general is of particular importance for countries like croatia. local communities in these areas are rapidly losing their population, especially their young, which of course seriously threatens their survival. today, with many new jobs dependent on the internet, strengthening internet connectivity in rural areas can certainly help retain residents. digital signage of the elderly population can also have positive effects and make life easier for people far from administrative centres. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee to the beneficiary of the aid. but i would like this initiative to go beyond just wifi hotspots, because in the context of the real infrastructure situation in rural areas, it looks like a cosmetic solution. we need capital investment in internet infrastructure, and publicly available hotspots can be a welcome addition.
madam president, i consider this a very important topic and i fully support the commission's initiative to release funds to enable these remote internet access points. i think that's a good move to show that the european union is getting closer to the local level, getting closer to its citizens, and i think that the results of the referendum in the uk show that it was these areas that were not really in favour of britain staying in the european union. the role is of course very important to establish the initiatives that the european commission has launched, which are the smart island and the smart village. so how do we bring the internet, how do we bring new technologies to remote communities? it is also a very good message for member states that with certain investments, which can be and, of course, are affordable, it can be possible for citizens to participate actively in local government.
madam president, i congratulate mr zorrinha on this report and i am also extremely pleased that it is precisely this sector that is being handled by our former colleague, mrs mariya gabriel, who understands the needs of rural areas and knows that over 41% of people living in rural areas have never used the internet. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's rural development policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's rural development policy. to keep people living in the countryside we need to provide them with adequate social, social and communal infrastructure, and the exchange of communication and information is important because it allows for faster access to public services, faster job creation, competitiveness of rural sectors such as agriculture and forestry, which is extremely important. as someone who lives in a rural area myself, i can testify to how difficult it is to work and function if you have a bad internet connection and your system is down. not all member states have the same opportunities and starting points, and i therefore commend and support this initiative.
member of the commission. – madam president, i warmly welcome the ambitious and well-balanced agreement reached between the european parliament, the council and the commission at the last trilogue in april on the review of the regulation on security of gas supply. it is a major political success on which we have worked hard together in record time. this is also thanks to you, mr buzek, and i congratulate you on your excellent work and thank you and all shadow-rapporteurs for your commitment in this file. the review of the regulation on security of gas supply is an important milestone in rolling out the energy union strategy. this agreement now completes the energy security package proposed by the commission just last year, in february 2016. one of the energy union objectives is to ensure secure, sustainable, competitive and affordable energy supplies for european consumers – for households and for businesses. europe’s energy market is changing rapidly and significantly. while the current regulation on security of gas supply of 2010 has already significantly improved member states’ preparedness for a gas disruption, it was clear from the stress tests conducted in 2014 that the instruments available under that regulation needed substantial improvements. the new regulation that is subject to a vote today brings a step change, enhancing and making operational the necessary instruments to prepare for and mitigate potential gas disruption: regional cooperation becomes real and operational; better transparency on gas supply contracts will help improve the risk assessment; the spirit of solidarity is for the first time translated into concrete action and cooperation between member states so that no household in any member state remains in the cold during a gas supply crisis. i am very happy that the most important elements of the commission proposals have been preserved or even strengthened during the negotiations. let me just highlight some of these elements, starting with regional cooperation. the current regulation includes only an optional cooperation between neighbours. in the new regulation, regional cooperation becomes mandatory and will take place in the risk groups created on the basis of the assessment of major transnational risks, drawing also on insights from european union-wide simulations done by entsog (the european network of transmission system operators for gas). the regional and national risk assessments will provide a sound basis for the national plans, with regional chapters containing meaningful cross-border measures. the spirit of solidarity is a cornerstone of the new regulation, ensuring that all households will receive gas supplies even during a crisis. with the new processes laid down in the regulation, for the first time, solidarity is not only a political declaration but an obligation and a concrete way to help. finally, transparency. information exchange and the transparency of gas supply contracts is also significantly strengthened and will allow for a more complete and in-depth assessment of risk to security of supply. first, the companies will provide contractual information to their national authorities. if the national authority has doubts about possible risks for security of supply related with the contract, it will notify the contract to the commission. the notification threshold of 28% for all gas supply contracts – existing and new – is well balanced. it is important to note that at any time the commission retains the power to ask for any contracts if it is concerned that a given contract is relevant for the assessment of the security of supply. and confidentiality will be guaranteed. the information on gas supply contracts will be sent to the commission in a non-aggregated but anonymised form. energy efficiency will be taken into account throughout the regulation, in particular when designing preventive measures. with the new regulation, cooperation on gas security of supply with the contracting parties of the energy community will become much closer and stronger. all the instruments provided through this new regulation will make the member states, and the european union as a whole, better prepared for a gas crisis and better equipped to mitigate a gas crisis should it arise. on this basis, i am confident that the vote in plenary today will give a strong backing to the important agreement that we have achieved together.
madam president, the gas supply crises that we have witnessed several times over the last 15 years or so suggest that the european union will have to change its energy policy, as well as its rules of conduct in crisis situations, if it is to achieve energy security and long-term stability. this proposal is an important step in the right direction. any type of crisis in the union causes the same pattern of behaviour in the member states, which is to shut down. in the event of a future energy crisis, it is important to ensure that cross-border gas distribution is not interrupted and this is addressed in a high-quality way by this proposal. the report strongly promotes the diversity of energy sources and renewable sources. i'd agree with that, but with the caveat that our energy goals have to be aligned with fiscal reality. we should invest most in those sources that offer the most value for money and create the least damage, and those are often not the sources that certain lobbies are pushing hard.
mr. president, first of all, i'd like to congratulate mr. buzek on his excellent work. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets. also, our esteemed commissioner cañete has been given a powerful tool, and that is to ensure that climate targets are also met in this way, because the natural gas that will be used in this way will help that transition by 2050 along our trajectories.
madam president, the report rightly emphasizes that states have a legitimate right to acquire military technology for defense purposes. but we can't ignore the fact that there's a lot of things that are not transparent about arms exports, there's no standardized system of verification and reporting. the lack of transparency is damaging to companies that develop and produce defence technology in compliance with all regulations, but we cannot ignore the data that the end users of exported weapons often do not meet the criteria of common positions. the nearly 100 billion euros of arms export licences issued annually from the european union is a huge amount of money. let us not hesitate to demand a greater level of transparency about where money and weapons come from and where they end up. the international community is often slow to react politically to the outbreak of armed conflict. that's why we need clear criteria to regulate arms exports. the deterioration of security conditions globally, but the lack of a common european defence policy, fragmentation and duplication of resources are the causes of the expansion of military technology exports. these are also the best arguments for strengthening security and defence integration towards a european defence union.
mr president, the weapons that european manufacturers export to third countries often end up in the wrong hands and are used to commit serious war crimes and violations of humanitarian law. as disturbing as that is, it will be difficult to change because war is itself a great calamity that can bring out, as a rule, the worst in people. the nature of the military industry is such that it depends on conflict, and even if we manage to control sales to third countries, we still cannot stop further trafficking. guns will find their way to the right people because, in the end, it's the man who kills, not the gun. this initiative to bring the military industry of the member states under the control of the high representative for foreign affairs and security affairs will not produce results, and represents another attempt by the union to assume new powers. finally, i cannot accept this, especially because i think it would only benefit the large producers, while quality producers who follow the rules of the small member states would not stand a chance.
mr. president, fire safety is important to our entire society. statistics show that at least five thousand fires occur every day in the european union. that's two million fires a year, and 90 percent of them start in buildings. in recent decades, fires have grown faster than ever and have become more dangerous. this is largely due to the increased use of combustible materials in buildings. most european countries have not updated their fire regulations adequately to align with new building materials on the market. at eu level, fire-testing and classification standards are also not updated accordingly. we must insist on the highest level of fire protection for the citizens of the european union. anything less is not enough. we can and must make the european union fire-safe. we need to protect our citizens, but also the firefighters, whose health is also being compromised and who are also at greater risk of cancer. as a volunteer firefighter, i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the firefighters across the european union who save lives and property and who, by their example and their lives, are a testimony to the kind of people we should be.
mr president, people with disabilities are one of the most vulnerable groups in society. it is our duty to create a socio-economic environment that will include them in every sense and offer them the opportunity to achieve the maximum in life, both personally and professionally. the accessibility of different products and services to persons with disabilities throughout the european union is important, not only from the perspective of the effective functioning of the single market, but primarily for the satisfaction of their living needs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i welcome the solution that would exclude micro-enterprises from this directive altogether and apply a more lenient regime to smes. this solution is proof that a balance between market demands and social policies, on the one hand, and the real possibilities of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, on the other, is possible. they are the pillars of europe's economic prosperity, they employ the vast majority of private sector employees and therefore we must constantly keep them in mind when new regulations are being made.
written. being part of the erasmus+ programme is much more than just studying abroad. it is an experience that opens your eyes to new opportunities, friendships, knowledge and values. the programme, which started in 1987 as a voluntary cooperation between 11 european countries, has now developed into a single global network. the programme is celebrating its 30th anniversary in 2017 and over the past 30 years has undergone a radical transformation, leaving its mark on the personal and professional lives of some 9 000 000 students, trainees, volunteers, teachers, staff, educators and those working with young people. the erasmus+ programme is still only available to a very limited number of european citizens, but a further increase in the budget is expected by 2020. this unsatisfactory situation creates a sense of discontent because the programme does not meet the high expectations of eu citizens. the commission will adopt the necessary financial and budgetary reforms to achieve the ambitious objectives of this flagship eu programme of improving the conditions for everyone who decides to join it. i believe that the resolution on the future of erasmus+ helps eu citizens to find their place in our societies and to develop a sense of european identity - an identity that complements our national, regional and local identities. i see this resolution as a step forward in improving the functioning of the programme, with a view to making an even greater impact on the daily lives of eu citizens, and in particular young people.
madam president, in a modern world where old jobs for low-skilled workers are rapidly disappearing, lifelong learning is a necessity. i am pleased that the rapporteurs recognise that education and training are the responsibility of the member states, but i agree that cross-border cooperation can be very valuable to us. as i come from croatia, where there is a lot of talk about curriculum reform, and where there has been no real education reform for decades, i am convinced that at this very moment the experience of our partners can be of great help to us. the report rightly emphasizes the importance of teachers, coaches, mentors, and other educators, as they are the foundation of any reform. sadly, they are often not given the recognition and investment they deserve, and children are thus denied the opportunity to receive a quality education. if we want our children to be prepared for the future, we need to invest more in those who impart knowledge and skills to them.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, as we all know very well, myanmar went through over half a century of military rule and isolation. those of you that referred to the history, and even the present, of the country and the role of the military are perfectly right. we have to look at the events of these weeks and we also have to look at the history of the country. in the last few years the country has gone through impressive change and yet the path towards an inclusive and diverse democracy is far from accomplished. let me start by stating clearly one thing – the european union has condemned the attacks of 25 august by the arakan rohingya salvation army, as well as the violence that followed in northern rakhine state. we believe that the perpetrators must be brought to justice in line with the rule of law. let me also state, just as clearly as what i said just now, that we are very much aware of and concerned about the excesses during the security operations conducted by myanmar security forces. this has led to a massive flow of refugees into bangladesh, one of the most terrible refugee crises of our time. this situation is completely unacceptable and risks destabilising the wider region. we have two immediate priorities and i was glad to see that the un security council discussed this issue last night. un secretary-general antónio guterres expressed similar priorities to the one i will share with you in a moment. first immediate priority: end the tensions, the violence; de—escalate. violence must stop immediately. human rights must be respected by all but it is very clear: security forces face a special responsibility to refrain from any violence against unarmed civilians. secondly, and i think mr preda mentioned this, humanitarian aid should be brought to those in need urgently. here we have a european union role to play that we are playing in a quite a remarkable manner. i would like here to thank commissioner stylianides for the dedication of his work, which is also proving to be essential in this moment and in this case. there are 350 000 vulnerable people in rakhine. they need to be urgently reached by humanitarian aid and aid workers. for many of them, this is a matter of life or death. my colleague stylianides and i are working very closely to address this issue and yesterday, upon our insistence, a lot of diplomatic work, the government communicated that the international red cross will be able to fly in and aid 30 000 of them. but let me be clear, this is a welcome step that can only be the beginning of a path that we have to see continuing, because the bangladeshi authorities have welcomed the many refugees who fled their homes and the international community – and we, first of all, i believe – should not only praise but also support their efforts. as an immediate response to the current situation, the european union has decided to increase our support to bangladesh with another eur 3 million, on top of the eur 12 million aid already provided for myanmar and bangladesh together. these are the two immediate priorities: end the violence and bring in humanitarian aid. but then we have another important task to carry out. we will continue to work with everyone involved to find lasting peace in myanmar to the benefit of the whole population, addressing the structural issue of rakhine. as you mentioned, this is not the first time we have come on this issue. this means that, beyond the acute moment of crisis, we have a responsibility to work on the political scene. there is no doubt that one of the underlying causes of instability in the region is the status of the rohingya minority in myanmar and the underdevelopment of rakhine state. addressing the situation is what we have always asked for in our political dialogue with myanmar over the years, including at high-level meetings and in the eu-myanmar human rights dialogue. as you know, the last resolution adopted by the human rights council, last march, was also a european union initiative. the recommendations of the final report of the advisory commission on rakhine state headed by kofi annan are our point of reference. the government of myanmar has committed itself to taking this report forward and i discussed this issue personally with aung san suu kyi during her visit to brussels just a few months ago. recommendations include the issue of discrimination, poverty alleviation, assurance of basic rights, equal access to education and social services, as well as the promotion of trust and reconciliation. the time to implement the annan report is now because we are seeing what the people of rakhine are facing and they cannot wait any longer. we are ready to support the implementation of these recommendations in all possible ways. the government of myanmar should also continue its cooperation with the united nations and make it stronger including with the un special rapporteur and the un human rights council’s independent fact-finding mission. this is also something we discussed with aung san suu kyi and just last week, once again, all these points were raised directly with the government of myanmar by a european union delegation headed by the european external action service (eeas) and, as you can imagine, by our eu delegation on a daily basis. our coordination stays strong with the un, personal contacts from my side with secretary-general guterres and with my colleagues all over the world on this issue, and we will use the un general assembly ministerial week for continuing intensive consultations and to guarantee that the international community can stay united in facing this issue. myanmar’s struggle for democracy has been a source of inspiration for many around the world, and for me personally and i believe for many of you in this room. the responsibility that the country’s leadership, civilian but also military, faces today is immense exactly because they have been, san suu kyi in particular, a source of inspiration for the democratic world. they need to show that the democracy they fought so hard fought can work for all the people of myanmar, beyond ethnic, social and religious boundaries. during myanmar’s fights for democracy, the international community and europe never left the people of myanmar alone and we will not leave them alone now.
written. for years, the rohingya muslims have been one of the most endangered ethnic groups in the world. they are subjected to the most brutal forms of punishment, including murder, persecution, torture, rape, burning of homes and entire villages. the violence perpetrated against rohingya muslims can be characterised as a crime against humanity and it is necessary to ensure full accountability for the perpetrators and justice for the victims. their right to move is being restricted more and more from year to year, so that it has become almost impossible to get a job and work, to get proper medical care. they are also denied the right to education. the only education they get is elementary and sometimes secondary, which they eventually get in madrassas and mosques, which they're forbidden to build. they are people without any rights and without citizenship. it is time for this terror against the rohingya muslims to end. we need to find ways to ensure a just and peaceful coexistence of different worldviews. human rights belong to all people in every society and should be inalienable. everyone has the right to their own religion, it's something that can't be taken away from anyone. we must not turn a blind eye to the problems of muslims in myanmar, we must work together to find a solution.
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. mr president, madam commissioner, the palestinian-israeli conflict has been a strain on international relations, especially political relations in the middle east, from the very beginning. the situation of palestinians in the west bank and gaza has contributed greatly to distrust of the policies of the western world, including the policies of the european union, and to the radicalisation of the islamic and arab world. i therefore support the objective of the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees, and in particular its work in the field of education, which is the main purpose of its existence and work. i also support the assistance provided by the european union to the work of this agency and in general to the financing and operation of the palestinian state. of course, if there are indications of misuse in the agency's operations and the use of the agency's funds and facilities, those misuses should be carefully investigated. however, it would be correct for the applicants to offer concrete evidence for the allegations of abuses they have made in their interpellation.
mr. president, what i wanted to ask my colleagues from the efdd, but apparently didn't have the courage to come and ask them a question and hear our debate, is a very simple question. i wanted to ask them whether it's better to finance war or to finance peace, whether it's better to spend taxpayers' money creating more madness in the middle east or whether it's better to help the sanity of the middle east, because that's what it's all about. we all know that in the end, always, and above all, the european union and its citizens fund peace and development in particular. fortunately, war is much less funded almost everywhere. since there are none who have asked this question, i want to express my simple position. i support the work of this united nations agency and i simply wish it every success.
on behalf of the ppe group of representatives. mr president, commissioner crețu, as one of the co-signatories of the interpellation on the fires in the european union this summer, it is my duty to take part in today's debate and to draw attention to the extent of the damage caused by the fires and the long-term drought in southern europe, and in particular in croatia and its region of dalmatia. thus, according to the first estimates, there was a data of 42 million kuna of damage without burned forests only in split-dalmatia county, and only during the big fire in the vicinity of split. i believe that the amount of damage will be much higher when all the data from the burned areas in dalmatia, but also in the rest of croatia, is finally collected. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the volunteer and public firefighters, but also all croatian citizens who have tirelessly, courageously and relentlessly helped in the defense of property, nature and, most importantly, protecting and saving human lives. but rather than just thanking and encouraging our firefighters and citizens, i would like to take this opportunity to point out the shortcomings of the existing solidarity mechanisms and instruments of the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate and energy policy. what i am interested in, commissioner, is when the commission intends to mobilise the european solidarity fund to help croatia and the other member states. do you think that after these fires there is a need for a single legislative framework and instrument and body to help coordinate policies and preventive measures to combat such disasters?
on behalf of the alde club of deputies. mr. president, the mediterranean is burning again this year, this summer. in croatia, the worst was in dalmatia. fires are unpredictable, they're hard to control, but we have to do something. we have to put our hands on our hearts and say, first of all, and ask ourselves if we have done enough, because the tragedies that have happened all over the mediterranean are truly incredible. we need more solidarity in europe and we need to use the solidarity fund in a more flexible way. we need to help people, because there have been some really big tragedies. i would like to emphasize, madam commissioner, that i have written to you and, as you know, i have spoken about the macro-strategy of the adriatic-ionian macro-strategy here in this parliament and in that strategy i have written that we need one adriatic centre for disaster prevention, one joint centre for the adriatic and the ionian sea. we do something when we talk about fires, we can do it, we can fund it, it can help people. it's the least we can do, but let's do it now. the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr auštrevičius, i know you as someone who always has very concrete ideas and proposals and i fully support what you are saying. just on the trail of what i suggested, you're kind of suggesting cooperation between countries that are close. i'll just mention the canadaer; italy and croatia share a huge coast of the adriatic sea, and we're so close, and we really should have a common hub, because the canadaer can fly across the adriatic in a few minutes. so i agree with you completely.
mr. president, the fires that have ravaged croatia this year have not been remembered in the last few decades. in august alone, 44,000 acres burned with great material damage, but fortunately no human casualties. summer fires are a constant problem in europe, especially in the mediterranean region. i therefore thank mr caputo and the other colleagues who raised this issue and i also support their proposals to activate the european solidarity fund and to set up a european intervention mechanism. i think that these instruments, which should certainly be activated, should focus on solidarity in fighting fires and perhaps, more importantly, on joint prevention of fires in the border areas of the european union.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr president, mr vella, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of marine resources is an important part of european policies, and the biggest challenge is how to reconcile the interests of fishermen, which we must also take into account when adopting new regulations. the situation on the ground is changing very rapidly and we must not delay if we are to achieve and maintain a long-term balance between these two objectives that make fishing a sustainable and profitable activity. it is unacceptable that the european commission is proposing to carry over the iccat recommendations with a delay of four years and nine years respectively, because much has changed since then in the sea and for the people who live off it. i call on the commission to take account of the time limits in its subsequent actions and to react in a timely manner. since i come from croatia, i cannot help but reflect on the question of the quota for igloos. the croatian fishing fleet is oriented only to the adriatic sea and does not go out to other parts of the mediterranean or to the oceans as is the practice among the fleets of other member states. the mediterranean sea is of key importance for the survival of croatian fisheries, but also of coastal and island communities, which must be taken into account in the allocation of quotas. i therefore wish to express my strong opposition to the quotas for the catch of igloos which have been allocated to us and i ask that those for croatia be increased because the proposed quotas will deal a serious blow to croatian fisheries.
madam president, the intrusion of lawmakers into the private sphere to the extent that this and similar reports recommend is characteristic of totalitarian regimes, not democratic systems. how a husband and wife divide up household chores and how much time each spends on children is not a matter of politics. it's a matter of agreement within the family that the state should have nothing to do with. women must have the same starting position in the market as men and be assessed on the basis of their competence, not their gender. i myself was a victim of discrimination and went through a difficult path to be treated like my male colleagues. in the end, i beat the system with my ability and my perseverance, not by someone's grace. quotas are demeaning to women because they automatically mark them as less valuable, and they serve only certain circles to achieve their political goals more easily. the so-called istanbul convention is also serving the same purpose, openly promoting gender ideology and that's why i hope croatia will not ratify it.
madam president, the united kingdom has been an important engine in the economic liberalisation of europe and the creation of the prerequisites for the establishment of a single market in the full sense of the word. her leadership in removing redundant regulations, removing barriers and opening our markets, and her clear advocacy of national sovereignty and the principle of subsidiarity will be missed by this community. but the british have made clear their will to leave the european union and it is now up to us to make this process go as smoothly as possible for citizens and businesses on both sides of the channel. i voted against this resolution because it unnecessarily recommends further complicating this already complicated divorce. parliament should not interfere too much in the brexit negotiations, but leave it to the commission and the council. otherwise, the negotiations will become even more complicated on our part as the european elections draw nearer and our future close relationship with the united kingdom cannot be a victim of populism and politics.
mr president, child marriage is incompatible with what europe is today - an advanced civilization based on the rule of law. our legal system puts this form of violence against the most vulnerable members of society outside the bounds of permissibility and this should be respected by all residents of the member states of the union, regardless of their own cultural or religious heritage. the problem is that when people from different minorities are automatically categorized as vulnerable groups, they are allowed to do things that no one else is allowed to do. one of these things is child marriage, which is a dominant practice in europe in minority communities. this is another issue that shows the need for better integration policies and consistent law enforcement in europe. the law must be the same for all, or we shall be returning to some ugly times which the european peoples do not remember with particular nostalgia.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, it doesn't take much evidence to believe that climate change exists, it's obvious. and that's why i'm guided by jean-claude juncker's speech, where he said that we as the european union must lead the fight against climate change when he spoke about the state of the european union. it's clear that it's going to be very difficult to make up for the united states leaving, but bonn is an opportunity for the european union to continue to be a leader here. but we need to move from our political decisions to concrete actions and we need to make our decisions concrete. specifically, we need to get to the 100 billion euros a year, or dollars a year, that we've been talking about, by 2020 to really be able to implement all of these conclusions. what i believe in is energy efficiency, it's energy security, it's less air pollution to affect better human health. i also believe that we need to use, in every diplomatic dialogue, to use as our strategic basis, the talk about climate change and the fight against climate change. we also have to fight all these situations in a way that puts climate change at the forefront, that puts the fight on a planetary level. no national policy, no national strategy can achieve anything on its own, and that is why we are going to bonn together and trying to continue to position ourselves as the bearers of the fight against climate change.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr president, i fully agree with you and i believe that the trade agreements we are entering into and signing must bear precisely these characteristics, namely the fight against climate change and must bear all that leads to sustainable development. i agree with you. i am sorry that we are leaving the negotiations with the united states of america, and i am glad that ceta has come into force and that we are continuing further negotiations with new zealand and other countries, and i trust that the european union will protect its interests and the interests of our national states.
mr president, the proposals contained in this package of measures will make the safety system for passenger ships simpler, more modern and more efficient. both the commission and the rapporteur have adopted a flexible approach towards smaller vessels of less than 24 metres and smaller shipowners who mainly operate short domestic voyages of less than 20 nautical miles. this is a good approach because it will not make it more difficult for smaller shipowners to do business, but it will still raise the level of passenger safety. the principle of proportionality in such cases is important to apply in order not to place an excessive burden on small carriers and make them uncompetitive, leading to major traffic challenges and job losses. i agree with the rapporteur that it is extremely important to take into account the protection of passenger data and that they must be automatically destroyed after they have served their purpose. we must avoid manipulation of data if we are to win the confidence of passengers and shippers in the new system.
mr. president, the european council will once again discuss illegal migration flows and nothing will change after that discussion. why would you do that? because there is no consensus in the european union on immigration policy, let alone on how to combat illegal migration. as long as that is the case, some members will continue to encourage immigration for their own reasons, and some will continue to resist it. in such circumstances, no effective policy can be adopted and implemented. this is where the differences between the members are most apparent. some are willing to accept mass immigration for their national interest, primarily because of the aging of the indigenous population and the shortage of labor, while others have a significantly different economic situation and see this as a threat to their culture and tradition. if we are to be truly 'united in diversity', european immigration policy must take account of the arguments, desires and ambitions of both sides of this debate. that has not been the case until now and that has to change.
mr. president, i thank the court of auditors for their report. these reports are always very important to us, because they help us to improve the way we manage the eu budget. of course, what we have to be careful about is that, in addition to focusing on the legitimate purpose in accordance with the rules for the use of resources, we also focus on the efficient and timely use of resources and the fulfillment of the set objectives and results. i therefore appeal to the court of auditors to make as many recommendations and assessments as possible in its audits of how european objectives are being met in the member states through the use of european funds. whether we create new jobs, whether we reduce youth unemployment, whether we achieve growth and development that is long-term and sustainable, that is what i have to look at together. also, if we simplify the system it's important that the auditors follow it, for example when it comes to the simplified cost method.
madam president, i am in favour of strengthening judicial cooperation between member states, particularly with regard to the implementation of the european arrest and investigation warrant, and of further developing cooperation between national police forces at bilateral level, but also within common instruments such as europol or eurosur. i believe that close cooperation is important if we are to have a functioning community and a single market. however, i also consider that the initiative to initiate legal proceedings should remain the exclusive competence of national public prosecutors. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the european public prosecutor's office has been entrusted with the task of ensuring that the european public prosecutor's office is able to effectively deal with complaints and investigations. in cases of fraud against the financial interests of the union, i would remind you that we have recently adopted a directive which harmonises the judicial frameworks of the member states in this area and we should therefore work on improving this mechanism rather than creating parallel institutions.
written. more than one third of member states recognised that prison overcrowding in the european union is a persistent problem, and the situation continues to worsen in some member states, seriously affecting the quality of prison conditions and having serious effects on both the health and well-being of prisoners and the safety and well-being of prison staff. each member state should respect the prison rules derived from international law instruments and council of europe standards because deprivation of liberty does not mean deprivation of dignity! the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's reform agenda, in particular through the implementation of the european union strategy for the reform of prisons and prison systems, and through the implementation of the european union strategy for the reform of prisons and prison systems. in addition, prisoners should be provided with access to educational and vocational qualifications and to employment and training for the purpose of their rehabilitation, thereby enabling them to lead a life free of crime after their sentences have expired. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded programmes and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded programmes.
written. the human rights situation in the maldives and the gradual deterioration of democratic standards are of concern. nor should we ignore the increasing presence of authoritarian tendencies in the maldives, nor the promulgation of a new libel law that criminalizes "defamatory" speech or a law that requires written permission from the police to hold protests in malé. freedom of assembly and freedom of the press should be guaranteed, not violated. censorship of the media is totally unjustified because freedom and independence of the media is a fundamental tool of democracy. the european union must promote the rule of law, including in the maldives, by all available instruments in order to eliminate the current lack of judicial independence. promoting democracy, human rights and the rule of law is at the heart of the european union's external policy. i call for a fair trial for the arrested journalists and political opponents because arbitration awards are unacceptable. i support the motion for a resolution on the violation of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law and i believe that the maldives needs eu development assistance and close monitoring of the human rights situation and the political situation in the country.
madam president, i cannot understand how the commission can ignore the fact that 8% of european gdp and 14 million people working in the social economy deserve a coherent european action plan in synergy with the member states. let us never forget the synergy with what european regions, cities and municipalities can contribute in europe, because they too can participate in the social economy. in fact, they are participating, and let my experience speak for itself on how important it is that at the local and regional level the state, and now i would argue the european union, is involved in solving problems in the social economy. i'm just going to highlight one of them, because we don't have time, and that's the way to fund and facilitate more affordable funding for these kinds of businesses. i think the commission has an important role to play here.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank mr nilsson and his colleagues from the intergroup on social economy for this initiative. at the same time, i take this opportunity to thank mr. nilsson for not using the word neoliberal economy when he talks about liberal economy, which is often used in my country very loosely, without any real insight into what it actually means. of all the objectives that the european action plan for the social economy seeks to achieve, social cohesion is the most important for me personally. i think that as the modern world develops, and the european union as well, solidarity is being lost - both social solidarity and individual solidarity. it is therefore important to help those in need in a solidarity way to take their place in society and in the world of work. i therefore fully support the views of my colleague and the honourable member and call on the commission to start implementing the european action plan for the social economy as soon as possible.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. madam president, mr kelly - you have spoken about your experience or at least you have spoken about how people with disabilities work in the social economy of ireland. i have a lot of experience with these people and i wonder if there are any special benefits in ireland for companies that employ a large number of disabled people or are based mainly on doing business with disabled people, are there any benefits in terms of lower taxes, some relief - local, regional, national; are there any or are there simply no such benefits?
mr president, i am convinced that the european economy can and must be based on top quality and that only a top quality product can truly survive as a european product in the long term. i am therefore convinced that high standards of environmental protection and food safety are the preconditions for our long-term competitiveness. today we're talking about what choice means for the farmer, and i think that in that element there is precisely a way to satisfy all the interests in this house because farmers have a right to their choice, but we have to, i'm convinced of that, encourage precisely those who want to maximize environmental protection and food safety and, of course, i think we have to also encourage technology and innovation in the agricultural sector. it's a pathway, i'm convinced, through which we can find common ground.
mr. president, psychoactive substances and their precursors have never been produced and distributed globally at a rate greater than today. the increased availability of knowledge and modern technology has brought with it, along with all its positive effects, abuses such as the manufacture and distribution of drugs. we must stop these abuses, not by limiting the availability of knowledge and technology, but on the contrary, by using them to develop smart and effective policies and advanced systems to combat organised crime. the proposal before us today is of exceptional quality because it establishes an appropriate and effective framework for the early detection, rapid notification and elimination of new psychoactive substances from the european market, without compromising the principle of subsidiarity. this constructive approach should also be applied in bilateral relations with third countries, which are often the source of new psychoactive substances and their precursors, in order to stop this evil at its source.
mr. president, always and everywhere, but really always and everywhere, i will do everything to get the drugs out, to get the drugs out because they, it doesn't take much to repeat, how bad it is for humanity, how bad it is especially for the young. unfortunately, i've had some bad experiences. some of my friends, some of my acquaintances, they've gone off to overdose. but i've had some positive experiences. the experience of istria at a lower level, not at the world, not at the european, not at the national level, can help because there are good examples of the fight against the challenge of drug abuse, the coordinated action of the law enforcement agencies, but also of the educational, educational institutions, as well as the health institutions when we already have addicts. honest conversations with addicts can help, but it's up to us to try to effectively prevent all of this from happening because the rapid growth of drugs is unfortunately something we're witnessing today.
mr. president, whistle-blowers and whistleblowers, and how they deserve and deserve our complete protection. i want to take this opportunity to thank the reporter and everyone who worked on this great document because we needed it before. the european parliament is generally not behind when it comes to the subjects of public life, freedom, democracy. we may be a little behind in this area at the moment, but i believe we can make rapid and clear progress. this document allows us to do just that. i remember some examples from croatia, a very famous one, a whistleblower connected to the largest croatian company at the time, ina, the oil industry, and i know what she went through and what kind of situation she was in, and it was all done in the public interest. i would therefore like to give my full support to all the intentions we have in this context, because i am sure that much will be revealed more easily if parliament clearly takes the side of those who want the best for us.
mr. president, whistleblowers are of great importance to any society because they are people who put their own well-being at risk to bring hidden information to the public's attention. too often, such sacrifices are not appreciated by society to the degree they deserve and they are marginalized. whistleblower protection is therefore a necessity if we are to encourage citizens to disclose information of public interest without fear or hesitation. first of all, i am thinking here of a high-quality legislative framework at national level which should be adopted by all member states. but i must emphasize that absolute legal protection for whistleblowers such as the whistleblower and some of my colleagues are calling for is simply not possible. if we were to completely deny the other party, the one who is considered to be harmed, the right to seek justice in court, we would de facto be legalizing abuse of office, defamation and willful breach of contract. not all cases are the same, and it would not be wise to apply special rules to them. whether they apply to a particular case of a whistleblower is, however, a matter for the courts to decide.
mr. president, the idea of a minimum income as a negative income tax that would replace all other social transfers and drastically reduce administration is increasingly being abused by the economic left. the goal of the guaranteed minimum income, as conceived by milton friedman, is not to introduce another social measure at the expense of the productive part of the population, but just the opposite: to simplify the social system in such a way that the state provides the basic conditions for life for all, not just for some, while everyone else should work. since employment would not deprive people of their right to a minimum income, as is the case with various welfare measures, people would have a greater incentive to seek work in order to earn extra money. on the other hand, those who want to volunteer and do charitable work would have more time for such activities because they have a basic income guaranteed. unfortunately, this report is about something else entirely and i could not support it even if it did not seriously violate the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, the youth guarantee has delivered some results, particularly in member states that have struggled to recover from the crisis and where youth unemployment has been at record levels for years. the rapporteur was well aware of the challenges facing the programme today, and the solution could be to adapt the recommended measures to the local context with greater involvement of representatives of employers and educational institutions with a strong local or regional impact. i believe that the youth guarantee has a future, but calls for additional appropriations from national budgets could prove counterproductive. if we take more money from employers through taxes to fund this program, we will reduce their ability to grow and employ and thus limit the success of the program itself. let's not fall into that trap.
mr president, the adoption of the clean energy package is underway in the bodies of the european union, including the european parliament. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union strategy and its implementation in the light of the new energy policy guidelines. i just want to point out some of these areas, like, say, new biofuels, like new energy storage techniques, including batteries, and like new materials in the energy efficiency of buildings. but what i want to stress in particular and call on the commission to develop specific sectoral policies, for example in the area of transport in the context of new clean energy innovations, and something else i want to stress in particular, is the need not to leave rural areas behind and to take this opportunity with new technologies and to reduce the deprivation in the northern european union.
mr. president, croatia is completing its final tasks to enter the schengen area. as important as this is for our economy, especially for tourism, i will remind you that in istria there were kilometer columns at the border crossings in the sixth month because croatia is not a member of schengen. i therefore call on the commission to do everything, including non-bureaucratic measures with strong political support, to bring croatia into the schengen area as soon as possible, as this will further contribute to the stabilisation of the situation in the western balkans. also, croatia is at this moment making the right right preparations for the eurozone, for entering the eurozone, for the process of entering the eurozone. and here i expect the commission to give strong support to our country, because croatia deserves to enter both the schengen area and the eurozone. do everything, including political methods, to resolve this problem as soon as possible for our country.
madam president, peace, freedom, democracy are not implied. they are the fruit of our common aspirations and the fruit of our enjoyment of european and common common values: schengen, the eurozone, 24 languages, the principle of solidarity - these are all values that we want to continue to enjoy. mr kovachev mentioned bulgaria and romania, i will mention croatia. we want to be part of schengen too and i hope we can do that together. i cannot help but express once again my regret at brexit, but also, as it is already here, i want to express that a fair divorce is needed and that financial commitments and all other commitments that have been made must be honoured. i also cannot help but express my regret for the situation in catalonia. mr tusk, after juncker's state of the union speech, after macron's interesting speech, comes your leaders' agenda. i'm very optimistic, you announce a lot of themes, but we also need to find real solutions to real problems of our citizens to feel what we are actually doing together, to solve problems, and the biggest problems right now are fear of security or insecurity, then migration, but also unemployment in europe, which is still prevalent, especially in some new european countries. i therefore look forward to the debate on the subjects you have announced: the euro area, migration and the change in asylum, which we have introduced here in our parliament, a new asylum policy. i also look forward to other topics, particularly the topic of common european defence. i hope we can succeed together and that you can find a compromise within the council.
madam president, i congratulate the presidency on its impressive achievements in digitisation and hope that the directive will be adopted to enable the whole of the european union, urban and rural areas, mountain areas and islands, to share a digital future with equally accessible content and services. i welcome the council's support for the return of schengen. entry into schengen is a strategic goal of croatia. i hope that once we meet the criteria, the european institutions will prevent a possible political blockade of our entry. the credibility of the european union also depends on whether the barbed wire that our neighbours - the eu member states - have pulled on our borders is removed. i support the launch of pesco and additional defence coordination, in particular the stronger involvement of smes in joint projects financed by european funds and programmes. it is good that the next meeting of the leaders' programme will already be devoted to social europe, jobs and growth. the eu-western balkans summit is also working, but the discussions should focus on enlargement, not just on helping these countries in the event of a new migrant crisis.
mr. president, this report is extremely important because it sends a clear message that the youth guarantee program is a worthwhile program. of course, it also requires all of us to increase its efficiency, to make sure that as many young people as possible are in long-term employment and that this is its main result. but the proof that it is cost effective is the 14 million young people who have gone through new forms of education, additional forms of education, the two million young people who have managed to get a job thanks to the activities of this programme. always strive for a better and higher quality result. so, of course, we need to continue to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and encourage young people to be self-employed and to have an education that will enable them to get a job immediately, rather than to be educated only after they leave school and start working.
mr president, i welcome commissioner oettinger, the main message of the 2018 budget is that although the funds are limited we want to make it clear that we can and want to respond to the challenges facing the european union, and this is reflected in the budget. so, security and stability are also at the forefront, and challenges such as youth unemployment, the fight against poverty, the need for new knowledge and skills, innovation, investing in small and medium-sized enterprises. the second message is that we want to speed up cohesion policy, the implementation of projects, because these are projects that are visible in the daily lives of our citizens and necessary to strengthen the european economy. the third message is that we do not want to reduce the amount of horizon 2020 and the connecting europe facility, because these are the programmes that are key to the basic infrastructure, fundamental to achieving stronger growth, and that is our ultimate goal.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank mr. díaz de mary for this very professional and professional report and for his dedicated work. i was also pleased to hear from our commissioner avramopoulos that if we meet the criteria, and we hope to do so by the end of 2018, croatia will be part of schengen. this is very important for us, because we have a huge external border, and we said that this project, this report, is precisely for better protection of the external borders. so, you don't have to show your passport at the schengen border if we adopt this project. i do not see it as a political project, i see it as solely for the improvement of checks at the external borders, but it is also very important for checks on those third-country nationals who have stayed in a given country longer than they have been entitled to do so by a visa. therefore, i fully support this project, since you said that 2020 will come into force, i believe that by then we, the croatian state, will also be a member of schengen and that we will be able to access this great project. and for those who are torn between data protection and human rights and counterterrorism and security, i say that the security of citizens comes first and we want the security of citizens of the european union to come first, and so i really congratulate you again and i'm glad that we reached a consensus. i believe we will vote overwhelmingly for this motion.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr augustin díaz de mari, on his comprehensive report, which i regret to say has some reservations. member states located at the external borders of the european union are more exposed to security threats due to their long external borders and their openness to threats originating from third countries. i therefore consider that they should be given special attention within the regulation establishing an entry/exit system for the registration of entry and exit data of third-country nationals crossing the external borders of the european union. while this proposal for a regulation aimed at establishing an effective mechanism to further strengthen security within the european union, there are certain shortcomings in its implementation that could and do endanger the security of the european union. what i see as a key flaw in this proposal is the unequal treatment of all member states in the application of this mechanism, i.e. application in the schengen member states, while implementation is delayed in the countries located on the external borders of the european union, which include croatia. the application of this regulation in member states which are not part of the schengen area may affect the impossibility of registration of the stay of third-country nationals, and any omissions could thus pose a threat to the states at the external borders, their citizens, but also to everyone else. the uneven application of the regulation, the delay in application in the member states of the european union which are on the external borders, await full membership of the schengen area.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur and thank the commissioner and the rapporteur for mentioning the need to join the eea member states that are not yet in the schengen area as soon as possible. this is the system of promotion and security of the european union, but until it is applied in all the member states we cannot, unfortunately, talk about protecting the external borders of the european union but about protecting the schengen area. it is precisely because it is a system that will facilitate the fight against terrorism, organised crime, illegal migration and cross-border movements that all member states should be involved from the start of the operational application of the regulation to protect the external borders. only then will this regulation have full meaning and positive effects on the internal security of the european union and on cross-border traffic as well. croatia makes up 1350 km of the european union's external border and, if it is not in this system, it makes the entire european union vulnerable, not just croatia.
madam president, as the representative from croatia, the member state with the longest external land border, i am extremely pleased that the union is finally addressing the challenges of migration in a constructive way and is working to bring order to the system and to protect its external borders. but a good legal solution cannot produce results unless it is applied consistently, so i expect that, contrary to some announcements, the regulation will be implemented at the external borders from the start of its operational application, as its name implies. unequal application to schengen members and to countries like croatia, which are not yet schengen members, would undermine our efforts to protect the interests of all members without discrimination and to raise the level of security throughout the european union. the operational challenges that would arise from the uneven application of this regulation are also not negligible and i therefore consider that the equal application should be our absolute priority.
the republic of croatia has made all the necessary preparations and is ready to take a step further in its membership of the european family and become a member of the schengen area. this is good for croatia and for the other member states. in addition to the abolition of border controls with the member states of the european union and of passport controls at airports for travel to and from the schengen countries, entry into the schengen area will also strengthen security at the external borders of the european union. the longest external border of the european union is precisely the border of the republic of croatia with bosnia and herzegovina, and it is therefore in the european union's interest to protect this border even more strongly and as soon as possible. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the schengen acquis to all persons who are not nationals of a member state, and to all persons who are not nationals of a member state. the european union must ensure equal treatment for all its member states and must not discriminate against countries on the way to schengen, and i therefore expect croatia to automatically become part of the entry/exit system in order to be able to collect and share data more effectively.
madam president, this is a great test for parliament to show that we are prepared to implement the recommendations we send. this is a very important moment to send a long-term message to victims of abuse, both in the european parliament and throughout the european union. the proposal of the european people's party to set up an investigative body within the parliament is unacceptable to me. it sends a message that something might be being covered up, and that's the worst message we can send at this point. i call on my colleagues to support the socialist and democrat proposal to establish a body of external experts to investigate the allegations. we can't just send our assistants a 15-page brochure and say we've solved the problem. some want to show that the istanbul convention is the one that harms families and women. it should be said loud and clear: violence is what hurts women and families. we need to create a safe framework for reporting, empower victims, and on the other hand, show through tough penalties that parliament has zero tolerance for violence.
madam president, i am shocked by the allegations i have read in the media regarding the allegations of sexual harassment of assistants by certain members of the european parliament and i call for a thorough investigation to be carried out to bring the whole case to light and to punish the perpetrators. no institution in the world where many people work together is, unfortunately, immune to abuse of power and inappropriate behaviour, and neither are the european institutions. however, it is important to respond appropriately to such wrongdoing so that it is not repeated. praiseworthy are campaigns like metoo that allow for the creation of a safe platform where victims feel safe enough to share their experiences, which they would not otherwise have the courage to do because of fear or distrust of the system. bullying has a corrosive effect on society as a whole and it is the duty of all of us to respond to all forms of abuse, violence and abuse of power. only by being open, supportive, and courageous can the changes necessary to eradicate any kind of inappropriate behavior be made.
madam president, sexual harassment and assault are not justifiable. when it comes to the eu institutions and harassment in the workplace, it is regrettable that it takes a major public scandal for the authorities to address this problem. if it is true that this has been happening for years in this building and that victims have often been discouraged from reporting because it has created a climate in which such primitive behavior has been more or less acceptable, it should be shown that it is not and that it must be severely punished. anyone who reports harassment or abuse should be given maximum protection by being guaranteed that they will not lose their job as a result of reporting and must be provided with professional assistance. if we want a europe where people from disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds are not treated as slaves and treated as less than human beings, the european parliament must lead by example and that is why responsible behaviour must start here and now.
written. if anyone in the european parliament or any other european or other institution has abused their position to the detriment of the dignity of others, then both the perpetrators and those who knew and kept quiet must be held accountable and severely sanctioned. harassment at work, or anywhere else, must not and cannot be acceptable in any form. people who have experienced any form of harassment at work and elsewhere should be encouraged to report the harassment to the police. it is up to the rest of us to support them and remove abusers from responsible positions in the european parliament, where the majority performs their duties with honour, responsibility and the invaluable help of their members and their teams.
mr president, i appreciate the support of my group for the implementation of this regulation at the external borders of the union, and not just schengen. however, a compromise involving only the member states in the application of the schengen acquis and not those in the process of fulfilling the schengen criteria is not acceptable. this proposal excludes croatia, the youngest member with the longest external border, after croatia successfully implemented the schengen information system in june. since then, croatian border services have carried out 74 million checks and detected over 4 000 offenders of various offences in the member states of the european union. the application of this regulation makes it impossible to change the validity of a schengen visa which croatia recognises as equivalent to croatia. due to the lack of access to the new system, croatian border guards might let a person with an invalid visa through. entry into schengen is a strategic goal of croatia. we expect to successfully meet all the criteria next year. for this reason, and in the interests of equality of citizens, this proposal should be extended to all member states from the outset. security should be available to all our citizens without exception.
mr. president, about 100,000 migrants have arrived in italy this year alone, and the libyan coast guard intercepted 16,500 migrants. the conditions of those who arrive in europe are already difficult enough, and winter is coming. two weeks ago, in one single operation, over 600 migrants were rescued, 200 of them children. they all trusted their lives and the lives of their families to human smugglers. this year, as many as 2,500 migrants have died in the mediterranean sea, which has long been the deadliest sea in the world. at the same time, the only concrete thing the council agreed on was mechanisms for stronger external border controls. last week's conclusions on the mediterranean route full of declarations are the best proof of this. it is high time for concrete solidarity between member states, but also for concrete mechanisms to strengthen the european common and security policy. the european union needs to evolve from donor to creator of international policy from payer to player. he must strengthen his presence in the devastated areas. the long-term solution is always where the problem arises.
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur on her comprehensive report and her proposals for improving the directive. the directive is indeed general and several unclear terms in it further complicate its application. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. the directive is furthermore applicable only to certain types of environmental damage and this makes it further restricted. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, in particular by assessing the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests. the commission considers that the measures in question are not imputable to the state. i personally welcome the idea of establishing a european fund for the removal of environmental damage. it is also a good idea to extend the existing definition of damage to air, flora, fauna, landscape and, most importantly, human health. i support the revision of the directive and mrs ferrara's proposals.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the situation in the european union, which is a very important document, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his work in this area. there will always be those who are for and against one side or the other, but i think we need to use this debate for something else. not just for confrontation, but for a constructive contribution to the exchange of experience at the level of the european union, the exchange of experience between countries. in many ways, many standards are similar, but not all. so let's say in this particular case where we have very different, i would even say vaccination traditions for newborns or children. so croatia has some of its own traditions, some of its own situations. i think that is the role of the commission, and that is where i want to encourage the commission and the commissioner to really do a very, very well-funded study and to propose, in a way, what could be some kind of guideline for the future because both the quality of life and the quality of life of newborns and all young people is increasing day by day. and these experiences that exist in the european union i think it is very wise and necessary to exchange.
madam president, even before this question was tabled, there was a debate on whether there was excessive or harmful vaccination. it's basically a broader question of whether there is overuse of drugs in general for the benefit of the pharmaceutical industry, and it's just as much, very present in the public. i am convinced that vaccination is useful and i support the commissioner's arguments, but i still think that, given the questions that exist in the public, it is good that colleagues have raised this question, in particular the question that the commission should offer evidence and information on whether there is a difference between vaccination and mandatory and non-mandatory vaccination and whether there is a possibility of unnecessarily vaccinating or, indirectly, whether there is an interest of the pharmaceutical industry, which is not in the interest of the health of citizens. i also support the call on the commission to work towards standardising, introducing uniform or similar rules or coordinating vaccination efforts in the european union. and i'm glad that in the end the commissioner concluded his speech by saying that the european commission is making efforts to increase vaccination in the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, rapporteur, honourable members, i wish to thank, first of all, the rapporteur ms mihaylova, and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive approach to the proposal. following fruitful cooperation between the three institutions, in particular at the trilogue, i believe we have reached our common objective. regions in the european union are very diverse. we see that regions with urban characteristics sometimes work very differently from rural regions and face different challenges. while urban regions often offer better economic opportunities and infrastructure, they might face problems like pollution, traffic congestion, crime and overcrowding. rural regions, on the other hand, often lack infrastructure. these differences can also be observed when it comes to coastal regions, in which a large share of gdp is generated by the blue or ocean-centric economy. tercet will help our understanding of these phenomena by aggregating pre-existing data by typology. by doing so, it will back socio-economic territorial analysis and help to shape good evidence-based policy. the proposal is quite timely as it, for instance, includes a definition of cities that helps support the implementing of the urban agenda and city-focused policy. as of now, there is no agreed legal definition of what a city actually is in union law and this, as we all know, hinders a common understanding of the term and leads to the risk that we might not speak about the same thing when we talk about cities. to ensure a harmonised use of the term and a consistent application, it is vital that we achieve an unambiguous interpretation of the concept of cities, and of course the same applies for rural areas.
on behalf of the s&d club, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. we know that eurostat publishes a wide range of regional statistics in accordance with the regulation establishing a common classification of territorial units for statistics, more popularly known as nuts. these statistics are widely used in decision-making at the level of the european union's regional policy and in determining the type of support from the cohesion fund for which european regions can apply. the current nuts regulation does not yet cover spatial typologies, which is addressed by this proposal. spatial typologies are also used in the european statistical system, in particular the degree of urbanisation and the definition of cities. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of public procurement. however, the ess still does not officially recognise these typologies due to their undefined legal status. the commission's explanatory memorandum to the proposal rightly states that territorial typologies have a major impact on regional policies, providing useful evidence that can help to develop adequate proposals and more integrated territorial approaches. this would give due recognition to the diversity of the regions of the european union. we need more statistical data because of the irrefutably significant differences between types of territory, which are not always the same in the member states. in response to this need, the proposed regulation aims to legally recognise regional typologies at the level of nuts 3, local administrative units and network cells, in order to integrate them into the existing nuts regulation. the proposed territorial typologies of the code are mainly: urban, rural, urban and coastal areas. this will allow thematic statistical regulations and pole initiatives to collect european statistics through territorial typologies in order to effectively identify the needs of individual areas in a fact-based manner. i support the initiative which therefore seeks to establish spatial typologies for the purposes of european statistics, thus ensuring, on the basis of definitions and statistical criteria, a harmonised and transparent application at the level of the european union and the member states. however, the division into urban, rural, urban and coastal areas is not comprehensive, and this was a great opportunity to recognise the spatial typologies of the european islands, which are home to more than 17 million inhabitants and whose special status is already recognised by article 174 of the treaty of lisbon. the islanders rightly ask how adequate policies can be created for islands if their status is not recognised. one of the big problems with all the initiatives that we're trying to implement is the lack of statistical data to base them on. the application of statistics at island level would allow a thorough overview of the characteristics of these areas, many of which are common, irrespective of the geographical position, size or level of development of the islands. such data should be comparable with other areas of typology and should greatly facilitate the development of targeted provisions of union legislation whenever necessary. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment and the implementation of the eu's policy on the environment. the adoption of this proposal is a good step forward, but we must continue to work on improving it in order to really demonstrate unity in our territorial diversity in practice.
on behalf of the ecr club. madam president, spatial typologies that have been used for years will be incorporated into the legal system of the union by this regulation, so that in the future we can rely on more accurate statistics to guide many european policies. i believe this will lead to a review of some of the statistical breakdowns used so far in order to make even better use of the funds. i will take the example of croatia, which is divided into two nuts ii regions in such a way that some of the poorest parts of pannonian croatia are placed in the same region as the most developed north-western part of the country, making it difficult for them to access funds. of course, that has to be corrected. i am pleased that this proposal will allow some non-managed units to deviate from the established thresholds due to specific geographical, socioeconomic, historical, cultural or environmental circumstances. this is particularly important for islands where we need to further facilitate participation in the funds in order to prevent further depopulation and reduce the economic marginalisation of the island population.
on behalf of the alde club. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the honourable member, mrs iskra mikhailova, chair of the committee on regional development, for her contribution to this report and for informing us of the commission's intentions. and of course, i would like to emphasize right away my support for this step forward that the commission wants to make with this act and to highlight three principles that i think are really important and embedded in this document, namely accuracy in the data, consistency in the approach to the terminology, comparability when we talk, for example, about gross domestic product. so all of these principles are extremely important to me, and that's why i believe that in this way the territorial typologies that we have, as a proposal for a new concept in a way, will really see the light of day in a much better way than it does today. i have some experience of that as a former istrian mayor. i know what the problems are in the division of the regions into nuts regions and what the situation was like in our country, in croatia, when we divided croatia, we tried to make a fair division of nuts regions. we have some serious problems here. and that is why i support this introduction of local government because i believe that this way we will be able to conduct cohesion policy even better and that we will have better data, more accurate statistics so that we can make better decisions and better and more help to different regions, different cities that need this help and how. what i want to end by pointing out are two things. first, i want to offer the commission the experience that croatia has when it comes to collecting data in tourism. tourism is important for croatia, but croatia has a great track record of collecting data when it comes to the tourism industry. and secondly, let us not forget that the objectives of cohesion policy have not yet been achieved. we have not yet achieved cohesion policy properly in our parliament, and that is why i call on the commission to make sure that cohesion policy is better than it is today.
on behalf of the ecr club. mr. president, the persecution of christians is a frequent topic in this house, and it is the best indication that we have no capacity, and clearly no sincere desire, to work diligently on solutions that would improve their situation. if we had, the situation would have improved after the previous discussions and we would not be here today to repeat what has been said so many times. unfortunately, the european union is increasingly fleeing its christian roots, so it is no wonder that in such an identity crisis, its leaders, as well as its citizens, are less and less willing to sacrifice their prosperity to help christians in the world. aid does not mean invasion of foreign countries or the destruction of other cultures, but primarily a political and diplomatic struggle for the institutional equality of christians where they are a minority and the establishment of the rule of law that would finally protect their lives and property. the union is the largest donor to third countries, an important trading partner for many of them, and has a strong ambition to become a true global player, an indispensable partner in crisis management. if the union is to have any real global credibility, it should use its resources to help christians in need today. how will people of other religions and cultures trust us if they see that we have turned our backs on those with whom we share christian values?
mr. president, ngos in their annual reports on the persecution of christians conclude that this year has been the most terrible year yet in terms of the persecution of christians. the number of lands where christians are persecuted increases year by year. 108 countries in 2014, 20 more countries in 2015. in 2016, there were 1,329 attacks on churches in 62 countries. more than 200 million christians in the 50 countries of the world where it is most difficult to be a christian are subject to persecution because of their faith. some estimates put the number of persecuted christians as high as 600 million. we in parliament too often talk about the persecution of christians, but unfortunately action is lacking. hungary has established a state secretariat to provide direct aid to persecuted christians, and i hereby call on other member states to provide direct aid to christians in distress. i also call on the high representative, mrs mogherini, to strengthen the role and mandate of the special envoy for the promotion of freedom of religion or belief outside the european union so that he becomes a central part of the european union's foreign policy system.
mr president, this is one of the few subjects on which we can all agree in this house and i am glad that it has come up. this is just one of the species that we want to protect because it's clear that human activity has caused problems with marine habitats, and the posidonia oceanica is particularly at risk. we've already heard that it's one of the endemic species of the mediterranean sea, and more than half of the oxygen we breathe comes from the sea. we can call them the lungs of the sea because they enrich the sea with oxygen. coastal marine habitats are essential for the conversion of carbon dioxide into oxygen and for the productivity of marine resources. posidonia oceanica is the best indicator of the overall quality of coastal waters because it is very sensitive to pollution and can only grow in clean, unpolluted waters. one square meter of posidonia meadow produces up to fourteen liters of oxygen a day. it is home to many species of algae, but also to animals, crustaceans, cephalopods, shells, sponges, and so forth. meadows grow very slowly, as we have heard, and they regenerate even slower. these habitats are clearly under great pressure, either directly from humans or as a result of global climate change. the threat is particularly acute from fishing with barges and dynamite, but also from anchoring, pollution and construction in the coastal area. so i think that anchoring should be stopped by building marinas systematically, and also by treating waste water. i am here personally representing croatia, which is the home of most of the adriatic, and i am sure that with a ban on anchoring and better planning, this could be avoided. in any case, we know that the commission is doing a lot of work. we heard it from commissioner velle. however, we expect the commission to make an even greater commitment. you yourself said that you were satisfied with the way these habitats are managed in only four of the seven countries, and so this is an opportunity to invite non-eu countries to get involved and to become more engaged in protecting the seas, in protecting the future of our children.
madam president, tax avoidance through offshore accounts is nothing new, so the paradise papers only confirmed that the richest and most powerful always find a way to protect their wealth. this practice hurts national budgets and deprives them of money that could be used to improve the quality of life for all. those who avoid paying taxes are as guilty as those who allow them to be, namely, the political and taxing institutions. it's hard enough to hide a trace of money these days, and it makes it all the more suspicious that it's a mix of politics and tax evasion. if we really want to show that it's not, let's finally move and stop withdrawing and hiding money in tax havens, and if we're not ready then we wait for another financial leak and we'll just talk about it again.
mr president, the consumer protection system in the single market is extremely important for european economies because it builds trust which always results in higher consumption and multiple positive effects on the economy. better cooperation between national authorities on this issue is key to the good functioning of the single market, whose heterogeneity in many aspects is welcome but should not be an enabling factor for consumer fraud. the regulation leaves sufficient scope for member states to choose the system of implementation they consider appropriate and to decide on the allocation of powers among national authorities. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide for any obligation on the part of the state to pay compensation to undertakings for the provision of services in the public interest. this is a good way. we need to have common standards of consumer protection and member states should be able to choose how they implement them. of course, in compliance with this regulation.
mr president, when it comes to more effective supervision, investigation and prosecution of offences committed by dishonest traders in the internal market or in the common european area, it is clear that every day we need to monitor more effectively and seek better solutions to put an end to dishonesty. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. but i want to point out here that as much as a third of the food we find on the shelves of the newest members of the european union is of poorer quality than in the west. investigations have confirmed that the eastern market is being defrauded by the same packaging that is lacking in quality products. from fruit drinks and toothpaste to detergents, eastern versions of the brand sold across europe have proven to be of lower quality than those sold in the west, and that needs to stop. there can be no second-class consumer country in the european union.
mr. president, in the last two years there has been a strengthening of sovereignist political options and movements in the western world. i look at this process with approval, but unfortunately it also shows some side effects, such as negative attitudes towards free international trade and open economic cooperation between countries. it's hard to create new wealth and ensure steady growth. the multilateral trading framework, however unpopular it may be today on both the left and the right, must exist in order to have bilateral talks and to negotiate fair agreements. the resolution correctly recognises the need for a better framework for digital trade and easier investment. i agree that in this respect the wto rules must be improved to fully follow the spirit of the times in which we live.
mr president, in the run-up to the eastern partnership summit, it is good that a compromise has been reached on this report between the two rapporteurs, thus avoiding potentially damaging political problems in tomorrow's vote. the european parliament should have as uniform and clear a position on this issue as possible. the summit is important, but its true value will be measured by tangible results that must be felt by the citizens of the partner countries. the eastern partnership, there is no doubt, needs a new energy and a renewed european vision. the key is to respect the principle of 'more for more'. i am pleased that the report confirms the existing position of the european parliament that any european country can apply for membership of the european union, provided that it meets the copenhagen criteria and respects the principles of democracy, the rule of law, fundamental freedoms, human and minority rights. the european union is a community of values, its borders cannot be determined solely by geography. the association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine are important, but they must not represent the final stage in those countries' relations with the european union.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteurs on this report, which they have managed to compile just before the eastern partnership meeting. i agree, it is not easy to win the battle between communism and democracy, but the eastern partnership is a success story and i am glad that all six countries show european aspirations and it is necessary, of course, that the citizens of those countries also notice this. the committee's approach is good and the principle we have applied is 'more for more and less for less', which gives each of these countries the chance to express their individual wishes and approach european integration individually. anyway, the geopolitical situation of these countries is very delicate, the democratic standards are very fragile, and from here, today, my message to russia is to allow them to develop in peace, to nurture democratic standards, to have less russian propaganda there, and to have these six countries, and i'm thinking particularly of these four countries: ukraine, moldova, georgia, but also armenia, of course, and azerbaijan in part, showing aspirations, but also inviting belarus to engage in democratic processes. in any event, this resolution was welcomed ahead of the eastern partnership meeting next week in brussels.
madam president, the union and the member states support and protect individual domestic industries in various ways. such practices improve our global competitiveness in the short term, but have no positive effects in the long term. the desire to protect our own was also seen in the ttip negotiations, from which some industries were excluded from the start. it should not surprise us, then, that others are reaching out for similar solutions to improve their trade. but there are differences. although europe too often chooses protectionism over free markets, i agree that we must protect ourselves from non-market economies in which political decrees lower the price of raw materials or labour. the quality of this proposal is that it does not give the commission a mandate to randomly select those who will make it more difficult to export to the union, but there must be concrete reasons for its action in the form of large price distortions.
mr president, the aim of the action plan for nature, people and the economy is to rapidly improve the practical implementation of the nature directive. it is stated very ambitiously that this plan will lay a solid foundation for reconciling and connecting the needs of nature, people and economies. the content of the action plan sets out four priorities which clearly demonstrate the need to increase budgetary money for the natura 2000 network. the table of measures proposed should be more specific, not specifying what specific measures will be taken or how much each of these measures will cost, nor who, when and where these measures should be taken. such serious documents should not be used to make allegations that seem to be insufficiently substantiated, such as that the estimated annual benefit of the network is between eur 200 and 300 billion, nor should they be used in the debate in the same way as, for example, highlighting the problem of illegal killing of birds, without indicating in the first case who made the estimate and on what basis and how it varies at an annual level of eur 100 billion, and in the second case, where illegal killing of birds has occurred and what measures have already been taken. since god created the world, humans, nature and animal species have been in constant interaction for the benefit of man and so it should remain in the future, of course with a much more responsible and balanced attitude of man towards animal species and nature in general. therefore, documents such as this action plan must be more concrete and realistic, with clear measures and a financial plan for each of the measures. where i come from, a lot of money is spent on protecting wolves, and people are not able or able to recover for the damage that wolves do to them. this is simply unacceptable.
mr. president, since the victory of president dude and the law and justice party in the elections in poland, the european institutions have been trying to create the impression that this country has gone in the wrong direction, violates the fundamental human rights of its citizens and is on the verge of becoming a dictatorship. the reality is different, of course. all the polls show that poles are almost as enthusiastic about eu membership as they have been all these years, with the law and justice party enjoying the support of 45-50% of the electorate. it follows that the problem is something quite different from what we are being served. the pro-european polish people have a different vision of the union from the european establishment, and the current government enjoys strong support from poles as it seeks to put that vision into practice. if we continue to doff the poles from brussels, let no one be surprised tomorrow if poland becomes the new united kingdom. you can ignore the will of the people, and you can dismiss their ideas or their fears, only as long as they allow you to do so.
mr president, the harsh winters in the member states with a colder continental climate take their toll in human lives every year. every society has an obligation to care for its most vulnerable, and people without a roof over their heads in bad weather certainly are. i think it's wrong to make a distinction between asylum seekers and residents in this matter. the extreme cold equally threatens all people who lack shelter and heating, regardless of their origin or legal status. but when we're discussing the winter plan for asylum seekers, we also have to ask ourselves why we're taking in so many people that we can't adequately care for. how did we get to the point where we offer these people freedom, and then end up giving them sickness or death from the cold? that's a question that needs an urgent answer because winter is upon us.
mr. president, in the last century, europe was beset by two totalitarian regimes, nazi and communist. my father was a victim of both. he was deported to the nazi dachau concentration camp, and later imprisoned in the communist naked island camp. i want to be clear, though. while lenin's october revolution aimed at freedom and solidarity, hitler's nazism was rooted in racism and xenophobia. the october revolution had, besides soviet communism, where millions died, many variants in europe, but also in asia, africa and latin america. some of them are still alive today. and yugoslav, tito's communism initially went through many tragedies, produced many tragedies, but later his socialist version would still open up spaces for private property, self-managed socialism and freedom of movement, then throughout the divided europe. so unlike most people in this house, i have lived neither behind the iron curtain nor in a liberal democracy. i am absolutely certain that the best answer to both totalitarianisms is the european union.
mr. president, you can see how emotional these discussions are. you see how mr timmermans, who was lucky enough to live on the other side, understands and accepts the legacy that happened in europe, and you see how lucky we are to be able to live in a united europe today without totalitarianism. but we believe that uncovering the truth, condemning violations of basic human rights, and providing relief to victims and their families are prerequisites for a responsible confrontation with the past. our european common family has embraced the common heritage of civilisation and the values of the european union. we feel it is our responsibility to remind people today that european society is building its future in accordance with the european condemnation of all the fascist, communist and totalitarian systems which throughout europe over the last century have caused tragic suffering, persecution and the liquidation of political dissidents. and my homeland croatia, as a member of the european union, is an unquestioned part of the european circle of civilization and has no alternative to the process of confronting the past that other member states, also members of the eastern european communist bloc, have gone through. it's a necessary process in uncovering the truth. our common duty to the whole european generation, and especially to the young, is to open the way to a future without social divisions, based on mutual respect and respect for universal humanist values. we cannot allow the rise of radicalism and populism in europe to lead to a situation where the system becomes weak enough, where extremists can very suddenly enter the centre and where no one expects them.
mr. president, the main legacy of the bolshevik revolution is 100 million dead. some died of starvation, some in inhuman conditions in camps from various diseases and physical exhaustion, some from the effects of torture by the repressive apparatus, and some were simply liquidated as enemies of various communist regimes from 1917 to the present. all those who have the need to romanticize the bolshevik revolution and tell fairy tales about workers, equality and justice, first stop and remember these 100 million victims. and among them were many ordinary people, workers and dispossessed, and they were given a hard death by the communists in exchange for their hard life. unfortunately, we seem not to have learned our lesson, and today individuals who sleep with communist manuals under their pillows have great political power in some western countries, and in some even threaten to take power. we have a great responsibility to educate the new generations so that they can recognize the communist evil and resist it. and one more death in the name of a crazy ideology that has left behind 100 million corpses would be too much.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report and on the strategic importance of the subject. inequality, poverty, unemployment, youth emigration, inadequate social welfare systems, education, health, housing, pensions, are indeed issues that should be the focus of this esteemed house and of all the institutions of the european union. much more time should be devoted to addressing these crucial issues for our citizens, much more than to the exhaustive ideological confrontations. i therefore welcome the invitation to the commission to present to parliament a proposal for measures to overcome the inequalities arising from the economic crises. the proposed plan should offer concrete measures to improve working and living conditions, a positive business environment, which will stimulate investment, employment, strengthen the welfare state and social protection, taking into account the specific situations of the member states. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european strategy for the development of the black sea, which aims to contribute to the achievement of the millennium development goals and to the achievement of the millennium development goals. i support the rapporteur and the committee's proposal and propose that much more time be devoted to tackling these problems in parliament.
madam president, commissioner, since 2014 we have been discussing here in the european parliament the problems faced by european farmers because of the russian embargo. the commission also found that the russian market is not sufficiently diversified to allow the union industry to grow its market share. the russian government has used the imposed embargo as a measure to protect its farmers who have supported low-cost credit programs for novice farmers. the commission has also provided information on the export credit insurance scheme for the export of the product concerned to the union. our fruit and vegetable producers, like our milk producers, are in dire need of help from the european union, and the measures we have now are good, but they are not enough. i therefore call for the creation of a crisis fund outside the agricultural budget to help farmers in situations of market instability such as this, but also because of the increasing burden of climate change. as a result of the above circumstances, croatian producers of mandarins, apples and milk have suffered significant losses in recent years while their russian partners have found new suppliers. after the introduction of the russian embargo, the prices of fruits and vegetables in croatia have fallen significantly, and producers who have invested in production for the russian market are in big trouble because they have to repay loans and have no one to sell their products. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine, in particular through the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine. according to the information available on the implementation of the fruit and vegetable withdrawal measures, i have noticed that some member states are not using the money allocated to them and i propose that the unused funds be redirected to those who need it, such as croatia.
mr president, i support the partnership agreement on relations and cooperation between the european union and new zealand because it is our close partner when it comes to defending democratic principles and human rights. the first permanent ambassador of the european union to new zealand took office last year, opening up an autonomous mission of the european union to new zealand. new zealand is committed to participating in the european union crisis management operations: eunavfor atalanta in the horn of africa, eupol in afghanistan and eufor (althea) in bosnia and herzegovina. i stress the importance of enhanced environmental and maritime concerns for the protection of natural resources, common objectives in the fight against climate change and a partnership in the area of universal access to sustainable energy in line with the united nations initiative of the same name. i believe in the partnership between the european union and new zealand because we share the same values and interests. our partnership should be upgraded to an economic dimension by the conclusion of a free trade agreement. i hope we can overcome the differences in the recognition of geographical indications of products.
written. new zealand has been a long-standing partner of the european union and its member states, with whom it shares common values, human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, peace and security. new zealand is a member of the five eyes community, along with the usa, canada and australia, which works closely with the fourteen eyes community, in which the eu member states: france, germany, italy, the netherlands, belgium, sweden, denmark and spain also participate. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the alleged breaches of the anti-dumping duty. the european union considers new zealand the 3rd largest trading partner, which already has good cooperation with the closest partners of the european union such as the united states (agreement signed in 2010 by the wellington declaration) and australia (agreement of 1983). new zealand has also concluded bilateral free trade agreements with australia, singapore, thailand, china, hong kong, taiwan, malaysia and south korea, as well as multilateral trade agreements under the trans-pacific strategic economic partnership agreement with singapore, chile and brunei. it is very important for the european union to improve relations with new zealand because of the shared interests. the future cooperation would contribute to the development of both new zealand and the member states of the european union.
mr. president, i'm a little surprised by the logic of this question, i must say. a lot of us here lived in communist countries, and we loved to travel and we loved tourism, so it's a little bit surprising that we call china after their regime. this is tourism we're talking about, my people. i had the privilege of running istria, the most touristic region in croatia, and i know what tourism means to our citizens. so let's encourage tourism from china. i think it's a great initiative and even linked to the year of culture which is also preparing for the next year. there's one thing we need to know. the dates for chinese tourists are great for us, especially in the mediterranean, because they mostly travel in the off-season and pre-season, because that's their dates when they go on their annual holidays. and the last thing, this proves what i keep saying, we need a european union tourism agency. we must institutionalise what accounts for 10% of the european union's gross domestic product. the speaker agreed to answer the question raised by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. dear mrs. shoydrowa, thank you for your question. i think the opposite of you. i think that the european union should institutionalize tourism, as i said, we should have a tourism agency when we already have so many agencies because tourism brings in 10% of the gross domestic product of the european union. that's an awful lot of money. and yes, we need more chinese tourists. yes, we need it. i explained it to you before. maybe you didn't know that. for mediterranean tourism, chinese tourists are ideal because they come in pre-season and post-season. i said that before. when we want tourists, simply, the hotels are there, let's fill them, even with friends from china.
mr president, the european year of cultural heritage and the joint european-chinese year of tourism are two quite different events. for example, the celebration of the european-chinese year of tourism can bring significant financial, economic benefits and even geopolitical implications, which is hardly the case for the celebration of the european year of cultural heritage. these two manifestations will also be marked in different ways, so i'm actually surprised by the suggestion in the question that they merge, i don't see how these two manifestations could merge. it is clear that tourism promotion can contribute to the celebration of the european-chinese year of tourism, but i do not see how it could be the other way around. but i still support the part of the question that says we should find a way for these two manifestations to have synergy.
madam president, i would like to speak in my mother tongue. gospođo predsjednice, u ovom se trenutku osjećam dužnom obavijestiti ovaj parlament da je hrvatski sabor prekinuo zasjedanje, da je bosanskohercegovački sabor prekinuo zasjedanje jer je u tijeku presuda haškog tribunala za šest bosanskohercegovačkih hrvata koji su trebali odgovarati po zapovjednoj odgovornosti. dosuđene su im velike kazne. međutim, jedan od tih generala, general praljak, tijekom suđenja u haškoj sudnici, prije pola sata, popio je čašicu otrova i prema kazivanju novinara preminuo je u bolnici u hagu. smatram da ako su ovi parlamenti prekinuli zasjedanje, da sam ja kao hrvatska zastupnica bar dužna vas obavijestiti što se trenutno događa i kakve su odluke haškog suda u odnosu na događanja za vrijeme rata u bosni i hercegovini i činjenice koje su presuđene u odnosu na hrvatsku osobno smatram apsolutno netočnim.
mr president, the final establishment of a fully functioning energy union will ensure that all member states and their citizens have a stable supply of energy and a competitive market for products and services in the energy sector. such a large-scale project for the future requires not only a joint political effort but also major investments in energy, transport and telecommunications infrastructure. the necessary infrastructure includes the lng terminal on the croatian island of krk, the construction of which i support and which i hope will be completed as soon as possible with the help of money from european funds. the energy union must be seen primarily as a common energy market that we are committed to making accessible to all citizens and economic operators, rather than as a tightly regulated community whose global competitiveness will be limited by an excessive regulatory burden.
mr president, mr commissioner, among all the documents presented in this third report on the state of the energy union, i found one interesting: the analysis of the prospects beyond 2020. i can say that i agree with some of the points made in the conclusions there and i would like to emphasise again here that the regulatory framework which will enable citizens to be energy producers (a strange word) of the market is very important and that it is very important to come up with a common definition for this at european level. i would also say that it's very important to provide citizens with sustainable funding because after 2020, the study shows that it's rooftop pv that will be at risk because of the incentives being removed. and thirdly, we lack the skilled workforce to install these systems and i urge that we consider this in the future as one of the important points of the energy union.
mr president, i would like to thank rapporteur arnaud danéjan for his excellent report. the european union, as an important player in the global order, must recognise emerging security and defence threats in partner countries and intervene in a timely manner accordingly. in addition to supporting the available aid instruments, a credible engagement of the european union in conflict resolution is needed. arnaud knows that very well. the european union must not make the mistakes of the past and stand by and wait for someone else to solve the conflict if it wants to maintain its position as a global leader. we have an example when the united nations imposed an embargo on the import of arms and self-defence of croats in croatia and in bosnia and herzegovina, and today their self-defence in bosnia and herzegovina has been declared a joint criminal enterprise. what have we learned over the years? my condolences to the family of general praljka.
mr. president, mr. commissioner, i would like to thank rapporteur danie for the respect shown to our group and for the good cooperation. the result is a good text of clear guidelines which, with amendments, retains the original commission proposal. the instrument is welcome, its implementation can provide either short-term assistance, for example to countries where a crisis is developing, or long-term support, in particular to mitigate various risks, address global and acute threats and build capacity for sustainable social and economic development. the instrument should complement other european union capabilities, notably development capabilities. it welcomes the adoption of the proposal to ensure full transparency of the funds spent, which has caused considerable confusion from the outset. it is clear that development without security is not possible, but equally security without development is not enough. this is not about replacing development with security. instead, it's about focusing on the importance of supporting national security institutions in fragile states or states in conflict. the purpose of this instrument is to link development and security more effectively, and this report reflects this very well.
mr president, we had an interesting discussion today on the state of the energy union and as part of that document i would like to highlight the importance of the energy efficiency implementation status report in the member states. the report shows that energy efficiency measures contribute to gdp growth, employment growth, have a good macroeconomic impact on all member states, reduce fossil fuel imports, in general, all together contribute to the decarbonisation of our society. however, i would point out that the report mentioned that eight member states, including croatia, had fallen behind in the past period and had not achieved the expected targets. that is why i take this opportunity to appeal and call on the government of the republic of croatia and the minister of energy to lift the obligation to implement the installation of heat energy separators, because they are not a measure of energy efficiency, do not contribute to the quality of life of our citizens and do not reduce their bills for thermal energy, but in fact only increase energy poverty.
mr. president, people with disabilities are one of the most vulnerable groups in society. every responsible society has an obligation to work every day to better integrate them, to raise their quality of life and to combat stereotypes. i welcome the report of mrs stevens, who has done a great job. i will emphasise in particular the part of the report which highlights the close link between the poverty and social exclusion of people with disabilities and the social rights and roles of their family members, who are often left to care for a particularly vulnerable family member on their own, without any compensation or professional assistance. i am very pleased that croatia is making serious progress in this area and i believe that this and similar reports will contribute to an even better understanding of people with disabilities and to raising common standards of their protection and assistance to the members of their families who care for them.
mr. president, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs. stevens, for her continued and persistent advocacy for the rights of people with disabilities and for raising public awareness of the issues facing people with disabilities. there's a lot we could say about this report. there are many problems and challenges highlighted that are facing all of us, and i would say particularly the member states. but i think one of those, accessibility, is very important in realizing the rights of people with disabilities. accessibility of cultural content because we are witnessing that it is very difficult today for people with disabilities to go to the theatre, to the cinema, to sports competitions. also, accessibility in public transport. their mobility is very important if they are to really become equal participants in our society. and perhaps most importantly, we plan to invest a lot in the renovation of buildings over the next decade, and we must not forget that this renovation should include elevators, escalators, because in this way we will enable their inclusion not only in society but also in quality housing.
mr president, there are more than 80 million disabled people in the european union, and more than half of them are women. they urgently need an accessible environment free of prejudice. despite numerous international conventions and provisions of european law, including the existing european disability strategy, persons with disabilities still do not fully enjoy their civil and social rights. i would also like to point out that a large number of people with reduced mobility and disabilities in the european union live in multi-storey buildings without lifts. these people are prisoners of their apartments and often the only alternative is institutionalization. i call on the member states to use the european and national resources at their disposal to make life easier for these people. in conclusion, accessibility and non-discrimination for persons with disabilities should be promoted through the european union's structural funds.
mr. president, congratulations to mrs. stevens and support for this comprehensive report. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's policy on disability, in particular on the implementation of the union's policy on the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market. i recently participated in a health symposium of 100 croatian war veterans with disabilities where we have just defined accessibility issues in the field of information and communication technologies, in the field of all types of services, public institutions and other areas from the environment. the issue of the european union card for disabled persons was also assessed as very important, concluding that a pilot project involving only eight eu member states should be extended to all member states as soon as possible, as well as the european union parking cards. it is important to continue to apply the principle of mutual recognition of disabilities in all member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against the illicit trade in human beings and the illicit exploitation of natural resources, in particular through the development of a european strategy on the prevention of and fight against trafficking in human beings. changes are also needed in the member states to make the quantity of orthopaedic aids a matter for specialists rather than regulations.
mr president, the new common fisheries policy has set us new objectives and challenges, particularly in the area of the long-term sustainability of fishing activities, and this regulation will incorporate them into the management of external fishing fleets. the lack of clarity and short-sightedness of past policies and the lack of awareness on the part of some fishermen have led to a situation where fish are becoming scarcer, while competition is extremely strong. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the fishing opportunities available to union vessels. so i think that with this regulation we have a new dimension that will ensure that fishermen can continue to do this for decades to come.
mr president, unfortunately the report does not seek to improve citizens' rights in areas where the european union has competence, but seeks to enter into areas where brussels does not have competence. i must admit that i am a little tired of the constant attempts to impose on the member states, at european level, political and cultural models that their citizens reject. if we are truly 'united in diversity', then let us respect that diversity. we cannot allow the values of a few member states to be declared universal unilaterally and without any debate and then forcibly imposed on the rest. this is not just your union, this is our union. a union of christian societies that are willing to tolerate others and different, but will not retreat before this ideological colonization but will resolutely oppose it.
madam president, the eu is making great efforts to identify and sanction entities involved in money laundering and tax evasion. it's the right way because everyone has to make their financial contribution to society so that it can prosper. the lack of resources that both the commission and the competent national authorities face is highlighted in several places. let's face it, the effective fight against money laundering and tax evasion requires a lot of money. the irony is that a large part of the money spent on these operations comes from taxing small and medium-sized businesses and citizens, so those of you who, even if you wanted to, can't afford to hide money in tax havens. the big guys are hiding money, and we're putting extra burdens on the little guys to keep them from doing it. i therefore believe that, in addition to improving the methods of combating money laundering and tax evasion, we must work seriously on tax policy. in addition to prevention and punishment, a very important factor in this fight is the demotivation achieved by incentive policies that reward reinvestment, employment and growth.
mr president, today i supported the continuation of the efsi because it is important to maintain the level of investment in the european union, but especially in private, innovative and risky projects. the efsi is not sufficiently present in the less developed member states, and in particular in neighbouring candidate countries. the reason for this is not a lack of projects in these countries, as is often heard, but a lack of administrative capacity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the european investment advisory hub (eiah), the european investment bank (eib) and the european investment fund (eif). the efsi should be an upgrade, not a replacement, of other instruments from the european budget, the eib, the ebrd or other institutions, and should operate in synergy rather than mixing, interweaving and overlapping with others.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, 2017 is the year of a series of very concrete steps after many years of stagnation and mere declarations in the development of a common european security and defence policy. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the commission, and shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. however, if we want to have a real, strong european defence union by 2025, these initial steps need to be followed by the transformation of temporary measures into permanent ones, as well as a substantial increase in financial support for these measures, including the creation of a classic european union defence budget. in this respect, i particularly welcome the national implementation plans, as well as the regular strategic defence reviews which will make it possible to follow closely these efforts, these concrete steps, and the new measures we will put in place, and to ensure that by 2025 we really have a real european defence union.
madam president, i congratulate the reporters on their inspiring reports. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2007-08 is based on the principle of the european union's financial contribution to the european union's budget for the financial year 2007-08. at a meeting of 25 member ministers, joint defense cooperation was agreed, a proposal for a defense fund was presented, we adopted a report on the instrument for stability and peace. these significant gains have almost exceeded the expectations of even the most optimistic of those of us who worked on the european defence union report. i would like to stress the importance of continuing the credible enlargement process as the best guarantee of security on the union's south-eastern borders, but also within the european union. i also stress the need for clear communication of these achievements. it is not about the militarisation of the european project or a european army. it's about meeting the expectations of more than two-thirds of our citizens who put safety first. we've been duplicating actions and spending resources uncoordinated for too long. the need for a european defence union is therefore justified and initiatives that give real substance should be supported.
madam president, i would like to thank our rapporteurs, mr michael gahler and mr david mcallister, who have made an excellent report, and to you, mrs mogherini, i would like to quote you and myself once. it's true, as you once said, these are times of predictable unpredictability. we are facing some very big challenges. western democracies are facing great challenges. there are many topics, from the state of affairs and relations with russia, china, the eastern neighbourhood, then relations in latin america itself (we talked yesterday about the sakharov prize related to venezuela), then north korea, crimea, ukraine... we must find answers to all that is happening at the moment, and that is why i really support these latest initiatives, initiatives that have been going on for several years, but i do return to the state of the union speech delivered by mr juncker in september here in this parliament in which he announced the completion of the european defence union. i think that together with the european defence fund and together with this pesco initiative, we will certainly be able to complete the european defence union by 2025. what i am particularly pleased about is that the lisbon treaty is in force, that it has made this possible for us, and also that this initiative is taking place at the time of the 60th anniversary of the rome treaties and is, in a way, a complete package. i also want to say that we have to respond to the concerns of our citizens. their main concern is security, as shown by the eurostat survey, and we need to respond with initiatives like this. that's why i support this initiative.
madam president, i congratulate my colleagues mcallister and gahler on their well-prepared reports, which stress the importance of strengthening the common external, security and defence components of the european union. the developments and tensions in our neighbourhood and the current security threats stemming from terrorist threats, as well as the migration crises that are raising tensions in the member states, also call for effective responses by our citizens. it is high time to improve the joint coordinated capacities of the member states of our union. the european union must play a more active role in stopping potential open conflicts at its borders that could subsequently trigger new waves of refugees, as well as future instability. if it wants to strengthen its global role, eu diplomacy must show its strength in its nearest neighbour, bosnia and herzegovina, where even after 22 years we have no solution to break out of the frankenstein constitutional structure that froze war and brought imperfect peace, in which three peoples have different views of the past and the future is still waiting.
madam president, the security of the european union is a basic prerequisite for development in all areas of european society. congratulations to mr. mcallister, mr. gahler and mr. danegan, who have worked very long, hard and with great quality on this file. congratulations to mrs mogherini for wisely leading the process of improving defence and security policy. the launch of permanent structural cooperation is indeed an important step forward. it is important to pay particular attention to the western balkans region and to ensure that these countries pursue a common security and defence policy already now. it is also important that hard and soft power go hand in hand, as the high commissioner says, because we have been stronger in soft power so far. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu strategy for the middle east and north africa, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu strategy for the middle east and north africa.
mr. president, although the intent of the iran nuclear deal was good in terms of stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and achieving peace, that deal has so far failed to deliver the desired results. this is a deal with an undemocratic regime, a regime that has more than doubled the number of executions in recent years and reached the highest level in 25 years. human rights violations, violations of women's rights, as well as minority rights, were left out of the nuclear deal and are still on the back burner today, as the iranian authorities enact even stricter laws against women's rights, and iran remains the leading executor of juvenile offenders. according to the state department's annual report, iran remains the world's leading financier of terrorist organizations and their activities and acts as a destabilizing factor in the middle east. iran has made almost no progress, and the parties to the agreement are keeping it quiet for fear that iran will not activate a nuclear program, which we can hardly call a partnership.
mr. president, achieving peace in the middle east is a very high priority, and neither the european union nor the united states have contributed to its achievement by our activities thus far. achieving peace in the middle east does not depend on the status of jerusalem, but on the deradicalization of its societies and the establishment of democracy and respect for human rights. we must note that a number of states that today oppose the recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel are in fact opposed to the existence of the state of israel as a jewish state. this is given an additional dimension in light of the recent terrorist attacks on the jewish community in jerusalem, as well as in sweden where there was an anti-semitic protest and a synagogue bombing. these are real problems which we must take seriously because for too long the european union has been indifferent to the situation in the middle east and to the radicalisation taking place on its soil. i believe that president trump, in choosing a proactive american policy in the middle east, has considered all aspects of his decision and has, in cooperation with saudi arabia and other sunni states, reached a certain level of agreement recognizing jerusalem as the capital of israel. such a decision should not be seen as contrary to the position of the european union and the two-state solution for two peoples. in fact, i hope that this will encourage all parties to act more quickly and effectively and that jerusalem will continue to be and remain above all a holy city for christians, jews and muslims.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you very much for asking. all these debates that we have witnessed in the last few days that have followed in reaction to the recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel i think are hasty, that they prejudice possible future situations, and some of them, i did not speak about european but i spoke in principle about countries that react very violently, quite surely at the root of their reaction they have an anti-semitic attitude and background.
madam president, according to a report by amnesty international, libya is full of atrocities. however, this cruelty is particularly directed at religious minorities, especially christian migrants and refugees who are subjected to abduction, torture, theft and physical attacks by daesh, criminal gangs and human traffickers, as well as state officials. the whole world witnessed this intolerance when a religious-motivated mass murder, motivated by hatred of christians, was committed on the road to the italian coast. even in moments of mortal danger shared equally by all on these rubber boards in the middle of the mediterranean, hatred and intolerance prevailed and resulted in the deaths of dozens of innocent people who prayed for the help and salvation of all present to the "hidden god". killing christians on the way to a christian europe is more than symbolic. knowing that billions of euros are constantly pouring into libya, the question is, for what purpose? what groups? with what consequences? europe should be more careful and more careful about which groups it financially supports.
written. today we are witnessing an increasing violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms around the world, often affecting the most vulnerable groups such as ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities, persons with disabilities, lgbti people, women, children, asylum seekers and migrants. the european union is based on a strong commitment to promoting and protecting human rights, democracy and the rule of law worldwide, and this report is a valuable instrument to provide a comprehensive overview of the eu's priorities, efforts and challenges in combating violations in third countries and to help identify further effective ways to address them. over the years, the union has adopted a number of important documents promoting and protecting human rights, and a range of diplomatic and cooperative tools to support the advancement of human rights around the world. the treaty of lisbon, the role of the council and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, the strategic framework for human rights 2012-2021 and the human rights guidelines are important instruments by which the union promotes and protects human rights and fundamental freedoms. the eu should continue to actively support democratic human rights institutions and civil society in their promotion of democracy and should continue to actively combat all forms of violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law within and beyond its borders.
on behalf of the ppe club. madam president, i would like to thank mr. alyn smith for his cooperation and mutual support. as this is our recommendation to the commission, the council and the high commissioner, i would like to stress once again that we have highlighted in our report hong kong as a major trading partner of the european union. of course, we strongly support the principle of one country, two systems, and the high degree of autonomy that hong kong has over china, which stemmed from the sino-british declaration twenty years ago. i also stress that we as european institutions need to provide support to all our trading and political partners. we know that hong kong has developed into a society where there is rule of law, freedom and high standards of safety, health and autonomy. with this report and this recommendation, we wanted to support the prosperity and rights of hong kong citizens to provide a model for democratic and political reform in china, with the aim of liberalisation and chinese society. respect for hong kong's autonomy is crucial for its further development and good relations with china and the european union should provide support in this regard. i would also stress the reform of universal suffrage so that future elections are fully democratic, fair, transparent, but that the bilateral dialogue with the european union in the various policy areas is continued, as we have confirmed by a large majority in the foreign affairs committee and i hope we will do so again tomorrow in the vote in parliament.
on behalf of the s&d club. madam president, i thank the rapporteur for her really good cooperation. this report is an important step in our further cooperation with hong kong. the one-state, two-system approach is the foundation of our relationship. twenty years have passed, thirty years are ahead of us. the european union has a close relationship with hong kong as an important trading partner, but our relationship needs to be upgraded, for example through better cooperation in education and research programmes. as for the situation in hong kong, beijing's intervention in its regulation is notable. the right of journalists to write freely is being restricted. we also witnessed the protest movements in hong kong. some are calling for independence, however, the official policy of the european union is the one-china, two-systems policy, which determines our cooperation. i also point to the problem of tax evasion and tax fraud. i support the call on the hong kong government to take more effective action against companies that facilitate tax evasion and tax fraud through their branches in the city. i hope that the majority of my colleagues will support this appeal in tomorrow's vote.
madam president, brexit will dominate this week's meeting, whether enough progress has been made to move to phase two. the joint statement was finally agreed last week, the stakes have risen, but so has the cost of divorce. i hope for faster progress in the second phase in which we will have to define the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. as a croatian mep, i particularly welcome the provision that croatian citizens will be treated equally with other citizens of the union as they are still subject to a temporary restriction on access to the labour market. i also support the historically important strengthening of joint defence cooperation, which has been agreed by as many as 25 members. it is good that president tusk has invited all the member states to the euro-area summit, given the importance of the agenda. but these are not the only issues of importance for the future of the european union. i am glad that social issues, culture and education have also found their place on the agenda.
mr president, a series of current events and security challenges, the refugee and migration crisis faced by the republic of croatia at the end of 2015, when more than half a million refugees passed through the country, have made border security one of the main priorities of the government of the republic of croatia. much has been accomplished since that time. in preparing for full membership of the schengen area, croatia has used almost all the resources of the schengen instrument: it has acquired ships, helicopters for border surveillance, built new and renovated existing border police stations, and thus contributed to the efforts to fully apply the schengen acquis. i believe that special attention should be paid to strengthening the external borders of the european union, which are also our national borders, especially if we take into account that croatia has the longest external border with the european union. all of the above points to the need for the republic of croatia to be included in the schengen area as soon as possible. i hope that croatia will meet the technical criteria as soon as possible and i expect that in 2019 it will be a full member of schengen.
mr president, the high migratory pressures and the terrorist threat have left a mark on schengen that is not even foreseen for the circumstances currently prevailing in europe and its immediate neighbourhood. the proven weaknesses, however, are not a reason to reject schengen, but a real incentive to promote it. what the schengen area has been since its first day - an area of trust, security and peace - we need more in europe today than at any time in the last twenty years. but the whole concept is pretty meaningless if it doesn't include all the countries with external borders. of course, there are very objective criteria that they have to meet, but now that that goal is within our grasp, we should push croatia, bulgaria and romania to join schengen as soon as possible. i therefore call on all those involved in the decision-making process to speed up the accession of these three countries to the schengen area.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank my s&d colleagues for this very topical issue they have raised. as security threats increase, so does the need to create a single european security area, i.e. to include all eu countries in the schengen area. the disruption of the schengen area not only makes external border control and security more difficult, but also communication, the free movement of people, goods, capital and services, and thus weakens the economic strength of the european union, and in particular creates inequalities between member states and between citizens of the european union. i therefore welcome the announced entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area, as well as my country croatia as soon as they meet the conditions. i am pleased that both the minister and the commissioner have said that there are very few criteria left for croatia to fulfil in order to become a member of the schengen area and as i oppose all inequalities and unequal treatment of bulgaria and romania upon their entry into the schengen area, i expect that the decision on croatia's entry will be taken on the basis of criteria, on the basis of technical and administrative capacity, and not on the basis of political criteria, requirements and conditions.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank gianni pittelli and my group, on whose proposal we are discussing today the extension of schengen. the debate, quite rightly, involves not only bulgaria and romania but also croatia. i also thank commissioner avramopoulos for the commission's clear and encouraging positions. as many as one billion two hundred and fifty million journeys are recorded annually in the schengen area. the economic, political and integration effects of this great achievement of the european union need not be overstated. the rules for accession are clear it is a comprehensive list of technical criteria that a country must meet before joining. however, in the end, the crucial political agreement of all eu member states is needed. it is important to continue the implementation of the schengen acquis. this increases the level of trust between the schengen area members. the commission should also have confidence in those member states which have been working hard for a long time to meet all the criteria. i would point out that since croatia joined the schengen information system, in just four months, it has carried out 75 million checks and identified over 4000 violations. proof that the preparations already made are yielding results. in addition, croatia has the longest external land border of any member of the european union. we want to contribute to the security of our part of the external borders of the european union. we want the internal borders of the european union without the barbed wire that separates us from our neighbours today. it's up to croatia to meet all the criteria for schengen accession, which we expect by the end of next year. it is then up to the council to consider everything that has been done. the credibility of the european union will be clearly confirmed on this issue.
written. accession to the schengen area is one of the strategic priorities of the republic of croatia, which is approached with great seriousness and commitment, as the croatian external border is the longest external border of the eu. the european migration crisis and the problem of radicalisation and wahhabi settlements growing across the border in bih make the issue of enlargement and the need for croatia to join the schengen area urgent and necessary. the settlements serve as recruitment and training centres for radicalised members who are a direct threat to european security and therefore enhanced control and mutual cooperation and support with other schengen members is an important element of the security of the eu's external border with bih, which will also result in adequate sanctions and the prevention of illegal crossings of the external border. the republic of croatia aims to achieve technical readiness during 2018 so that the council can take a political decision on croatia's accession to the schengen area at the latest by the beginning of 2019, and in any event before the end of the current european commission's mandate. this would be a significant decision and send a positive message in favour of a united and strong europe, as only by working together can european citizens be adequately protected. i hereby express my support for the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area and i believe that a europe without borders is the only way to a united and secure europe.
written. accession to the schengen area is a strategic priority for croatia. until we achieve this, we cannot talk about the equality of all eu members. the procedure for evaluating the application of the schengen acquis in croatia has been applied since july 2014. we submitted a declaration of readiness for evaluation to the european commission and provided answers to 384 questions and translations of all relevant legal acts in august 2015. the evaluations have so far been carried out in 6 areas (data protection, common visa policy, external border management, return and readmission, police cooperation and firearms regulations). for all the deficiencies identified and recommendations for corrective measures, croatia submitted action plans to address the deficiencies and most of the recommendations were met. under the schengen instrument, croatia had at its disposal eur 120 million, of which eur 116,7 million or 97,33% was spent. the aim is to achieve technical readiness during 2018, so that the council can take a political decision on croatia's accession to the schengen area no later than the beginning of 2019. in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we also expect your support, the support of the european parliament, for this realistic plan.
mr president, europe's readiness to respond to natural disasters has always been a necessity and can be seen as complementary to the common security and defence policy. fires, floods, earthquakes and other disasters that cause loss of life and property require of us concrete actions to help citizens, concrete plans and forces to be used in such cases. the sympathy and solidarity that is most often expressed by the institutions, including this parliament, is good and desirable, but we need concrete action and concrete help for people. help and action that will make europe stronger than all the declarations, summits and statements of sympathy. the establishment of a resceu civil protection force at european level is therefore an encouraging message and a proposal that simply must be supported. i believe we are capable of making that proposal, providing good equipment, making a good plan for the use of force and, i sincerely hope, simple procedures for activating force. operational forces, if well organised, will be essential to enhance the capacity to respond to crises at european level or as a complement to national forces. of course, as in all other situations, the question of the justification of the investment will arise, and if we just analyse the damage from the fires last summer in the member states of the european union, we will see that the investment in civil protection is both necessary and justified.
on behalf of the ppe club. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission and the council for their maximum commitment to the fight against all totalitarian systems and tendencies. i am also grateful that this item has been brought up, that we can also speak about this in the european parliament, but unlike our colleagues from western europe, we in croatia still have fresh memories of a totalitarian regime that was neither fascist nor nazi, but that dealt with dissidents, individuals and groups that it considered a threat to itself. recent world history speaks of millions of deaths directly or indirectly linked to communist regimes and their symbols are equally unacceptable in 21st century europe as fascist and nazi. so i regret that in today's agenda item title, you, the proposers, did not include communism. of course i object to all totalitarian symbols and slogans. let me try to illustrate the situation. there are different interpretations of the past in the croatian public space, and the cultivation of a culture of remembrance of human rights violations and resistance to undemocratic regimes is not systematic and comprehensive. the current administrative and judicial practice regarding the display of symbols is not uniform. therefore, the government led by andrej plenkovic established the council for confronting the past, whose task is to make recommendations to the government and legally regulate the promotion of content glorifying undemocratic regimes. there is no totalitarian regime that deserves to be amnestied just because the victors write history. europe, and european croatia, should condemn with equal force all regimes that have implemented or are implementing discrimination on any basis, that are responsible for political persecution, individual or mass murder and repression of fundamental rights and freedoms. in any event, i welcome the fact that we are discussing this and i am also glad that the commission representative, mr avramopoulos, and the council representative have today expressed the commission's position against all forms of totalitarianism.
on behalf of the alde club. mr president, i found the impetus for this item on the agenda of our parliament in the sad but also dangerous fact that today, more than in previous decades, people who glorify nazism, fascism and their derivatives in various countries are gathering in the streets of european cities. we have seen recently what has been happening in warsaw, madrid, rome, sofia, zagreb, belgrade, and sadly in many other cities, large and small. there's too much hate manifesting around us for us to keep quiet. nazism originated in germany, but it was germany first and best of all that decided to punish all those who glorified nazism or used its symbols or slogans. italy did the same with fascism. unfortunately, there are still countries and authorities in the european union which are following the symbols and slogans of nazism, fascism or ustasha and chetnikism without serious sanctions and firm reactions. the european union was founded with the desire that war in europe never happen again. the evil of nazism that originated on european soil and spread to many other countries has been defeated, but it is obviously not eradicated. that's why we need to act. right here. that is why not only the member states, but also the european union itself, this parliament, this commission, must propose concrete legislative solutions at european level. i ask the commission and all of us here in this parliament to adopt a special resolution and other necessary acts for this parliamentary session, which will severely punish all those who glorify and use the symbols and slogans of the defeated criminal regimes.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. dear colleague, why did you mention that a monument to the independent state of croatia was erected in croatia when it is a question of erecting a monument to a regular unit of the croatian army from the homeland war, which has nothing to do with the nazi and fascist regime?
mr. president, nazi and fascist symbols must not be welcome in public spaces and we must do everything in our power to make citizens fully aware of the horror of this ideology and renounce its legacy. we must do the same with the communist legacy which, unfortunately, is often celebrated and propagated in this house. but in order to successfully educate citizens about the benefits of democracy, we must believe in it ourselves. the european union has shown over and over again in the last 20 years that it only recognizes democratic processes when it likes the outcome. trying to change something at european level that has not passed through national parliaments is also a sham of democracy. despite noble intentions, it's dangerous to send a message to citizens that it's okay to bypass procedures and impose your will without democratic legitimacy. it is, believe it or not, the first step towards a new totalitarianism. and, mr. deputy, under fascism and nazism 17 million people were killed, under communism 90 million. that you didn't include communism in this discussion is terrifying to me.
the question he raised by raising his blue card. mr. becker, thank you for accepting my blue card. i listened carefully to what you said. do you agree with me that, apart from the member states and the european union, the european commission, this parliament must enact its own acts, its own legislative regulations when it comes to banning nazi and fascist symbols and slogans? so not just the member states, but us at the european level? do you agree with me on that?
mr. president, the debate about banning nazi and fascist symbols and slogans throughout the european union seems a little out of place to me today. the regime has been militarily defeated and condemned in numerous trials, declarations and laws at the national level. with the collapse of nazism and fascism, only half of europe, unfortunately, experienced freedom. the other half remained in power under the communist system and this other half did not gain its freedom until 45 years later. pressed by many and important european issues such as better education and employment for young people, stable economic growth, addressing the social issues of european citizens, the problems of migrants and many others, to name but a few, we are discussing today the banning of the symbol. it does look like a reverse-direction drive to me. it's like we're encouraging people to do things out of revolt that they wouldn't normally do. this debate is counterproductive because prohibition and repression have never brought solutions to anyone. quite the opposite. they have caused rebellion and revolt among young people who consider such debates to be the lowest priority in today's democratic europe. i wonder who needs that?
mr. president, children are the future of any society and we have a great responsibility to provide them with the safest and most carefree environment possible. we live in a time where it's not so easy because technology has advanced so much that it's become accessible to everyone, even the youngest children, and it's easier for predators to access their victims now than ever before. that is why good policies and awareness-raising campaigns are so important. the rapporteur recognises this and recommends a number of good measures to protect children and adolescents. but beyond raising awareness in a way that both children and parents are educated on how to use the internet without too much exposure to potential predators, i think prevention has to go in the direction of publicly registering convicted pedophiles, so that parents can see at any moment who is a threat to their children. as families live in the dark not knowing if there are convicted child sex offenders around them, it's going to be much harder to protect them.
