mr. president, in many ways, a new era begins today. i would like to congratulate president tajani on his election. it is deeply moving that on this day, a day of celebration for him, his heart is in his homeland, italy, and he feels with those who suffered from today's earthquake. yesterday's presidential election had another clear winner in the person of our colleague, helga stevens, who was also a candidate and who, in her impassioned speech, used a slogan which i would like to bring to the attention of the maltese presidency, suggesting that they should have something similar as their slogan. mrs. stevens said that i may have been born deaf, but i have a very good ability to hear people's voices. i ask you to take on the mission for the next six months to teach european politicians to finally hear the voice of the european people. for example, in areas like immigration. hear the real stories of real people in europe, the so-called indigenous people, whose lives have been completely upended by mass immigration, especially women, whose lives have been shaped by a well-founded fear of crime. listen to these stories and make them part of the shaping or forming of your immigration policy. and let us also hear the voices of the so-called new member states, some of whom you are, for example, hungarian people are tired of the fact that we have been in the european union for more than ten years and that there are still four or five times the income differences between, say, hungary and austria. please address this in a social inclusion way. finally, accept the former socialist countries as equal members of the european union, and have the hungarian people equal in dignity with western people, and have similar income conditions, similar living standards.
mr president, as we have heard here on several occasions today, the biggest challenge for the maltese presidency will be to deal with the issue of migration and to strengthen internal security. of course, we must also emphasize, as has been said here many times today, that it would be good if he did not cast a shadow on the presidency, and that it would be appropriate to deal with the panama affair and the corruption cases that have arisen in connection with it, and to settle the matter as soon as possible. in the context of priorities, it is welcome that the presidency has set as its objective the stabilisation of our neighbourhood, in particular with regard to libya, and that it intends to tackle the root causes of migration and to eradicate human trafficking. at the same time, the objective must be to regain full control of the external borders. we must not allow another uncontrolled influx of people into europe. it is necessary to clarify that there is a legal order for entry into europe and to distinguish strictly between genuine protection-seekers and economic migrants. in parallel with the full protection of the external borders, safe zones outside the eu should be established. it should be possible for those points to process asylum applications outside the union.
in writing. i have said on several occasions in the past that the eu needs a more effective enlargement policy if it is to maintain its influence in the candidate countries and the trust of the european citizens living there. we cannot allow euroscepticism to divert the candidate countries from the path they have chosen, and the responsibility lies with national governments as well as the eu institutions. the government of hungary, in cooperation with the other visegrad countries, consistently supports the integration of the western balkans. good political and economic cooperation has been established with the countries of the region and hungary is ready to share with them the experience gained in the course of integration processes. i would like to thank the slovak presidency for making enlargement in the western balkans a priority and for working actively on it. in this light, it is legitimate to expect that the maltese presidency will look to them as a good example and that strengthening accession negotiations and opening further negotiating chapters will be high on their political agenda. the maltese presidency spokesman expressed confidence that they were committed to enlargement and would continue the negotiating process with serbia where the slovak presidency had left off.
in writing. the maltese presidency takes over the rotating presidency with honourable ambition at a time of extraordinary challenges for the future of the union as a whole. however, while agreeing with the priority package, it should be noted that at the end of the six-month period the assessment of the maltese presidency, its effectiveness, will be determined by the success of the process of creating unity among the member states and, on this basis, achieving concrete, legally binding eu action in dealing with the refugee crisis. i believe that this is also essential to take concrete measures to relocate refugees already in europe, to take urgent decisions to modernise (and save) the schengen system, and to promote a renewed eu migration policy that is much more compatible with efficiency and humanity than ever before. the council is also highly expected to do so because the member states most responsible for the inhumane treatment of refugees and the undermining of eu migration policy, and in particular the orbán government, are keen to blame brussels and the commission for the migration crisis, while seeking support from other member states. the maltese presidency will also be crucial in ensuring that a substantial number of member states, under the auspices of the presidency, act in a united and decisive manner against member states whose migration policies are contrary to the union's principles and interests.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, migration remains one of the most important problems in europe, in the european union. i am therefore very pleased to note that the council attaches great importance to the establishment of the european asylum agency and to the provision of the necessary financial resources. i am convinced that the other pillar of the common european asylum system, besides the border agency, should be the asylum agency. its main task is to support the offices and institutions of countries subject to significant migratory pressure and to provide humanitarian assistance and information to refugees. i think that mutual solidarity is the basis of everything, and those member states which are not willing to show solidarity with one another must certainly expect sanctions. i believe that the next step in the establishment of the asylum agency should be the start of the trilogue, and i, as rapporteur for the report, would like to assure both the commission and the council that we are ready to start constructive negotiations as soon as possible.
madam president, if we compare and review the conclusions of the european summits in october and december, there has been no progress in the main areas. on the issue of migration, both documents promise that the european council will decide how to apply the principle of solidarity in the future. we know that this means a mandatory admission quota, which is rejected by many countries in europe. nevertheless, it does state that existing resettlement programs must be accelerated. jean-claude juncker said here today that we must distinguish between terrorists and migrants. of course, we should, especially if we can, but we've heard that real political refugees should be distinguished from migrants. so, you're saying that's changed now? now the terrorist is the bad immigrant, all the rest are obliged to take? and we need safe routes for this, and we don't care about the safety of the population in western european cities?
in writing. the european council meeting of 15 december 2016 brought closer positions on the protection of the union's external borders, but further efforts are needed to coordinate migration policies. proper control of external borders is essential to reduce the pressure of immigration and to guarantee the security of citizens. the council paid particular attention to security, since the primary responsibility of european governments is to safeguard the security of their citizens. the uncontrolled flow of migrants into europe is unacceptable and unsustainable, and it is a threat to our security and to the democratic rule of law. the causes of illegal immigration must be addressed in the countries of origin, not just the consequences in the countries of destination in europe. the council reiterated its call for the acceleration of the relocation of immigrants, the mandatory resettlement quota. improving the living conditions of immigrants in their countries of origin is extremely important, but it is unacceptable to import the problem into europe and to hold all eu countries responsible for the irresponsible behaviour of some member states last year.
in writing. the british have decided to leave the european union. we respect the decision of the british people. but the whole union cannot be allowed to live in uncertainty because of the island. the british must exit the world's largest political and economic alliance quickly and painlessly. in the process of withdrawal, we must act firmly for the interests of the approximately 300 000 hungarians living in europe and on the island. we in the european parliament are fighting the battle: no hungarian citizen should be discriminated against in the uk. if the british want to access the common market in any form, they must accept the free movement of labour. i don't know of any compromise. i can only hope that the hungarian government will also consider the interests of hungarian workers to be paramount. my position is clear. the agreement governing the uk's withdrawal must be subject to the european parliament's opinion. i will never support an agreement that puts english hungarians in an impossible position in london or elsewhere in the uk.
in writing. – europe has a responsibility to help those qualifying for international protection or in need of humanitarian assistance. however, assistance and protection should primarily be granted by the eu in the crisis countries themselves and in their neighbouring areas. there is for example a great need to improve the living conditions of refugee camps in turkey, lebanon, jordan and northern iraq, which offer safe haven to millions of real refugees. i agree with the european people’s party’s position – set out in its political assembly’s resolution of 15 november 2016 entitled ‘protecting lives and controlling migration to europe’ – that there is a need to establish asylum and migration centres in third countries and to create safe zones in africa in which support, assistance and protection could be provided. the possibility to process asylum claims outside the eu should also be an available option. the existence of these facilities outside europe would prevent migrants from embarking on the dangerous journey to europe and thus from being exposed to severe weather conditions in european camps.
on behalf of the verts/ale group mr president, thank you for your time. madam commissioner, madam rapporteur, fellow members of parliament, allow me to address you in my native language, hungarian. i do so because, although we are very few in this chamber, we should probably have a real debate on one of the most important reports of the session. of course, the debates don't always take place in this room, most of the debates have already taken place in the preparation. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for the painstaking work that she has done to enable this report to be produced, since it was not entirely clear at the outset whether such a report could be adopted in this parliament. so one of the great things about this report is that it exists, it has a lot of specific recommendations that we support individually, but i don't want to talk about that now. i would like to tell you that the report is about rights, just as the commission's proposal is about rights. not just pious principles that we either enforce or we don't, but enforceable rights. unless social rights are such in europe, the disintegration will inevitably continue. some of my colleagues in the house are fond of talking about subsidiarity, but the fact is that the principle of subsidiarity does not mean the lowest level, but the lowest effective level. look around, fellow representatives, in the nation states, at how effective the protection of social rights is, and then decide what is the effective level at which to address it. there are also political groups which, during the negotiations and the preparation of the report, opposed any reconsideration of the financial instrument, citing budgetary discipline. now, these same groups, and sometimes these same representatives, are not having any difficulty supporting ideas where the military-industrial lobby is getting their hands on european funds that are not for that purpose. ladies and gentlemen, either budgetary discipline or using european funds for what they are meant to be used for, that is the choice. if this inconsistency continues, it is this inconsistency that will tear europe apart, not the crackdown on social rights.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, mr member, what you have just said is completely incomprehensible to me, there is a clear link between the fact that where there are extensive social rights, there is economic growth and vice versa. the problem with europe is that we don't have widespread social rights, and that's why we can't grow. do you deny or confirm that?
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, it took a long time, almost three decades, for us on this continent to realize that the money spent on education is not just an expense, it is an investment. an investment, obviously an investment in people. well, we are the same with millions of other social attractions, because all the pennies, cents, euros that we spend to strengthen the european pillar of social rights, these are all items that increase the european gross product, the european gdp, although it is obvious that sometimes this is dragging the spending side, but it is dragging the spending side because everyone can spend as much on certain purposes as they want. so i would encourage the rapporteur, and i would encourage all of us, to see the promotion of social rights as a kind of european investment, a european investment. finally, i would like to confirm what the rapporteur said in his opening statement: this is not the pillar of the euro area, it is the pillar of the european union as a whole, and indeed of all the people working in europe.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today at noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. the report on social rights before the european parliament already threatens the sovereignty of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity itself. nevertheless, the document contains many elements that we support and that have already been implemented in hungary. without wishing to list all the achievements, one of the most important achievements of recent times is that 90% of young children receive free meals three times a day and that disadvantaged children receive free meals during school breaks. the minimum wage has also made significant progress over the past 25 years. in terms of institutional placement and long-term care, the report also includes the relocation of disabled people (3500-4000 persons) from large rural institutions to smaller housing units. the reduction in the current rate and the new home-building solutions and initiatives are also important, as from march this year a number of fees and charges related to public administration will be abolished. in order to benefit the poorest consumers, vat has been reduced, inter alia, on milk, eggs and poultry. the digital well-being program also includes a discounted internet package. the action plan for job protection has helped to employ an average of 900 000 workers per year, and has thus significantly increased the employment of women and young people. in the area of tax evasion and avoidance, the success of online collection has increased vat revenues by huf 1000 billion, almost one third compared to 2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on indonesia, namely the case of mr jeimo, mr iszmael alua and the governor of jakarta (2017/2506 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the central african republic (2017/2507 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation in burundi (2017/2508 ((rsp)).
thank you very much, officer. he truly deserves applause from my fellow congressmen. i have listened very carefully and i apologize for the noise my colleagues make as they come in to vote. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended)
we now turn to the voting grounds.
i shall conclude by giving the reasons for the vote.
in writing. mr. president, president trump's executive order banning refugees and citizens of certain countries, including green card holders in america, is nothing but a poison to the situation. it is a pointless and unnecessary step which does not contribute in any way to the fulfilment of the citizens' - legitimate - expectations in terms of security. and it's clear that the us president's personal business interests influenced the accuracy of the list more than security considerations. there's no other explanation for why saudi arabia, for example, was left off the list. what trump has achieved with this order is merely to further destroy already weak trust at the international level and increase tensions. and the result of escalating tensions is likely to be more conflict and more refugees - the exact opposite of the official goal. furthermore, it cannot be stressed enough that the regulation is also unacceptable in the context of the fight against terrorism: no general suspicion can be used against groups of people on the basis of their origin and/or religion. this measure is therefore not only illegal and inhumane, but simply stupid, senseless and ineffective - a textbook example of a populist political maneuver leading to a global crisis.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the energy union is much more than a framework strategy for secure, affordable and climate—friendly energy. sixty years ago, cooperation in the field of energy in europe led to the european union. today, the energy union is a unique opportunity for us europeans to strengthen and reinforce this cooperation in troubled times. for a well—functioning energy union, we clearly need a high level of investment and cooperation among the member states – and not primarily, in terms of gas and electricity, for infrastructure, but also for upscaling renewables and increasing energy efficiency efforts and exploiting the clear synergies between these aspects. the commission again confirms in its report the determination of the commission to make the european union the world number one in renewables, but the legislative proposals of the winter package do not live up to the promises; rather they put brakes on the energy transition and simply do not address key problems and market distortions. there is no real incentive to cut fossil fuel consumption. it allows subsidies to fossil fuel and also keeps the privileges of nuclear energy. loopholes in the energy efficiency directive are left unaddressed as well. according to the report, there was a very modest 0.4% growth in the share of renewables in the eu’s total energy use last year. clearly we must accelerate our efforts. the proposal still does not contain proper incentives for further deployment of renewables. instead it undermines market access for renewable energy sources. while regulated household energy prices in about half of the eu are – rightly – identified as a problem, there are no effective proposals for dealing with energy poverty, instead of those distorting measures. i also see a lack of proper support for prosumers, such as energy cooperatives, to compete fairly in the market. the problem of energy dependency is also well addressed in the report, but the importance of energy efficiency in fighting against it is underestimated. finally, one issue remains almost untouched – the poor enforcement of the existing legislation affecting the energy market. this also implies that the commission must make sure that nuclear installations are not exempted from public procurement provisions or competition law, which currently is not the case. despite the report stating that we are well on track, i believe that a lot more needs to be done in order to achieve a unified energy market and a sustainable, secure energy system. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
it's a two-card draw. - mr president, i have to go. i would like to assure the honourable member of a quick consensus that i really do think that the steps taken in the field of energy efficiency are very important, if only because they are indeed one of the best ways of combating energy poverty. but i also have a quick question, two. one is that measures and legislation taken here at the european level will probably be adopted by everyone here and then, behind their backs, the governments behind the backs of the members of parliament will whistle on the whole thing. do you see any perspective on how to get governments, member countries, to at least agree on the energy mix? and second, how do you stop governments from making up, upside down, gut-wrenching consumer prices in certain places?
that's a two-card answer. thank you for asking. he asked me about very important matters. on the one hand, the implementation and enforcement of existing energy regulation in the member states is a key issue. and in this i think that the commission is not using all the instruments at its disposal to really implement the provisions relating not only to energy efficiency but also to renewable energy sources, to competition law, to public procurement law in the energy market. the european commission has a task to perform here. the energy union plan and the winter package are quite clear on the need to introduce these price distortion provisions. however, these should be replaced by measures that effectively address energy poverty. this is a primary task for both the member states and the european commission.
in writing. i would like to thank vice president sefcovic for his hard work and persistence. i am particularly interested in the european energy union roadmap which is about to start, where he will visit each member state and hear their views. it is precisely this human and national approach that can make europe strong. the clean energy package opens a new chapter in the integration of the energy union. i think we all agree on the fundamental objectives of the energy union. make europe's energy supply affordable, make markets competitive, while putting the union on a sustainable path. however, the implementation of energy market integration already involves significant risks. these risks can also be found in the clean energy package. we must be careful not to make the same mistake of responding to every change with centralization. in my view, the strength of the european union lies in its diversity. different solutions to different opportunities are driving the continent forward and ensuring renewal. i believe that a better europe does not always mean more europe. the new challenges are not always to be met by the creation of yet another common institution, but by strengthening subsidiarity. i hope that the reform of the price market that is now under way will take account of these principles and that we will find not only a quick but also a suitable solution to the existing problems.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the commission's recently published winter energy package is the foundation for the creation of the european energy union and the first building block of hungary's energy independence. by improving energy efficiency, upgrading buildings, deploying renewable energy, we can finally cut hungary off from russian gas pipelines. if energy efficiency increases, not only will the recession bill be cheaper, but tens of thousands of quality jobs could be created in hungary. the deployment of wind and solar power, which are the cheapest forms of energy today, is important in the construction of the energy union. it's hard to understand why they had to be banned in hungary. the energy union also includes the abolition of long-term unfavourable gas contracts with third countries. for example, if we had not renewed the russian gas contract last year, the hungarians would have received their natural gas 40% cheaper today. all because we could buy gas from the world market much cheaper. the energy union would also be good for preventing irresponsible governments from harming their own citizens. the energy union is good for the hungarian people, it gives hungary cheaper and more predictable energy, it leaves more in our wallet at the end of the month. the commission must implement its ambitious plans as soon as possible, only then can we be independent of the russians, only then can we keep the accounts low.
in writing. the vast majority of migrants arriving illegally in europe via the central mediterranean route are economic migrants. the only way to prevent hundreds of thousands of people from risking their lives again by trying to cross the mediterranean to europe once the weather conditions improve is to give special attention to the external aspects of migration. the creation of safe zones outside the eu, the processing of asylum applications outside the eu or at the eu's external borders, and the establishment of migration and asylum centres in third countries are needed. we need to make further agreements to ensure that no new alternative migration routes are created, and stronger action against human traffickers is also needed. it is also important to recognise that rescue at sea cannot lead to automatic legal entry into the eu, as this encourages migrants from north africa to attempt the dangerous crossing in vessels in worse than worse condition in the hope of being rescued. this approach would also be in line with the resolution 'protecting lives and controlling migration to europe' adopted by the general assembly of the european people's party in november 2016, which contains the party family's migration policy. in addition to the central mediterranean region, the western balkan route should continue to receive due attention and support for the countries along this route. it is anticipated that the number of arrivals will increase significantly from march.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague milan zver on the preparation of this report. this year, more than 3 million students have had the opportunity to study abroad through the 30-year mobility programme. the european parliament will continue to support this great mobility programme so that as many young people as possible can participate and gain not only knowledge but also cultural experiences, experience and new skills. multilingualism is important for improving the labour market opportunities of young people, and therefore more projects are needed under the erasmus+ programme to provide opportunities for language learning and multilingual communication. the main attraction of erasmus+ is that young people gain experience in foreign universities and institutions, enriching them with skills and knowledge that will be a plus for them in the labour market or in starting a business. i think that the programme should also give priority to and support minority language learning. almost all regional and minority language communities face difficulties in ensuring the survival and development of their languages. the erasmus+ programme should support all students, regardless of whether they belong to a majority or national minority community. linguistic mobility not only means that those from a minority community learn the language of those from a majority community, but also the other way around, allowing those from a majority community to develop closer links with minority language communities and to better understand their culture.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! erasmus+, now 30 years old, builds on the foundations of european union programmes such as socrates and leonardo da vinci in the 1980s and 1990s. erasmus+ is the largest programme of its kind in european history with the largest budget. so far, more than 3 million students have had the opportunity to study abroad. i am particularly pleased that this is the first occasion on which the eu has supported sporting activities in this way, which i consider to be particularly important for health. the million-strong attendance numbers speak for themselves. studies show that young people who have studied abroad are much more likely to apply for a job later in life. this is very important in the light of the very high levels of youth unemployment in many member states. it is hoped that erasmus+ will continue to be such a success in the years to come, and that many more young people will benefit from their experience abroad, which will be of great benefit to them later on.
in writing. under the current treaty, the union's competences in the field of education and training remain limited to encouraging, encouraging and complementing cooperation between member states, where necessary, and member states have exclusive decision-making power on all matters concerning their national education and training systems. however, the disparities in quality between member states are creating increasing gaps, which the eu cannot continue to ignore. the continuous quality, effectiveness and efficiency of education and training is not only a key element in strengthening economic competitiveness and growth potential, but also one of the most important guarantees for increasing prosperity and preserving and re-establishing social cohesion. education must therefore be a high priority for the european union. the erasmus+ programme should be extended to secondary education and vocational training and the funding for this should be substantially increased.
in writing. sport is a key part of the lives of millions of eu citizens, and the right to sport and physical activity is a fundamental right. the benefits of physical activity are indisputable: it leads to a better quality of life, helps prevent disease, promotes active ageing and has a positive impact on society as a whole, because it transcends ethnic, religious and cultural differences, promotes inclusion, cohesion, integration, and fosters mutual respect and understanding between different cultures. i would like to draw your attention to two important points. first, it is essential to ensure the purity, integrity and transparency of sport in order to preserve its credibility and appeal, especially as more and more money is being spent in the sports sector, in the field of competitive sport, which has become an economic activity. corruption and the use of illicit performance-enhancing drugs are areas that need to be addressed through international efforts and cooperation. the mobility of elite athletes should also be supported in order to enable them to successfully move on at the end of their careers. competitive sports involve long hours of daily training, and the results are the result of daily struggle and sacrifice on the part of the athletes. it is important that when their sporting careers come to an end, they can find a place in other areas of the labour market. their efforts in this direction should therefore be actively supported.
mr president, georgia has successfully fulfilled the conditions set for it, demonstrating its commitment to closer relations with the union. you've done everything you can to get the visa requirement lifted. the suspension mechanism was created to prevent abuse, and it is now up to the union to deliver on its promises. the credibility of the union is at stake, and any further delay in granting visa-free travel would send the wrong geopolitical message to the region. it has been a priority for us from the very beginning, for hungary as well, for the european union to add georgia to the list of visa-free countries. i am also personally convinced that georgian citizens with biometric passports should be able to travel without visas for a long time. as well as ukrainian citizens. ukraine like georgia has earned the right to be granted visa-free travel. all union conditions were met, and no double standard is warranted.
in writing. the eastern partnership is an important element of the european union's neighbourhood policy and plays a central role in our efforts to achieve stability and democratisation in the regions bordering the eu's eastern border. the eu has also been active in the implementation of the association agreement with georgia, including the implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan, and has been active in the implementation of the visa liberalisation action plan. the possibility of visa-free travel which has previously been granted unilaterally by the georgian side to eu citizens could open up new areas of civil relations and business opportunities. of course, it cannot be overlooked that the european union is the preferred destination for those wishing to emigrate from georgia, but on the basis of the previous parliamentary debates and the presentation, i believe that the monitoring and suspension mechanism provided for in the agreement provides sufficient safeguards against possible abuses. i note that the favourable assessment from the eu's point of view also applies to the assessment of the ukrainian eu visa liberalisation negotiated virtually in parallel with the georgian case, the successful implementation of which represents an important milestone for both our partners in their commitment to european values and democratic structures.
madam president, when we discuss free trade agreements in this parliament, everyone says with pride that food safety, healthy and quality food are the great values of the european union. if we use 200,000 tons of chemical pesticides a year, we cannot achieve this quality, this health insurance. yes, there is an alternative, low-risk biological pesticides. and that these are less effective than chemical ones? yes, but you have to decide what your primary objective is. the profits of the big companies, who of course only want to use this material, or the support of small, medium and family businesses, which provide this healthy and quality food. this issue must be decided, of course, in the interests of the european population.
it's a two-card draw. i agree, mr. member, that new and new technologies should be encouraged and their introduction should be particularly encouraged. but why do you leave out the part where the rural farmers with the other traditional education, the aging farmers, how will they be able to get to know these?
mr. president, first of all, let me thank mr. neuser and my colleagues in the wenta house for their excellent work. allow me to highlight the crucial role of development cooperation in tackling today's most pressing problem - i stress - forced migration. a targeted development policy is needed that can respond to the situation and needs of the refugee country of origin on the ground. we have no illusions. as has been said, the european union's development strategy should include more programmes to this end, especially given that by 2050, half the world's population is projected to be of african descent. let's not have any illusions. we can only succeed if the european union is able to implement much larger and more comprehensive programmes than before under direct control, which is what is needed, and without that we cannot stop the next wave of migration.
madam president, in this debate today, many members have expressed concern about certain industries, particularly the cement industry. i am of the opinion that, while the arguments that have been put forward by my colleagues are true, it is also necessary to see that this industry actually has tremendous potential for reducing carbon dioxide. in this sense, i would actually like to support those efforts, and i consider these parts of the report to be of great value, which focus primarily on technological development. i am convinced that our competitiveness is not in technological closure, in the conservation of existing technologies, but in innovation, so that europe will not be left behind, nor the rest of the world.
in writing. the success of european climate policy is in the common interest of all of us. just as air pollution does not stop at borders, we cannot tackle this problem alone, we need to come together and find common solutions. but in this fight, we must be cautious at all times to ensure that we achieve a truly successful transformation while protecting the european economy and preserving european jobs. this is the spirit behind the modernisation fund concept, whereby those member states which will be most exposed to additional costs as a result of the new rules will be entitled to a share of the proceeds from the sale of allowances, which they can use to upgrade and modernise their obsolete assets. in my view, the administrative structure for the modernisation fund, as formulated by the envi committee, is opaque and dangerous. a well-prepared system of criteria can adequately enforce common expectations, and an overly complex administrative structure is unnecessary. it is also contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and creates additional tensions to entrust the evaluation of projects to non-participating parties, thereby separating decision-making from implementation. in the spirit of all this, i ask my fellow members to support our amendment to improve the transparency and efficiency of the modernisation fund.
in writing. the debate on the ets directive, which regulates emissions allowances for european industrial installations, has been raging in parliament for 18 months. the reform of the european emissions trading system will include a major element of regulating the sharing of the eu's commitments under the paris agreement, increasing the level of ambition, which can further increase the uptake of low-emission technologies and the transition to a low-carbon economy in europe. however, in addition to ensuring that environmental objectives are met, the legitimate interests of the productive sector must be taken into account throughout the negotiations, as europe may be at a competitive disadvantage by chasing energy-intensive sectors. it is also important to avoid imposing disproportionate burdens on some players in the european industrial sector while giving others undue advantages. i hope that the plenary vote will be able to steer the report in the right direction and to adopt a balanced parliamentary mandate before the trialogue which adequately reflects the above considerations. finally, i think it is important to stress that the part of the environment committee's text relating to the modernisation fund severely restricts the freedom of decision of the beneficiary countries of central and eastern europe. the draft report does not correspond to the political agreement adopted by the european council in its conclusions of october 2014, and therefore i have tabled an individual amendment proposal with my colleagues to ensure that the governance structure of the modernisation fund properly reflects the interests of the beneficiary member states.
the rapporteur. thank you very much for the floor, madam president, and also thank you for the work and cooperation of the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that this time we have succeeded in producing a comprehensive and very substantive report, which complements the european commission's material very well, and which contains a number of proposals and comments to the commission. the report confirms the role of eu competition policy as an essential tool for creating a strong and efficient internal market and as a policy that is also fundamental to economic growth, innovation, resource efficiency and the european social market economy. the future of europe is built on these elements, and ensuring a level playing field is critical to this. the multi-topic report also includes two cross-chapter items. one is the social dimension, as we considered it important to remind member states of the positive impact that strict competition rules that take social aspects into account can have on the lives of european citizens, consumers, workers and businesses. the other is the issue of tax justice. we reaffirm our commitment to tax fairness, which is essential to the integrity of the european single internal market, and we stress that all market players must pay their fair share of tax where those profits are generated. the report recognises the need to put an end to unfair tax competition by member states, as well as to aggressive tax planning, illegal tax optimisation and selective tax incentives that undermine the main sources of innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises. i am pleased that the report has included such an important part of the quest for tax justice, as it is a fundamental condition for a fair competitive environment. the text also calls for tax convergence, which would also significantly strengthen the union's economic cohesion and competitiveness. in addition to tax issues, we are also focusing on the digital single market. the report also underlines the role of smes in the digital single market and therefore welcomes the commission's investigations into the anticompetitive practices of the internet and telecommunications giants. in the context of the digital single market, i considered it important to highlight the issue of sharing economy enterprises. this business model has been in place for a number of years and offers a number of innovative products and services to eu consumers. the commission is not in a position to do so easily when many people want to blend different services into one. and we all know, but just for the sake of argument, uber is not a taxi, and airbnb is not a hotel. they are platforms, but they should be taxed in the same way as the service providers using them. the report also stresses the importance of net neutrality and confirms that, while this is a very important step, the abolition of roaming charges within the eu is not enough: calls within the eu should be regulated at the same level as local calls. this is why our report calls on the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal to regulate intra-eu calls. as regards state aid, the report stresses the increased responsibility of member states towards the commission for aid granted without prior notification. we also stress that temporary state aid in the financial sector was necessary to stabilise the global financial system but must be reduced as soon as possible or fully eliminated and controlled once the banking union is completed. i also think it is important to underline a few other points in the report. corruption in public procurement has a serious market-distorting effect on european competitiveness. in the case of energy and environmental investments, they may be particularly harmful and have a negative impact on the proper functioning of the energy union and the achievement of the union's environmental objectives. accordingly, we urge in the report that all state aid related to energy and environmental investments and all irregularities in public procurement procedures - such as the controversial paksi nuclear power plant expansion project in hungary - should be strictly monitored and thoroughly investigated. the report also addresses the importance of transport infrastructure and addresses the interests of consumers, producers, thus also giving a strong focus to the specific situation of the agri-food sector and paying close attention to enhanced cooperation between national competition authorities. i therefore believe that the text should, as far as possible, give the widest possible indication of the shortcomings in competition policy that are still emerging, both in the member states and in the union. i am convinced that, alongside the recommendations and calls, member states can make a significant contribution to economic growth, the creation of quality jobs, innovation, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and tax justice.
rapporteur. – madam president, here again i must thank wholeheartedly the commission and commissioner vestager, the shadow rapporteurs and of course those colleagues representing opinions in the various committees, for their contributions. honestly, when we prepared this report it was not a fight, rather it was a spirit of cooperation which prevailed during the negotiations which means, for me at least, that common european policies do indeed have value. but, looking at the practical nature of mankind, i think that competition is never fair. people do compete like this – look at the olympics, or even just a simple football match where the referee needs to intervene hundreds of times during the same match – but the real question is, from the institutional point of view, what we do. this is why i want to congratulate the commissioner once again. she was not discouraged but stepped on such giants as google, uber, bayer, monsanto, apple – i can give you a whole list. this courage is very much needed. on the other hand, i think that what we see now in europe is really a bit frustrating: the big companies, or the bigger ones among them, are practically not paying tax due to various arrangements, but the small ones – sometimes they may die. so this is what we still have to consider. i also very much welcome those comments related to agriculture because here price volatility simply kills. it is not just competition; it kills, it is lethal. so once again, thank you very much for this opportunity, and again my wholehearted thanks to all the colleagues, and let us continue like this.
madam president, i would like to thank dennis de jong for the outstanding work with the report. i would like to welcome the european parliament’s calls for a horizontal instrument for the protection of whistle-blowers yet again and unanimously in the committee on budgetary control and i hope the same for the plenary. i hope the report fits into also the commission’s ongoing work on assessing the possibility for action, as this is clearly a common european interest to have an overall protection for whistle-blowers. horizontal protection is the only way to ensure that all those who report wrongdoings in the interest of the public do not suffer from any sort of retaliation. i believe that it is not only a moral obligation for the eu to act in a context where citizens’ trust in the institutions is low and the perception of corruption is high. it is also indispensable to ensure that eu law is properly implemented in wide areas from the protection of the financial interests of the european union to the environmental acquis. i hope the plenary will vote for this report and the commission is going to act.
madam president, whistleblowers could indeed play a vital role in helping member states and the eu institutions. unfortunately, this is probably only a theoretical possibility, at least in hungary, where the main function of state institutions is to convert public money into private money. government corruption has shaped people's daily lives to the point that people can lose their jobs for responding positively to a post critical of the government on social media. similarly, ngos are under constant pressure, as one criticism of the orbán government has already been labelled as foreign agents. in such an environment, it is very difficult to convince people that reporting abuses is essential to protect the public good and the financial interests of the european union. what a whistleblower in hungary today can expect is the loss of his existence and the squeezing of him in the public service media.
madam president, recent events in ukraine have given rise to serious concern. while the renewed fighting in the east of the country has caused a rise in casualties and the displacement of innocent civilians, a section of the political elite is fomenting new conflicts instead of addressing real problems, and is working to discriminately restrict the rights of the country's ethnic minorities. the draft education law disadvantages the languages of national minorities, the current language law was attacked in the supreme court, and the submitted language bills would prohibit the free use of national languages in the public, private and civil spheres. the ukrainian authorities have repeatedly expressed concern at the situation in the region and the deterioration of the situation in the region. the european union needs a stable and strong ukraine, but this requires real change. to this end, the eu should also monitor developments in ukraine and the respect for fundamental human rights. in a country seeking european integration, the restriction of democratic rights is unacceptable, as it hinders the peaceful consolidation of the country.
madam president, the hungarians of transylvania feel and stand with their fellow citizens who are protesting against corruption and the romanian government that wants to legalize corruption. we were therefore shocked to learn that leading government politicians vladimir putin and viktor orbán, in their latest meeting, mentioned foreign interference and hungarian revisionism against the backdrop of hundreds of thousands of demonstrations. the appeal of almost a hundred members of the romanian academy of sciences is aimed at protecting the country's identity, sovereignty and national unity directly from the territorial autonomy of szekler-hungary. romanians and transylvanian hungarians fought together against the communist dictatorship in 1989. after 27 years, we are also standing together against the corrupt post-communist regime. we protest against the false nationalist propaganda that tries to deceive the majority of romanians with the non-existent hungarian threat. not from the hungarians and not from autonomy, but from corruption, romania must be protected!
madam president, i have already raised a couple of times here the issue of the clients of ironfx – a cyprus based foreign-exchange company that continuously swallows small investors’ deposits by simply denying their withdrawal requests. the crime has been going on for two years already and still there is no sign of any intervention, either by the cypriot authorities or by those of the european union. it is a shame, but the eu is merely deaf and silent. however, it is not only certain financial companies that swallow people’s money in europe – the hungarian government also behaves as a kind of black hole in terms of european development aid to hungary. practically all these amounts are diverted into the pockets of proxies or family members, leaving little space, if any, for transparency. no wonder then that media are asserting more frequently that orbán and his team may also be subject to russian bribery. indeed, the hungarian prime minister shamelessly acts in the interests of mr putin and against european achievements. the eu, and especially the commission, cannot be blind or silent any longer.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to imagine the following situation: you are born somewhere in your homeland, somewhere in europe, in a country. your mother and father, your grandparents, they teach you a native language. they live on the land where their parents, their grandparents, their great-grandparents, their ancestors have always lived. and overnight, it's going to be a different country, with a different language. this is what happened to the transcarpathian hungarians, who are now about 200,000, and what god forbid, as ukraine approaches the european union, it moves away from the normal human rights value system, as far as indigenous national communities are concerned. now they want to introduce a language law that will effectively ban the use of the mother tongue of indigenous national communities, of national minorities in your language. i ask you to take very strong action against this language law, because it is not compatible with the european union standards.
mr. president, we are debating the fundamental issues of the european union this morning. let me put the basic question of the basic questions to the rapporteurs, mr juncker and mr timmermans, who are here, and i ask you not to avoid answering it. the fundamental question is what kind of union is it in which people earn five or ten times as much money in one part of the union as in the other part, in the so-called socialist countries, in my country, hungary. please answer directly if you consider this a normal condition. if so, how long do you intend to keep it that way? and if they don't, and they want to change it, how will they change it and when? people are eager to know the answer to that question. as well as that, and this is my next question, please answer whether you are aware of the social catastrophe that the so-called foreign currency credit constructions have caused in hungary and other former socialist countries. what do you wish for the taxpayers, the consumers, because they would have been protected under normal circumstances by european consumer standards, but they were not, they were not protected by the european union. what do you wish to do in your defence and would mr juncker, mr timmermans and perhaps the current rapporteurs be willing to hear the representatives of the victims of currency fraud?
mr president, the central focus of this debate is, or should be: why are we integrating, why these plans to integrate further, what actually is integration for? for us in this house the answer may be self-evident, pro or contra, but for those outside i am far less sure. we assume that european integration is inherently good, on the right side of history, for those who think that history has sides – and i am not one of them. but for many millions in europe the drive to integrate is not self-evident. indeed, they have grave doubts about integration. this debate should also be addressing these citizens by offering a vision that speaks to the great majority, the doubters included. the message, this ideal message, should go back to first principles. european integration becomes legitimate when it fulfils its primary function, that of conflict resolution. anything that generates conflict weakens europe. secondly, the old principle of parity of esteem for all member states, small or large, is inadequately applied. hence the rise in member states’ protection of their national interests. the extent of euroscepticism is precisely the critique of integration that we ignore at our peril.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, you mentioned the need for joint action in a number of areas. i would like to ask you two whether you or the movement think there is a future for the social and fiscal union?
mr. president, fellow citizens, open your eyes, read history and learn from it. the new populists of europe are the political leaders who, by appealing to the people, are trying to steal the future of the european people, the future of our children, and they obviously could not win in this room today, but outside, in the streets, they have already gathered strong support in many places. because while we are here, in fine words and with really responsible plans, shaping european cooperation, which is peace, development, new jobs, social benefits, common rights and, in general, in world politics, we are trying to design a serious, competitive europe, while in my country, for example, the government in hungary is using state propaganda to try to destroy people's faith in europe. that is why we must show, and for example, why we hungarian socialists have written a paper that shows how hungarian democracy imagines the place of european hungary. i'm waiting for your... (the president cut the speaker off) (the intervener agrees to answer a question referred for a preliminary ruling (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
mr president, the report on the future of the union states that 'the breakthrough of populist parties and nationalist movements has led to a growing dissatisfaction among the population with the functioning of the [...] union'. this statement is logically incorrect, it confuses cause and effect. a growing number of europeans are realising that they cannot accept being part of an empire of 500 million people, where people's daily lives are controlled from a central location. you, the current majority, claim the right to call yourselves the party of europe. we are. we know that there is no alternative to cooperation between the nations of europe. but there is an alternative to the construction of a united states of europe. brexit has made a lot of noise about this, but you're not hearing it. it is time to face each other and build this partnership from a different direction, from new foundations.
in writing. the eu will be 60 years old in march. some member state leaders celebrate this by inciting their electorate against europe, by breaking up european unity, by pushing the russian chariot. it is because of the eu that there have been no wars for 60 years, it is because of the eu that we have seen economic growth like never before, it is because of the eu that we do not have to stand in line at the border, it is because of the eu that our children can study in the best universities in the world for free and without fees, it is because of the eu that roads are being built, that kindergartens and schools are being renewed. some national leaders do not appreciate this. they are merely passengers enjoying the benefits of europe, but they no longer want to contribute to it. it's no coincidence that every major european leader is talking about a two-speed eu and against orbán. the new two-speed eu will have associate and full members. full members enjoy all the benefits of the eu, while associate members would be second-rate countries. as we stand today, there's no question where we hungarians would end up because of orbán. if we leave europe, it will be the historic crime of the orbán government. if we turn our backs on europe, we'll be a russian-chinese sphere of influence somewhere between east and west in the no man's land. our position is clear: european unity, european wages and european development. after the government falls, we'll take hungary back to where it belongs: europe.
mr president, i would like to quote paragraph j of the report, which will come as a great surprise to everyone, which states that whistleblowers play a particularly important role in the detection and reporting of corruption and fraud, as those involved in such crimes seek to conceal them in the course of official reporting mechanisms. well, it's really quite surprising that fraudsters, corrupt officials, and individuals with economic and political power, want to hide the fact that they steal and cheat. if i read paragraph l, it says that you have to protect those who are leaking, leaking this information -- which, of course, the fraudsters don't want to leak -- if it's done in good faith. well, the problem is that those in power will often not view as a good-faith person anyone who tries to expose their ongoing criminality. so this is a ridiculous assumption, what is good faith? who judges you to be of good faith? it is natural that those who report criminals, embezzlers, swindlers, embezzlers of public funds should be protected.
mr. chairman, i would like to read perhaps one of the most uncivil phrases in the report, which is in the explanatory statement. i often feel like i'm in north korea at some party convention. the whole sound, it fits in here. he says: 'especially today, when the greatest threat to european integration comes from within the eu, we must beware of the enemy within'. beware, comrades! continued unfair tax practices in the form of eurosceptic populism, favouring big business, could lead to a further decline in public trust in the eu. so, who's responsible for this? the people who say it, right, are called populists. it is not by chance that the system on which the whole european union is based is that big companies are constantly bribing the most diverse leaders of the european union, constantly lobbying, to put it mildly , and getting them to apply the rules they want, which make it completely impossible for fair competition, especially for small and medium-sized european businesses, family businesses.
mr president, it is important that the european union is concerned with women's mental health, but the problem is that it does not reveal the causes of the deterioration of women's mental health, which is precisely due to the colonial, savage capitalist nature of the european union, and which particularly affects women citizens of the so-called new member states, former socialist countries, whose situation is not comparable, say, to that of a hungarian woman living 200 km away from her in austria. what's this about? you know, the statistics just came out that there's a tenfold difference between the richest and poorest countries in the european union. now, if you haven't noticed, the poorest countries, like my own country, hungary, are migrating in droves to the colonial countries, the western countries, and women are very often, very often forced to leave their children behind. there's an awful lot of mental pressure on them, or it's because of the foreign currency loans that the european union's consumer protection authorities have been willing to tolerate, leaving the victims of foreign currency loans without help. let's look at the causes of these mental problems instead of just writing reports dictated by the drug companies about how to treat mentally damaged men and women.
madam president, let me quote a self-indulgent, cynical putin at his budapest press conference just one day after the events. putin said, and i quote: ‘this is just another ukrainian provocation, a self-inflicted attack against their own servicemen and population, the only reason being kiev’s like lack of money, the attempt to arouse pity in the west, to squeeze out more funds from the eu’. shamefully his humble host, mr orbán, spent no words in defence of neighbouring and eu associate partner ukraine. this is in itself a plain reason to maintain our sanctions against putin’s regime. i think it is now high time to realise that without determined action by the european council and the eu as a whole, courting putin by orbán and some other european politicians is bound to undermine the unity and the credibility of the union as ukraine’s key partner.
madam president, i welcome the eu foreign affairs council meeting in early february, at which the foreign ministers expressed their concern at the renewed hostilities in eastern ukraine and the resulting grave humanitarian situation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. hungary is interested in a strong, stable and successful ukraine. to this end, however, ukraine is also rightly expected to fully comply with its european commitments and to guarantee, in accordance with its own constitution, the human and community rights, mother tongue and education of national minorities living on its territory, including transcarpathian hungarians, bulgarians and romanians.
in writing. - the president of the european parliament unfortunately, the situation in ukraine has deteriorated again, and we cannot just walk away from it. the recent renewed fighting in the east of the country is a cause for serious concern, as it has increased the number of casualties, once again leaving thousands of innocent civilians homeless or forced to endure attacks without water, gas, or electricity. this humanitarian disaster must be remedied as soon as possible. meanwhile, instead of effectively addressing real problems, a section of the political elite is fomenting new conflicts by advocating discriminatory restrictions on the rights of the country's ethnic minorities. the draft law on education adopted at first reading disadvantages the languages of national minorities, the current language law was attacked in the supreme court, and the draft language laws submitted would prohibit the free use of national languages in various areas of life, which was also proposed to be monitored by the establishment of language police. the so-called 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic' has been established in the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. the european union needs a stable and strong ukraine, which is primarily dependent on the eventual achievement of peace. the eu must provide effective assistance in this respect, but it must also impose conditions on ukraine. in a country striving for european integration, the restriction of existing democratic rights is unacceptable, it hinders the peaceful consolidation of the country, raises new concerns about the sincerity of ukraine's european aspirations.
it's a two-card draw. there is no doubt, mr president, that the european union must have a very clear position of its own, but i would not dissociate myself from the american context. i really think it was trump's irresponsible policies that actually caused this situation. you insist that we ignore american concerns in this matter?
in writing. it would be hard to deny that since donald trump became president of the united states and put forward a change in us policy towards israel, anti-israel sentiment has been on the rise again. of course, the settlement policy of the current israeli government, which has been condemned by the un security council, also plays a role. but this cannot be an excuse for us to automatically repeat the slogans condemning israel here in the european parliament. there is no denying that the establishment of new settlements in the west bank is not conducive to peace, to reconciliation. but it also does not help peace to make unilateral decisions and blame israel unilaterally for the current situation. it is important to remember that there is significant opposition to settlement construction in israel. we cannot forget that hamas, palestinian terrorism, is a constant threat to israel, and we take much less notice of that than we do of the settlements. we must not forget the palestinian authority's policy of not serving peace. the european parliament's task is not to condemn israel in unilateral resolutions, but to promote peace through a balanced policy. discussions like today don't necessarily serve that purpose.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let me first of all thank mr fleckenstein, the rapporteur, for the very balanced approach that he took as usual to this report and his very professional handling of the negotiations with the shadows. i think the quality of the text is largely due to his professionalism. we are in desperate need of good news in the western balkans and it seems that albania, just a few years ago one of the least likely providers of such good news, is able to provide us, and above all itself, with good news. i also would like to welcome the constitutional reform albania has been successfully going through, which is a very difficult task – we all understand that – but we also know that when it comes to judicial reform it is the implementation which is the most difficult and the most important task. if albania engages in this reform process according to its envisaged reform strategy, we will be very satisfied with that. we greens would be betraying our principles if we did not draw attention to some of the environmental concerns over hydroelectric plants threatening one of the most beautiful regions in the west balkans, the vjosa river. we urge the albanian government to reconsider those plans. we also believe that albania should finally get rid of the practice of blood feuds because it is a threat to its most vulnerable children. finally, while albania’s reforms are not needed because of the eu but because of albanian citizens, we should then keep our end of the bargain and engage very soon with the accession negotiations.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 15 february 2017.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the commission report on bosnia and herzegovina for the year 2016 (a8-0026/2017) by mr cristian dan preda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs.
my fellow mps, calm down. i'm not going to let you yell at me. everyone has the opportunity and the right to comment, and to use the time available for comment. we respect each other's opinions, no yelling.
madam president, one of hungary's most important regional security interests is peace, security and stability in its neighbourhood. the stability of bosnia and herzegovina is important not only for hungary but for the whole of the western balkans and central europe. that is why i am a strong supporter of the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina. i congratulate my colleague, cristian preda, on his report and express my appreciation for the progress made by the country so far. i urge you to overcome the remaining ethnic and political divisions and to implement your reform plans consistently. the eu integration of bosnia and herzegovina can only be successful if the country makes concerted progress towards the rule of law, strengthens its legal and institutional framework to fight deep-rooted corruption, addresses shortcomings in the judiciary and public administration, and implements a legal order to protect national and minority communities. communism and the war have haunted me in this fragile post-yugoslav state. only through justice and reconciliation, human rights and the democratic rule of law can it rise and reach a united europe.
mr president i would like to say in advance that i appreciate the importance of the european semester and the development path you have described in the content of the european semester so far. i am convinced that we will use this instrument properly and effectively if we are able to act in the same way in all member states and if these reform efforts are coordinated, because only then can the european semester fulfil the function of using it as a tool for a common purpose. looking back at the 2017 semester, i see that there are some important factors that we can't ignore. one such important factor is that the european economy continues to grow at a very modest rate. the other is that external risks have increased. i am therefore convinced that efficiency must be increased and that this should be given special and targeted attention by the commission. this requires a greater partnership between the commission and the actors, in this case parliament and in this case the national actors. this requires a much more intensive discussion of each milestone and a targeted focus on the 2020 target. finally, it should be borne in mind that we adopt a number of laws, but their implementation faces obstacles. so we need to focus on this one.
in writing. in the context of the european semester, the 2017 growth report outlined the most urgent economic and social priorities on which the eu and the member states should focus. the president of the commission said that the aim was to achieve an economic recovery that would benefit everyone, but in particular the most vulnerable sections of our societies, and that would increase equity and strengthen the social dimension of our single market. in hungary today, it is precisely this layer that, due to the corruption that permeates the entire public sphere and determines the functioning of the hungarian government, does not perceive any of the possible growth of the economy. whether the commission is pushing for investment promotion or pushing for structural reforms, as long as there is corruption in the eu at the level of hungary, there can be no lasting change. the most vulnerable hungarian citizens have not even felt the positive global effects of the recent period, as they have all been absorbed by state corruption. meanwhile, social inequalities have increased, as has the risk of exclusion and poverty. not to mention that in the current international situation, corruption in the member states poses not only an economic but also a serious security threat to the eu. i therefore urge the commission to pay greater attention to and take more decisive action against corruption in the member states in the future, including within the framework of the european semester.
mr president ceta threatens eu standards in the areas of environmental protection, food safety, labour law. it is a threat to sustainable european agriculture. the institution of investment courts undermines the sovereignty of the member states. 87% of eu smes produce for the internal market, so they will not be able to enter the canadian market, but the capital-intensive companies from there will come here. us-based companies can enter eu markets via their subsidiaries, bypassing ceta and benefiting from the benefits of ceta. the ep's website is proud to announce that the 751 meps represent you, the citizens. so it's a shame that this agreement representing the interests of global corporations was passed by this parliament.
mr president in the wake of the terrorist attacks of recent years, citizens in europe - and i think everywhere - are rightly afraid for their safety and rightly expect their governments to protect them from terrorists. but we can only do that if we are willing to face the facts. this is why we must clearly distance ourselves from the vile political campaign of the european far right, which makes direct connections between refugees, migration and terrorism. they inspire fear and hate. we know that the terrible murders of recent years - mr engel was just saying this to me - were committed by young people who were born and socialized here in europe, who were marginalized, who did not find their place in european society. our job is to find the antidote to radicalization. and that's where the increasingly harsh punishments, the pointless severity, the watching and listening of everyone, the locking and closing will not help! what is needed is a more decisive approach to cooperation between intelligence services. that we use clear and targeted surveillance to disrupt and dismantle the organizing power of radical islamic circles. but most importantly, we need to take decisive and clear steps toward social inclusion and a welcoming society, so that second- and third-generation immigrants here in these liberal democracies can find their future, not radical islam.
in writing. paris, brussels, nice, berlin hundreds of innocent civilians have been killed in recent terrorist attacks in these cities. ensuring the safety of european citizens must be the first priority of national governments and the european union. the threat of further terrorist attacks is real. more than 5,000 eu citizens have left europe to take part in the fighting in syria and iraq, and the number of returnees is growing. the highly radicalized, combat-trained returnees are a huge threat. the directive under discussion today is therefore of great importance, since it makes it a criminal offence to attempt to recruit and train, to take part in terrorist training, to travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism, to organise or facilitate such travel, and to finance terrorist offences. in 2016, europol warned that another terrorist attack in europe was likely. the hungarian government is committed to enhancing the security of europe, in addition to protecting citizens, hungary supports all measures that promote the guarantee of the security of european citizens.
in writing. the paris attacks have highlighted a number of shortcomings in the existing european anti-terrorism legislation. the aim of the directive is to eliminate and update the criminal law response to terrorist offences in the european union, to integrate the relevant provisions of new international legal sources, and to ensure a uniform interpretation of terrorist acts in the union. in response to the relatively new phenomenon of 'foreign fighters', the directive also contains new facts, namely attempted recruitment and training, participation in terrorist training, travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism, organising or otherwise facilitating travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism and financing of various terrorist offences. by making these acts punishable, it will be possible to screen out potential perpetrators and thus prevent further terrorist acts. it is welcome that, in addition to the new facts, the directive also focuses on the protection and assistance of victims of terrorism. the hungarian government has supported from the outset any measure that would substantially increase europe's security, including the modernisation of the eu's counter-terrorism framework. ensuring the security of european citizens must be a top priority for all of us, because there is no freedom without security.
it's a two-card draw. my dear colleague! i'd like to ask you what you mean when you say it's a small but significant step forward for the safety of our citizens. i think that a fortress-related hysteria is more troubling to people's souls than an efficient and professionally grounded work. i think border security is a matter for the professionals and not how politicians here are harassing different peoples. so that's my question.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. - my colleagues! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. in the short and medium term, robotics and artificial intelligence do indeed promise benefits, but he fears that the number of jobs created in this area cannot match the number of jobs expected to be lost. the next generations must be prepared to meet these challenges through appropriate education. we need to answer the question of what happens when people with superpowers emerge through artificial or genetic enhancement or augmentation of existing human abilities. the report could be a first step towards the european union and the member states taking these issues seriously.
in writing. i think today's debate has completely lost its focus and its theme. for two reasons. first of all, it is only a draft, which has not yet been implemented. secondly, the design of the road pricing model presented cannot in any way be described as discriminatory. what i think some colleagues have a problem with is the question of the registration tax, which is a matter of national competence. but what's clear is that you can't mix things up. at the same time, we are not disputing the very effective and applied national legislation, which is present in more and more member states and clearly leads to the fragmentation of the european internal transport market, often making it impossible for businesses, especially smes, to work, thus jeopardising the strengthening of the main engine of the european economy, road transport. if we are going to debate, we should be debating on matters that are relevant and that are really within the european competence. thank you, thank you.
the rapporteur is the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president! for my part, i welcome the fact that the commission's strategy to tackle the challenges facing the aviation sector aims to increase competitiveness, but also to ensure greater protection of passenger and worker rights and higher safety and environmental standards, as the commissioner has just said. this is also in line with the opinion of the envi committee, which considers that the aviation sector has an important role to play in mitigating environmental impacts. however, to achieve this, the sector has a lot of work to do in terms of developing new technologies and research and development. i would like to thank those who helped me as rapporteur in the formulation of the envi opinion. finally, i should like to mention the role of the member states. i urge you to take action on the implementation of the single european sky agreement and the review of regulations on air passenger rights.
thank you very much, mr. tajani, i will not say nice things about you because you gave me your word, but i also thank you, but i have already planned to say nice things, because it was great to have an interview with you in the german press about migration. i hope mr juncker has read it, because he is dying to know what the european people think and how they see things, and now he has learned about migration, because mr tajani has conveyed exactly what the humanistically minded people of europe think about the refugee question and immigration. two pillars, one is to get to the root of the problem, so in africa, for example, and in the poor countries that are suffering, to stabilize the economy. the other is that those who are fleeing, from war or other immediate danger, should be placed as close as possible to their homes, on their own continent, where they can be safe, in normal human conditions, with medical care, access to medicine, etc. i knew right away that some of my fellow congressmen would be horrified. i ask you why you are reacting so hysterically, why you are talking about concentration camps, why you want to force millions of immigrants into europe at all costs? if you really want to keep these poor people safe, why don't you believe that this is the right solution, as tajani said?
thank you very much, madam president, the european council will return to the theme of jobs and employment next week, and i quote from the document: 'to ensure that the citizens of the european union can enjoy economic prosperity and flourishing'. well, i'm trying to be polite, but i wouldn't recommend that any official of the european union go to a village in eastern hungary with that text, because we are a temperamental people, or at least you should take out some kind of insurance first. so no prosperity, no prosperity, let's stop this dreaming, and what we should finally do, say in my country's case, 13 years after joining the european union, is to show the numbers. in the last 13 years, and before that, in the accession process, how much eu money has been pumped - and i say this without any party affiliation - into the countries of central and eastern europe, and look at whether it was corruption or what else, or whether that money has migrated back to our dear western friends and the various multinational companies, or why else has civilization been left behind, why are so many people living in poverty, in the middle of the workforce or in assembly shops, under the belt, in total insecurity, working for minimum wages, low wages, unimaginable in western europe? this is something we should be looking at, not repeating the big stories year after year.
mr president, it seems to me that major issues have been raised this afternoon and these issues are customarily described as ‘the future of europe’, but even more significant is the question: what kind of europe should we be discussing? to my mind, it should be a europe that is not merely acceptable to the citizens, but responds to their concerns, and in this connection let me ask, as parliament’s rapporteur: what exactly is happening to the european citizens’ initiative? it is after all in the treaty, in article 11, and has achieved no success at all. it is a prime instrument for connecting citizens and europe. the president of the commission, mr juncker, has rightly urged that we should stop brussels-bashing; in exactly the same way we should stop member state-bashing. we should be clear. a europe based on mutual respect, on parity of esteem, is the europe that works. it follows that the european political system has three components: brussels, the citizens, and the member states. they all have legitimate roles to play; they depend on each other. if these basic principles are not observed then the objectives of the march summit – growth, external security, migration – will be that much more difficult to attain.
thank you very much, mr. president, yes, i would like to make a point of order, an order of business. i understand that mr tajani has forbidden the use of the yellow card because of the time constraints, and vice-presidents follow suit, but i understand that, but in this case i find it completely unacceptable that all the speakers in turn should exceed his limits by five, ten, twenty or even thirty seconds. i came here specifically to listen to this debate and i also wanted to ask the mps how they can tolerate the fact that they are silent in front of the rhetoric, that viktor orbán is issuing thousands and tens of thousands of visas to uncontrolled people in this european union. i'd like to add that i don't have that option right now, but i'd like to ask the president if we can keep the time or not.
in writing. the european union turns 60 this year. brexit does not mean that the eu will retire on its 60th birthday. on the contrary, brexit is a chance for europe to be renewed. keep all that is good and change all that is bad. democracy, the market economy, the foundations of our modern society are under threat today. they're being attacked by populists, nationalists, extremists, who are using the failed ideologies of the past to try to win votes for their short-term goals. these leaders are cutting down the tree for themselves. they could be winners by now. but if it breaks up, europe will be a world apart, we'll be a russian-chinese sphere of influence. with extreme nationalist forces, we can only lose. europe's 60th birthday is not the beginning of retirement, but the opposite: we must issue a new birth certificate for europe. we need to open a new chapter where the solution to problems, to problems, is not to wait until later or to set up another committee to look at problems. the new chapter in europe that is now beginning must focus exclusively on the well-being and security of its people. all our policies should be guided by the idea that people are better off and safer. let's spend the british exit money, 60 billion euros, to overcome the byproduct of globalisation: social inequality. let us use it to make the market economy work for everyone, to stimulate growth and to revive the european dream of 60 years ago. the european dream, where children live better than their parents.
mr. president, while the european asylum system pays special attention to unaccompanied children and minors, the hungarian government would further tighten the laws on refugees. the aim of the new law is to remove unaccompanied children and young people aged between 14 and 18 from the scope of the child protection act. it means that these children are not going to be placed in foster care, they are not going to be assigned guardians, they are not going to be given special protection. the proposal also includes that minors would be automatically detained and would have to wait for the end of the asylum procedure in container camps to be set up in the transit zone. this draft is in no way in line with the un convention on the rights of the child, violates the constitutional obligation of the hungarian state, as well as the principle of protection deriving from humanity. i call the attention of the european parliament and the commission to another inhumane measure by the hungarian government. i believe we have a moral obligation to do everything we can to ensure that this bill never becomes a law.
in writing. among migrants, children on their way to europe are the most vulnerable to harassment and exploitation and the earliest victims of traffickers, so it is important for their own protection that they are registered, thus preventing their disappearance. the most effective way to prevent migrant children from disappearing is to improve the living conditions in camps close to their home countries, so that they do not have to risk their lives and face countless dangers on their way to europe. one of the most important elements of this is ensuring access to proper education, which is essential for the healthy development of children, but also for the future of their own communities - no generations should be left out of education. but it's also important to provide them with proper health care. hungary is therefore also supporting the provision of education in refugee camps in lebanon, jordan and iraq, and is pushing for the construction of a hospital.
in writing. i think the debate on the gender pay gap is important, because today the gender pay gap is around 20% at eu level. it means at least 10 extra years of work for a woman to achieve the same level of pay as a man. the extent of the decades-old pay gap varies across member states, but it is still significant. motivational campaigns have been running for years, such as the 13th annual 'equal pay day'. however, inequalities between men and women are often traced throughout the working life cycle, from job search to retirement. whether women or men are overweight varies by sector, but unfortunately it is common that less than a percentage of women reach leadership positions, regardless of sector. unfortunately, the hungarian government has not done much to end this shameful situation, although it should contribute to it. it should take immediate steps, such as regulating employers to eliminate pay discrimination, or guaranteeing recognition of care institutions and homeworking, for example. i should also stress that the differences in minimum wages in the member states and the lack of a european minimum wage are similar problems to wage discrimination within the eu, and we must implement the latter as soon as possible in line with a common european intention.
in writing. the winters of 2006 and 2009 fundamentally shook the european natural gas system, which had been considered stable. it was previously unthinkable that political battles outside the union could have such a serious impact on our daily lives. while member states were unprepared for the failure of natural gas transport, they managed to survive this dangerous period thanks to joint efforts and solidarity. but these crises entered european history not as threats but as the beginning of a new era. the energy policies of the previously isolated member states began to converge and the issues of security of supply and solidarity were reassessed. we have started to integrate the energy union in a real way, we have started to connect the networks of neighbouring member states and we have made significant steps towards market development. of course, such an integration process should not exclude the often largest-volume interstate contracts. a certain level of information and standard control can improve the bargaining power of member states, thereby contributing to their prosperity and competitiveness. but we must not completely ignore one of the most fundamental laws of the market economy, the right to trade secrets. the union must find the right balance here too: it must focus on a better europe, not more europe.
mr. president, thank you for your time. the report under consideration shows that the eu pharmaceutical market is suffering from a serious disequilibrium. the balance between public and private interests has been upset. governments would be obliged to ensure access to medicines, at obviously affordable prices, in order to protect the health of the population. private interest, as opposed to pharmaceutical profits. of course, it is necessary to ensure profitability in terms of innovation, research. but the profitability is much higher than that. the pharmaceutical industry has become one of the most profitable businesses in the world, and unfortunately, in no small part, because of the unwarranted, artificial extension of intellectual property protection. in order to protect the health of the european population, we have a duty to restore balance in this area.
(the first part of the speech was not recorded due to a technical problem.) mr. president, as the romanian state authorities want to abolish the roman catholic high school in marosvásárhely. to this end, he is using the national anti-corruption prosecutor's office, which has not only suspended the school's principal on suspicion of corruption, but is now illegally harassing hundreds of students' parents and ordering interrogations. at the same time, the county school board illegally banned the children from enrolling in elementary school. the school's fall enrollment of some four hundred students has been jeopardized, and the very existence of the school itself is at stake. i protest against the discrimination and abuse of power that is affecting our hungarian church school, and the intimidation of parents. i'm asking president antonio tajani to intervene to protect the school, the parents and the children.
mr. president, distinguished colleagues. it is always a pleasure to be able to decide and debate programmes that bring the union closer to its citizens and have a positive impact on their lives. the creative europe programme is exactly such a framework programme, which aims to support culture, creativity across europe, but unfortunately it is underfunded. i'd like to highlight two aspects of this, if i may. the minority working group, which i co-chair, has already dealt with projects under this programme on several occasions, as well as the european capitals of culture. experience has shown that these projects can play an important role in the lives of traditional national and linguistic minority communities, in preserving their identity and in promoting the coexistence of the majority and the minority. we must continue to support these projects in this way. the second element i would like to highlight, in order to underline the importance of european cultural and creative networks, is the issue of talent development in europe. building on the hungarian example, a very strong european talent support network is now operating in the union. it helps us discover, develop and nurture talent. this is an area that we need to focus on and make available to those affected the appropriate eu support, because talent is a natural resource and support is an investment in the future.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague silvia costa, the rapporteur of the report, on her excellent work. the creative europe programme is opening up a growing intercultural space for many and is the only programme that supports cultural diversity. i'm very pleased that the program is flexible enough to meet new challenges. i believe that the programme should give priority to the expansion of the budget and to the creation of a separate pillar for smes, so that their actions can be fully exploited. small organisations often do not have enough financial backing to launch projects, so it is important to emphasise that the programme must be fair to all. parliament calls for a review of these procedures to encourage as many organisations as possible to apply. there is a need to speed up final payments and to improve coordination between programmes, which can also help to mobilise other resources.
in writing. my fellow members of the european parliament! i think that the europe for citizens programme is a really good opportunity to create a closer link between european citizens and the union and it is a great contribution to the vision of a truly united europe. however, i think that as this is the only programme that focuses on european citizens and approaches the subject from their perspective, more energy and work needs to be put into it. i agree with the rapporteur that something to boost the programme is that the budget must be increased and that the programme should attract the same interest among the target groups as in previous years. i suggest that we increase the visibility of the programme by having national contact points communicate more and more powerfully with the citizens of the member states. thank you for listening.
in writing. i welcome the report, especially as it addresses the issues of disability in several places. i fully agree that additional needs should always be taken into account, including the cost of sign language interpreters for the deaf and the cost of an accompanying person for the visually or mobility impaired. i also support the idea that the accessibility aspects of the proposed user-friendly communication portal (the online platform that provides everything in one place) should be taken into account in all cases. we must set a good example.
(the first part of the speech was not recorded due to a technical problem.) mr president, hungary, my country, joined the european union 13 years ago. in comparison, there are still tens of thousands of pensioners who have a monthly pension of around 50 000 forints, or less than 200 euros, and who have basic subsistence problems. in these circumstances, i would have found it repugnant to vote for such a totally confusing programme called creative europe, which, if you will, has a budget of 1.46 billion euros. if you count in forints, let me multiply this number by 300, that's how much forints they spend on creative europe, and what that means is what we'll find on page 25: it welcomes the fact that, in the light of the significant influx of migrants and refugees into the union in recent years, the programme is becoming increasingly intercultural, which will hopefully lead to an increase in the number of projects promoting cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue and multilingualism from 2017, given that integration is likely to take off in many member states in the coming years. please redirect this money to normalizing living standards in central europe.
mr president, another excellent programme, which i did not vote for because i find it outrageous: this programme has a budget of 185 million 468 thousand euros, and the subject matter, you will be surprised to know, is that most of the projects selected deal with issues related to migration, social integration and intercultural issues. but the joke comes after the title of the report and the programme itself, this small programme with a modest budget, is 'europe for citizens' and it says in point (c) on page 29 that the campaign announced in relation to the europe for citizens programme is intended to send a strong, symbolic message that the voice of european citizens is being heard. i congratulate you from the bottom of my heart, you have done a very good job of listening to the voice of european citizens, and it would be great if you would try a little more and listen to the voice of, say, hungarian pensioners, nurses, firefighters.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i have heard from many speakers - and especially from you - that the european union is doing here only what is absolutely necessary in the light of our international commitments. although you did suggest that it could be a little bit more. but i ask you, with all due respect, in your view, if we look at it from a public health perspective, for example, what would it cost to have the european population have dental procedures to remove the amalgam and replace it with others?
in writing. equality between women and men is a fundamental right enshrined in both the treaty on european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, yet it is sad that in some member states women are treated as secondary actors. unfortunately, we hear shameful, sexist statements even within the walls of the ep. it is our fundamental duty to act against them! zero tolerance for gender-based harassment, whether it occurs in the home, workplace or other settings. i think that eu funding is a good tool in this fight and in promoting gender equality, and the report provides a good approach by examining the three different funds. the 2014-2020 budget period has little to do with gender equality and in the future, in order to strengthen transparency and democratic quality, external experts should be involved during the budgetary procedure.
mr. president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! finally, good news in the fight against religious persecution: czech missionary petr jasek has been released from prison in sudan after a year of captivity. we congratulate you on the success of czech diplomacy and human rights activists. in sudan, according to the human rights organization open doors, the persecution of christians is extreme. the country ranks fifth in the world in persecution. sudan's legal system is based on sharia. apostates are punished by death, churches are not allowed. the threat has led millions to flee to neighboring countries, making their oppression a european issue. this successful operation is a great encouragement to us. you can and must take up the fight against paranoid dictatorships. europe must act as an economic superpower! suffering christians are part of the history of their country all over the world. it is our responsibility here in europe to ensure that they can live in their homeland and in the future.
mr president, during the last plenary we heard president juncker’s five scenarios about the future of europe. what these plans lack is the commission’s position on enlargement. the 27 leaders of the 27 member states celebrate the 60th anniversary of the european founding treaties. but what will be the message conveyed from rome to the candidate states? the western balkans’ fragile stability needs strong signals from the european union that will assure serbia, macedonia, albania, montenegro and bosnia and herzegovina of their rightful place in the future of the european union. everybody knows that there are some pressing european issues like brexit, migration, elections in some member states, but we have to take the expectations of our partners in the western balkans more seriously, otherwise we might lose them. migration is still very much present, and europe’s overall security simply cannot bear any additional instability in this neighbourhood.
mr president, let me remind you that in previous resolutions, parliament has called for more ambitious targets. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) also recently called for raising the ambition of the current proposal by introducing a binding target to have 70% of municipal waste recycled by 2030 in addition to limiting the amount of municipal waste that can go to landfill to 5%. the envi committee also called for a minimum of 5% of total municipal waste to be prepared for reuse, a binding target of 80% of packaging to be recycled, and a 10% target of packaging waste to be reused by 2030. i believe that the european parliament has to send a strong message to the commission and the council and stick to this high ambition level, in line with the previous commission proposal for the package, as this is the only way to trigger action in the member states. dear mr timmermans, this is not exaggeration, this is simply the level of braveness of the previous barroso commission. we need strong incentives to reduce waste generation, food waste and marine litter as well. it is crucial that investment choices are taken so that they facilitate moving up the waste hierarchy. there is also a pressing need to phase out harmful subsidies, as well as a need for better systemic eco-design measures to counteract planned obsolescence and to substitute for hazardous substances. last, but not least, the commission has to do everything it can to ensure the implementation of the existing provisions. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
it's a two-card draw. - mr president! i really insist on raising my question because i think that the majority of the votes here are still at the level of percentages. but i would rather ask the honourable member whether you would be able to live with or support such radical ideas as banning one litre of plastic bottles everywhere, given that this is increasing exponentially and it doesn't show up in the percentages.
that's a two-card answer. thank you for asking. i think that in the long term the system should definitely move towards reusable packaging. what is the possible speed of this and what can be agreed between parliament, the council and the commission? this limits and defines the level of ambition from which we can go forward. i myself argued during the debate on the package and i still argue that we should move as quickly and as ambitiously as possible. we have to get to the point where we can completely eliminate disposable packaging from the system.
mr president the four pieces of legislation under discussion do not simply revise the waste legislation, but actually introduce a complex way of thinking. it sees waste as a resource, a secondary resource in a circular economy. reuse, recycling and recycling are becoming key concepts. but there are critical parts to presentations. the aim of reducing municipal waste landfilling to only 10% or 5% by 2030 is simply unrealistic. the european commission, through its delegated and implementing acts, effectively takes away the decision-making power of the member states, as was clearly expressed in the opinions of the french national assembly and the austrian parliament.
mr president i would also like to warmly congratulate mrs kadenbach on her report, which is a real gift to this parliament and to european consumers. and i also agree that by extending controls to the eu level we can both serve the smooth functioning of the internal market and protect consumers, to maintain confidence in eu products from the point of view of our trade agreements. we therefore ask the commission to monitor member states' enforcement vigorously to ensure that we have an effective system. for all these reasons, i propose that the report be adopted without amendment. but it's not just the checks that we need to standardize. the next step is to harmonise national food safety registers. this will avoid the rise of populist voices based on the different nature of current regulations, which are now deliberately inciting the population against the european union because of the differences in the content of supposed or real western and eastern european food.
in writing. the report on the european parliament's budgetary guidelines is the starting document of the 2018 budgetary procedure, setting out parliament's political priorities. the report states that the 2018 process is guided by the motto: 'a union budget for sustainable growth, jobs and security'. hungary has been leading the way for years in sustainable economic growth, increasing employment, reducing unemployment and strengthening the security of its citizens, so this is an important message for us. the report also states that the mid-term review of the current seven-year financial framework should be completed as soon as possible, i.e. the european parliament should contribute to the compromise agreed by the council of member states' representatives as soon as possible. this is key for hungary for two reasons: the council confirmed that reductions in cohesion, agricultural and rural development funds, i.e. funds previously allocated to member states, are excluded from the review. this ensured that the eu funds sought by the orbán government could not be reduced and that the subsidies of hungarian farmers were also ensured. the revision of the mff could also help avoid the liquidity crisis that occurred during the previous seven-year framework, when the commission was unable to pay the invoices submitted to the member states after the projects had been implemented. the council agreement can provide an adequate guarantee: sufficient resources will be available in the annual budgets to pay for the catch-up programmes and agricultural subsidies already in place.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! the report on the agenda is not merely a technical document, even if the title might suggest so. the so-called 700 mhz band could be a milestone for the development of ultra-wideband internet and 5g internet connectivity, but also for the development of the entire digital union. the 470-790 mhz frequency band is currently used for digital terrestrial television and for various audio equipment such as wireless microphones. the so-called 800 mhz frequency band (790-862 mhz) is used for broadband services, but this is no longer sufficient for the further development of these services. the essential condition for moving forward is the availability of sufficient radio spectrum. from 2020, the 700 mhz band would also be available for broadband and 5g internet services, thus contributing, inter alia, to improving the quality of digital and broadband services, to full coverage of rural and less developed regions and to ensuring social, societal and digital cohesion in the eu. i would also highlight the objective of concluding cross-border frequency coordination agreements which would allow the future use of the frequency band across borders without interference and, consequently, the gradual abolition of territorial restrictions on digital services. i believe that we should not stand in the way of digital progress and that we should create the right technical preconditions by adopting a report.
in writing. the telecommunications market is undergoing a major transformation. technological progress has made innovative solutions available that have fundamentally transformed the world as we know it, creating a whole new competitive landscape. we don't yet know exactly what technological innovations will have the greatest impact on our future, but if we don't act in time, we are guaranteed to fall behind in global competition. we must not see this transformation as a threat but as an opportunity. if europe can lead the technological revolution, it can put its economy on a growth path that will also give future generations an advantage in international competition. fifth generation telecommunications technology can bring fundamental changes in the field of related services. europe needs to become a market leader in the development and application of these technologies, as competition in the telecommunications market is becoming more intense. the liberalisation of the 700 mhz frequency band is the first major step in this direction. there may be differences of opinion on the timing of the restructuring, but broadband wireless internet access is in the interest of consumers. this will help to reduce the digital geographical gap, improve coverage and increase transmission speeds.
in writing. the european council has finally decided at its last meeting that, due to the opposition of the hungarian government, amongst others, there will be no european public prosecutor's office with competence for all member states, but instead a european public prosecutor's office will be set up with the cooperation of only some member states. hungary, by joining the eu, has undertaken to protect the eu's financial interests in the same way as its own. it hasn't done so, but by withdrawing from government, it's made it clear that it's more interested in committing crimes safely than detecting them. it's a huge profit for the oligarchs around fidesz, the companies that cheat on the vat, because they can continue to practice their state-sponsored practices without any serious controls. although most member states ignore common sense, the problem with the enhanced cooperation prosecutor's office is precisely the same as that of the tax competition: countries that do not cooperate with others create loopholes that allow the system to be circumvented. european vat fraud will then be carried out, to an even greater extent than before, through hungary or poland instead of germany or france. hungary is gradually becoming a tax black hole in the eu. it is essential that in the next long-term eu budget, subsidies should be the limit of the eppo, as this is the only way to ensure the fulfilment of the obligation under the basic treaty. the hungarian government will also submit to the jurisdiction of the eppo if it is the only way to access european funds.
in writing. jean-claude juncker, president of the european commission, recently presented a five-course menu on how to move forward. from the eu's decline into a free trade area, through a two-speed europe, to the image of a progressive federal europe. the uk supports the fifth solution, the creation of a united states of europe. viktor orbán, brexit and other disasters are good for europe to constantly renew itself, deepen its integration. the next stop is the united states of europe, with a common foreign and economic policy, a common army. it's happening right now, right in front of us. we can decide whether to join him. the united states of europe would make us stronger, put us back on the world map, exploit our potential. we would live better and safer in a united europe. with a united europe, we can overcome the byproduct of globalisation: social inequality. we will have the power to make the market economy work for everyone, not just the privileged few, to drive growth. a united europe means unity, not uniformity. it's not a threat to us, quite the opposite. i believe that a united europe is in hungary's best interests.
mr president when we think of the attacks in paris, brussels or berlin, we think first of all of the victims. their senseless deaths force us to consider what we must do to ensure the safety of european citizens. first of all, we must recognize that terrorism cannot be stopped only by fences, by walls, by increasingly stringent laws, by new and new committees. it requires a different way of thinking, a different approach. we have to ask why the descendants of former immigrants who have grown up here in europe are turning against europe, against european values, are becoming radicalised. but we also need to answer how, 70 years after world war ii, neo-nazi groups can flourish in europe and how some of the hopeless working class youth can become violent racists. there is no more important task for us today than stopping radicalization. and that can only be done with a common european programme. a programme that effectively promotes social inclusion, offers a future, a perspective, prosperity, social security for all. if we want to stop radicalization, if we want to prevent more terrorist attacks, we need to create programs that can bring back, win back, those young people who have been pushed to the margins of society and turned to radical ideas. if we can't do that, then there's no point in talking about security and fighting terrorism.
in writing. the events in brussels a year ago shocked us all to the point that such horrors can happen to any of us at any time. they made it clear that we cannot enjoy our freedom without security. these events have made our eu counter-terrorism policy more rigorous and coordinated, but recent events (see germany) are a further warning. the open door policy is being exploited by radicalized groups to infiltrate europe, to abuse the loopholes in the asylum system, the waiting time for applications to be processed. therefore, it is necessary to separate the schengen borders from those who are actually entitled to refugee status, which is what the hungarian government wanted with the new law. according to a europol report last week, there are now more than 5000 international organised crime groups operating in the eu, not a decrease but a significant increase compared to 2013. these international criminal groups are increasingly linked to arms trafficking and migration-related crimes such as human trafficking and forgery of documents. the only way to guarantee the security of our continent and to stop the smuggling of people is to separate economic migrants from genuine refugees outside the european union and to prevent anyone from entering europe unchecked. we need to know who's entering our countries, what their intentions are, and that's the only way to avoid another disaster. we must put the safety of our own citizens first!
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would particularly like to thank the commissioner for a very thorough exposition of the commission’s position. i think we can all agree on two things: without political parties democracy as we currently understand it is inconceivable. the running of political parties requires ever greater outlays in order to ensure that voters are properly informed of their choices. so if politics is a costly pastime, say, at the member state level, how much more expensive is it at the european level? and as far as this parliament is affected it is this european level that matters. what we are focusing on today is the statute and funding of european political parties and european political foundations. when it comes to funding, the european political parties are currently required to secure 15% of their financing from their own resources. in the light of experience, this 15% should be reduced and the appropriate regulation be amended accordingly. then the definition of a european political party should be looked at again. currently such a party can claim support from parliament on the basis of having one elected mep. this seems too low a threshold and should well be increased. finally, there is the perplexing situation where the european parliament ends up financing parties or foundations that proclaim values entirely at variance with those of the european union and indeed european integration. in a democracy the voicing of such views, repellent or otherwise, can be acceptable but it really is hard to see why the european parliament should be subsidising political forces that are trying to ensure that it is eliminated. so, turkeys voting for an early christmas? well, not exactly, but i can see a certain family resemblance.
blue-card question. – i think there may be a misunderstanding; i do not know if the honourable gentleman heard me correctly. i talked about turkeys, the birds, not turkey, the country.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by michael gahler and esteban gonzález pons, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs, on the proposal for a regulation (cfsp) on the constitutional, legal and institutional implications of the treaty of lisbon (a8-0042/2017).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, let me first of all thank all the rapporteurs for the work they put into this report; considerable innovative energy went into this. sometimes i have the feeling that there is a little too much of this innovative energy. we, in the green group, believe that the report is an important one; the aim of it is a very legitimate and crucial one for the time. had it been about unleashing the full potential of the lisbon treaty in the field of security and defence, we would have been in full support. however, we feel – and i am sorry to say so – that this report is more of a missed opportunity in that regard. (the president cut off the speaker due to a technical problem with interpretation)i am sorry to our italian colleagues for missing the first part. however, the idea that the eda should be transformed into a sui-generis institution and, as such, be the nucleus of a potential european minister of defence is indeed a very controversial one. it would be an agency without transparency, parliamentary oversight, let alone control. we are in full support of centralisation; it makes sense in this field, but not in this way, without any accountability whatsoever. secondly, we believe that, before committing large amounts of fresh money to defence and security, we should explore the full potential of efficiency gains through cooperation, and only after this should we consider additional funding that might be available through the european union budget or from member states. these are the main reasons why our group is unable to support the report, even though we are committed to a stronger european common defence and security policy and there are many very good ideas in the report in general.
madam president, this report could hardly be more timely, and my congratulations to the rapporteur, because for too long europe has lived off the so-called peace dividend and relied on soft power and, in parallel, has tended to neglect hard power. the developments of the last few years tell us why we need to change: the ongoing crisis in the middle east, terrorism, the rule of russia, and more recently the demand by washington that europe must play a significantly more active role in its own defence are the key factors in this respect. yet the possible defence structures of the european union are already in place, notably in article 42 of the treaty. this article is fairly clear in mentioning operational capacity at the european level, common defence, and an undertaking by member states progressively to improve their military capabilities. it could not be clearer. so the scope for change is considerable. to the above, one can usefully add: improvement in security and counterterrorism cooperation – a sensitive area of course. major cost benefits can be expected from joint military procurement. having a shared defence objective can also mean much greater investment in military technology, bringing spill-over with it and the transfer of innovation into the civilian sector. it is clear enough that the private sector is generally risk-averse where blue sky research is concerned, but the state can transform this, precisely because the state can focus on the long term rather than on short-run profitability. there is enormous scope for the european union to push forward in this broad area of common defence.
madam president, my congratulations to mr jáuregui on an excellent report. there is no question in my mind that e-democracy is already happening and will assume ever greater importance in the years to come. various aspects of governance are already structured electronically, so this report is not only timely, but is equally highly cogent. there is an ideal typical model of e—democracy, something along the lines of each and every citizen participating in political decision-making thanks to their computer or smartphone this sounds a little bit like a futuristic version of the classical athenian agora. reality will be different; it usually is. in the first place, not everyone has easy and inexpensive access to the cyber world; there are cost factors that have to be taken into account. second, there are cognitive impediments. some citizens will simply find it difficult to follow the protocols. whether we like it or not, cyber literacy is not universal. equally, the enabling software has to be designed with special care. my own recent experience illustrates this, when i was trying to complete the hungarian interim census form and failing so that i had to deal with a human enumerator. finally, cyber security. the provision of this is a constant struggle, but the technological leap that quantum technology promises in ensuring complete security is not that far away. the eu has to be on top of this, and this report usefully points the way.
the first item is the debate on the report by mr marco affronte on behalf of the committee on fisheries on the proposal for a 'union framework for the collection, processing and use of data in the fisheries sector' (com ((2015) 0294) c8-0160/2015 2015/0133 (cod)) (a8-0150/2016).
i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the case of pastor evan mawarire, zimbabwe1 (2017/2608 ((rsp)). _______1 see minutes of the meeting.
i understand your remarks in the first three sentences.
no more comments, no more distractions. i understand, i see the congressman's application, i understand his request, i'll forward it, we'll look into it, and we'll get back to you. it's not like they're sending you an e-mail so you don't know what's going on, but they're contacting you personally and investigating. i'll pass your request on to the board. we'll go back to the list.
i have received five motions for resolutions. i'll close this discussion. the vote shall take place at the end of the debate. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the situation of ukrainian political prisoners in russia and crimea1 (2017/2596 ((rsp)). _______1 see minutes of the meeting.
i would like to inform all those who occupy the gallery that they should refrain from any expression of opinion because our procedure does not allow it. and the representatives have rightly objected to this. so they can't give their approval or comment on what's going on in this room.
mr president, europe cannot stand by and watch these patriots being dragged into the aggressor's own jurisdiction, imprisoned, tortured. but beyond that, i think the european union and the high representative in general should take a much more active, decisive and visible role for the local population in restoring peace in ukraine, in reversing putin's aggressive expansion. and we must continue these efforts with the knowledge that the aggressor cannot be restrained by leniency. the illegal occupation and militarization of crimea, and the cruel and cynical attitude of russia towards the fate of ukrainian patriots there, also serve as a warning that the eu can only effectively confront putin's provocations with a firm and united response. and if a member state government undermines this unity for selfish political interests, and courtes putin and serves his purposes, it exposes all of europe to a concrete, direct security risk.
in writing. i welcome the draft emergency resolution on the protection of ukrainian political prisoners and crimean tatars held by russia and against the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. one of the eu's tasks is to prevent the war situation in its neighbourhood from turning into a frozen conflict and to help stabilise the country as soon as possible. ukraine has declared its desire to join the european union and should not be left in the difficult situation it is in. the eu also has a responsibility to ensure that ukraine can complete its reform process and become a democratic state of law, free from russian influence and free from the soviet legacy. the protection of human rights and the protection of indigenous minorities must also be a task for the eu!
madam president, mr. commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i'm going to use your mother tongue and my mother tongue to take advantage of this few seconds. i accept what you said, i have no objection to you thinking about the situation and trying to give the most correct answers, but you had a sentence, and i would like to take that very seriously, that you want to give political answers to political questions. that's what i need. we have already done so on behalf of parliament by limiting ourselves, there are really very few questions, i think that nine thousand seems a lot to you, perhaps not so much in relation to the capacity of the commission. but yes, when a member asks what he is asking, he wants to give a political answer that he can present to the voters, or in any medium, that yes this is the position of the european commission. the answer to the vast majority of questions is still, "we'll see". that's not going to do much good.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, mr. deputy, i would like to thank you for your time. i ask you, as the representative of the largest political group in the european parliament, probably because they can be quite effective. well, you mentioned, and your party colleagues did, that there are traffickers and innocent victims. and the demand side, the people who use these terrible services, is very little talked about. what do you think can be done to avoid the need for all this horror?
in writing. trafficking in human beings, especially women and children, is one of the most alarming phenomena in the world and unfortunately one of the fastest growing criminal industries. it is hard for many of us to imagine, but millions of people today are still forced to work in slavelike conditions in factories, on farms, and in homes. the global slavery index estimates that 35.8 million people are living in slavery today. in its latest report on the fight against trafficking in human beings, the european commission estimates that 16 000 people fall victim to this heinous crime in the eu each year. this situation is intolerable and untenable! it is unacceptable for any person to live as a slave in the 21st century in europe or anywhere else in the world. in close connection with human trafficking, human smuggling is flourishing on our continent and in the world today. according to europol, there are currently more than 5000 international organised crime groups operating in the eu, which is not a decrease but a significant increase compared to 2013. and these international criminal groups are increasingly linked to migrant smuggling, which not only brings migrants illegally into europe but also encourages them to embark on the life-threatening journey. we must therefore use all means at our disposal to dismantle the networks of human traffickers.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all i would like to say thank you to kateřina for her outstanding work with the file. palm oil is clearly one of the major drivers of tropical deforestation and it not only has climate-related problems but also has a disastrous effect on biodiversity, and it also has some human rights issues including land grabbing and forced eviction of indigenous people. so that makes it clear that for the eu there are some things to do. the eu is the world’s largest importer of embedded deforestation and also one of the biggest markets for palm oil globally. we greens, in line with the report, believe that there is a clear need for a fully sustainable palm oil supply chain by 2020. also we call on the commission to come up with an action plan on palm oil. there is a need for comprehensive sustainability criteria for palm oil products, also with independent auditing and monitoring of the certification schemes. in the long term we also need a mandatory certification scheme for palm oil in the eu, and also binding commitments, in particular an anti-deforestation guarantee in trade and development cooperation agreements with producing countries. altogether i think that we also have to go beyond palm oil, as there are other issues of deforestation as well, and we call on the commission to come up with not only a palm oil action plan but also with a deforestation action plan as soon as possible.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, madam member of the european parliament, i hope i understood what you said, but if i did, i'm a little bit off base, because it seemed like you were putting the burden of solving the problem on the producing countries, while the developed countries are the ones that are driving demand for these products. don't you think it's better to live with the demand narrowing down than to point it out?
madam president! first of all, let me thank everyone for their work, because it seems that there is a kind of tangible consensus between the parties. now, as the people's party leader responsible for the opinion prepared by the development committee, i would like to highlight first of all the points of view of those who live and work in the palm oil producing regions. of course, it would be tempting to talk about environmental issues. palm oil production is largely tied to international corporations with huge markets, although these companies provide a kind of work, a livelihood for the residents, and they also leave the residents extremely vulnerable. not to mention, small local producers have no chance of competing with the giant corporations. the environmental impact of palm oil extraction, and first of all the deforestation, which has been talked about a lot here, is being suffered by the local people. i would like to say that i see that we have two walls: we must give them the right weight and attention, and we are doing that here today, the interests of those who live there. we are combining environmental and sustainability considerations in our development policy, and i am firmly convinced that europe cannot benefit from deforestation and inhumane working conditions in the current palm oil production system.
madam president! i think that in this situation, it would be a great pity to strike at the brazilian side in the mercosur negotiations, given that there is a presumption of goodwill on both sides. but the fact that some fraudulent companies, fraudsters, criminals have exploited the weaknesses of the european system is a fact. in english, we have the right answer if we strengthen our own border controls, food controls and our entire system in general, in such a way that it is so strong, it is so clearly visible that no one will even think of sending damaged or poisoned shipments here, to this region, to this continent. i think we should sweep our own front door a little bit and not necessarily call for an immediate ban, but for much stronger control.
madam president! again, the usual situation, there is a problem with the title, the situation of women in rural areas, but in which rural areas, please, in which member state? in austria, for example, where there is a strong rural citizenship, where the land is passed from mother to daughter, from father to son, the small farms, mixed farms, maybe a small inn, and so on, or in hungary, a hundred kilometers away, where there was a communist-type system of cooperative production, which ended, the right people got the land, it is very difficult for women to get land, you spoke correctly about the difficulties of getting land to the previous colleague, but you did not speak about the fact that the situation is quite different in those countries where oligarchs acquire the land from one person to another, and very few women belong to these oligarch groups. on the other hand, you, our dear western friends, who have managed to get the land to be included in the free flow of capital, this disgrace, please, if you want to help rural women, maybe in the countries of central and eastern europe, please, please, stop the land from being included in the free flow of capital.
madam president! in the past few days, nearly 40,000 scientists, academics, university professors from around the world, including 15 nobel prize-winning economists, have raised their voices because hungarian prime minister viktor orbán wants to close the region's best international university in budapest, the central european university. in the hungarian media, i have called this move "orbital congestion", and yesterday 10,000 young people demonstrated with similar views against this diabolical plan. the phlegm of power's response today is to fabricate a law in 24 hours to legalize its evil. viktor orbán, as the most enthusiastic supporter of putin and erdogan in the european union, is not only destroying education, but also the entire hungarian civil sector with another shameful law. the hungarian people are now crying out for european solidarity.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, madam deputy speaker, i would like to thank you for your time. in line with the things you have mentioned, i would like to ask you whether you feel that our current will, the will that is emerging here in parliament, embodies rules that make it clear what methodology manufacturers should use to examine real-time tests?
mr president, recent developments show that it is important to improve the procedure for type approval of cars in the european union. we need stronger rules that will effectively deal with the emission problems for diesel cars. in past years, all our attention was focused on the lowering of co2 emissions and particulate matter, without devoting enough attention to nox. today we cannot punish customers for buying diesel cars. with the new proposal we are introducing new real-driving emissions tests that are closest to real-world use, and we will also introduce new type-approval legislation that will help diesel cars to become much cleaner, but we do not need new agencies for that. for the upcoming years the classic technologies based on fossil fuels and the alternative solutions will be present side by side. we should use this period to prepare new development plans focusing on new innovative technologies in order to safeguard europe’s position as the number one car maker in the world.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to go. i'd like to ask you if we both agree that there are cars and trailers that need to be inspected, but there might be some kind of inspection system. but are you aware that there is a common european methodology for examining these workshops or institutions?
it's a two-card draw. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to thank the member for her reply. i'd like to ask you two questions, both very simple. one is, how much do you believe in the credibility of the european union in negotiating with partner countries, when there is a very wide range of positions within the european union on the refugee issue? for example, in my country, hungary, the fidesz government that sits in your ranks, the orbán government, is actually putting refugees in jail. how do you people in the people's party live with that?
madam president! the report states that migration for economic reasons or in search of a better life is just as legitimate as flight from persecution. this is unacceptable! does a person who is in danger of losing his life and is a refugee have the same right to come to europe as someone who decides that he will live better by relying on a swedish or german social network? this is unacceptable. the rapporteur is calling for a paradigm shift, which means that we should not even talk about a crisis, we should not say that it is a migrant crisis, but treat it as an opportunity. this is nothing more than a deliberate countdown of the remaining immune systems of europe. we hear the word solidarity all the time, solidarity, but we don't hear one word about solidarity with the indigenous people of europe.
mr president the european union has wasted many years, whether it wants to or not, dealing with the migrant crisis that has almost unexpectedly hit it. although it was clear from the outset that a common european security and defence policy was needed to cope with the influx of millions of immigrants, it has been slow to develop. in this context, the renewed efforts of the foreign service, the commission and the ep to address and bring the refugee issue back to normal can only be welcomed. the rome declaration addresses the extraordinary challenge of migration in its place, and the recent maltese resolution of the european people's party on illegal migration is also well on its way to finding a solution. the valenciano de mera report is unfortunately a major step backwards. in agreement with hungary and the visegrad countries, our first task must be to protect europe at all costs from the invasion of illegal immigrants. it is true that we must give all possible help to genuine refugees and respect the human rights of migrants. but our main task is to protect europe's citizens and nations, our security, our democratic order, our identity and our common values. the pope should also defend our european christianity, our faith and our values.
mr president, a serious question has to be straight. my highest respect to the rapporteurs that they are trying to find the right way concerning the question of refugees. i have regularly visited the countries in the middle east for many years. i have had numerous meetings with local religious political leaders, dealing with migration issues. each of them urged europe to help migrants on the spot in their own region. i hope you are aware that if you approve this report you will send, in indirect form, an invitation to thousands and thousands of potential refugees. you encourage them to leave their homes with the fake illusion of a better life. but can you guarantee this better life for all of them? can you promise them that they and their children can get safely to europe? can you take responsibility for their future? it is time to change the paradigm and turn the focus on helping them in their own homeland after the tragedies of previous years. i am afraid that, for all its good will, the message of this report is that europe wants to use the people as second-rank citizens to solve its own demographic and labour problems.
madam president, we can be certain that this resolution will not be popular in brexit circles. there will definitely be those who will denounce it as impertinent, or worse. there are many in the united kingdom who see leaving the european union as a kind of liberation. it can take quite a while for illusions to dissipate. for the time being, the launching of article 50 has brought with it an early silly season. bizarre things are being said and, no doubt, will continue to be said. this can be irritating, even provocative, but that is no reason for us to follow suit. on the contrary, we can stay calm and pursue negotiations with the same professionalism and commitment that is reflected in this resolution. after all, the uk will always have a relationship with europe. our aim is, and should be, to frame the long term: to ensure that the future is a positive sum game.
in writing. the uk's exit from the european union is not a welcome development. now that the process has begun, it is necessary to ensure that it is as efficient as possible. this will be done with the long-term strategic objectives of both parties in mind, as the uk-europe link will remain. we need to conduct the brexit negotiations calmly, professionally and with commitment. we can only aim at a long-term plan and a positive outcome which all member states will ratify with a clear conscience. there will certainly be trade-offs, but the interests of both eu and uk workers will always be at stake. the aim of the separation must be to minimise the damage and loss to the citizens of the european union.
in writing. since the referendum, we have been waiting for the british government and parliament to consider what to do with the result. we were hoping that somehow, by some miracle, common sense would be heard, and we were waiting to see if the united kingdom would activate article 50. unfortunately, theresa may has embarked on the process of withdrawal with contradictions and threats, unsettling not only the representatives of the union, but also the british remainers. it is now up to the eu institutions to define the conditions that must be met during the negotiations in order to protect the interests of the union and its citizens. most importantly, the withdrawal agreement should provide for the status, rights and working conditions of european citizens living in the united kingdom and british citizens living in europe in a reassuring manner, respecting the principle of reciprocity and non-discrimination. the financial settlement of eu-britain should cover the obligations towards the union arising from the 2013-2020 budget, as well as the costs of withdrawal. future relations can only be established after the conclusion of the withdrawal agreement, including agreements with member states. future relations can only be built on the basis of the union's core values, taking into account the union's principles and rules on human rights, fair economic and fiscal competition, environmental protection and climate change.
in writing. the united kingdom has formally started the process of leaving the european union. the will of the british people must be respected, but the coming period will be a time of terrible realization. the nostalgia of great power, the nationalist pride, has not saved anyone from reality. europe's share of the global economy will continue to decline in the coming years. not because we're getting smaller, but because the chinese, the indians, the brazilians are getting bigger. so in this respect, there are two types of eu member states: the smaller ones and those who don't know they are small yet. even the largest european member states are dwarfed by the populations of china and india. the rules of the game have changed, some people are noticing this, others are trying to hide it behind nationalism. we're gonna have to get used to it, because we're not going to be able to go it alone anymore. separation is the past, cooperation is the future. nationalist leaders lie when they say the eu is encroaching on our existence. without the eu, our days are numbered when our competitors are continental countries. the fate of the european countries is tied together, whether we like it or not. there is only one way forward, and that is deeper integration with the eu, which is able to compete with the rest of the world.
in writing. i believe that this decision is a commitment to a negotiating approach that preserves the eu's acquis, unity and values, ensures the promotion of common interests and the continuation of the european construction, which will provide important political support to the eu representatives at the negotiating table. but it's still a sad fact that brexit is ultimately a losing battle. i therefore believe that, with regard to the public communication of this resolution, it is important that we at least draw political lessons from the irresponsibility of cameron, who, after years of anti-eu, populist incitement, has ultimately put the development of his country, the future of his people, at risk. i don't think so, but i hope that this message serves as a serious warning to orbán and other right-wing, nationalist, demagogic politicians who are clinging to their power.
mr president i expected the european parliament's brexit decision to prepare for a frictionless, peaceful separation, while also outlining the possibility of further close cooperation. it sets the conditions for the uk beyond 2020 that led the majority of the population to vote to leave. it also calls into question its sovereignty, refusing to initiate any negotiations in the run-up to the withdrawal. the speakers believe that it is in the interests of the eu-27. no, because it would also be in the interest of the member states to continue to cooperate as closely as possible. i hope that the council and the commission will not follow this path, because this is nothing but revenge against the british and a deterrent to those member states who might think of leaving later.
mr president it seems that the european union has not learned much from brexit. you didn't look at the underlying reasons, you didn't look at whether what you've labeled as extremist, nationalist, primitive, i don't know, what kind of majority in england wanted to leave the union. they did not look deeply into the fact that one of the main reasons was the rejection of migration, and within that, also migration within the union which also had to be addressed at its roots. we should look at what causes this and how we can change the fact that people in the former socialist countries of central and eastern europe are looking for fragments, like in western countries, and that's why they are taking themselves and going, for example, from hungary to england. now, hungary has finally launched an initiative with several central and eastern european countries to eliminate these brutal income and wage disparities. please listen and support.
mr president i report that we hungarians no longer want to be the assembly plant of western countries with poorly paid wage workers. let me introduce you to some headlines: the hungarian invention detects heart disease, the state-of-the-art urine analyzer system was presented at the university of szeged, a sensational hungarian invention for the delight of allergy sufferers, well-known american universities are interested in a hungarian medical invention, namely the anatomy simulator, medical breakthrough, intelligent oncological surgery: the path of a hungarian invention. please, research, development, innovation and the manufacture and marketing of these fabulous innovations for hungarian products: this is the hungarian way, please, if you do not want to burden your countries with internal migration, then help and support us in this and we hungarians believe in ourselves that we are capable of this!
my fellow members of parliament! i may be a masochist, but i think a lot about the victims of terrorism -- the victims in london, paris, brussels, berlin -- the mother who rushed to get her two young children to the nursery on westminster bridge and never got there. i thank god that in hungary we are in a situation where we cannot have a radicalized muslim mass within our borders. i thank god that we made the wise decision to not give in to any pressure and not allow mass migration. anyone who denies that these brutal acts of terrorism are connected to even a multigenerational immigration system is lying. western countries would rather think about what they've done wrong and how to improve the situation of their citizens than try to force on us what they... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, please. hate speech, fake news on social media - this is not a new phenomenon. however, the perception of these phenomena has changed dramatically in recent times, as they have suddenly, and perhaps somewhat unexpectedly, become more politically significant. and this process is inseparable from the rise of far-right parties and movements, from the reckless politics that exploits people's ignorance, fear, anxiety to mislead, deceive, create low feelings towards others, create hatred. but the far right is not just using social media for this, it's making hate, dividing society, a central part of its political culture, even a government policy. if anyone thinks that's too much, take a look at hungary or poland. and that's the essence of illiberal democracy that's being built in these countries: deception, manipulation, demagogy. the hungarian prime minister claims that the refugees threaten the security of the country and the hungarian culture. he claims the european union wants to dictate taxes, to attack job creation measures. he claims that ngos are foreign-funded organizations that threaten the country's independence, break the law, and encourage illegal immigration, when he knows that's not true. but he's still running a propaganda campaign called the national consultation on these issues. in this world of lies, the central european university and the critical, free academic world in general become enemies. and this government party sits there, in this parliament, in the ranks of the epp. he enjoys its protection, its support. all because he's afraid of democracy. but if we in the european parliament do not resolutely oppose this policy, if we do not exclude it from the walls of this parliament, then we too will be contributing to the destruction of democracy.
mr president i really appreciate your flexibility to allow almost any kind of spontaneous speech. however, if i wanted to express my appreciation to you by telephone, and say here in strasbourg, from my hungarian telephone number, from my hungarian mobile number, i would call you on your polish mobile number, then it would really be very cheap. but if i wanted to do it from budapest, from the same mobile phone that i have, which is a hungarian mobile phone, then i could only call you as an international call, specifically on the phone. we have not yet been able to resolve this contradiction, so i ask the commission to consider doing something about it, because it is very expensive to call from one's own mobile phone in one's own country to a foreign country, although it is cheaper elsewhere.
it's a two-card draw. - mr. deputy, i have to ask you to leave. thank you for accepting my question. we are indeed talking about visa facilitation, but it is clear that the european parliament and the european union are helping ukraine in many other ways, not least through the instruments of preferential trade and - and i must say this here - through the embargo against the russians. what do you think of the voices here in the european parliament who may be calling for the easing of the russian embargo?
mr. president, i have to ask you... i am pleased that tomorrow we will finally be able to vote to contribute to visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens to the european union. this can be the successful conclusion of a long process, for which ukrainian citizens have sacrificed and worked hard. visa-free travel has given hundreds of thousands of people formal freedom of travel, the opportunity to study abroad. it can facilitate the contacts of hungarian, bulgarian, romanian, slovak, polish and other minority communities living in ukraine with the motherland. however, there are also physical limitations: the poor or inadequate state of border infrastructure, roads and border crossings, so if we want to provide tangible help to citizens, the eu needs to develop an effective plan and provide funding to develop these. this would eliminate the long waits at the border and ensure european-level conditions for entry. ukraine should be supported in the implementation of the necessary reforms, through foreign and domestic policy and economic stabilisation. the eu must send clear signals to ukraine that the drive for democratisation and european integration is not enough to be declared, but must be taken into account in action. for example, it is unacceptable to discriminate against the linguistic and educational rights of minorities living in the country, guaranteed by the constitution, or to allow extremist groups to create tensions between the majority and the minorities. the concept of social consolidation and peaceful coexistence based on mutual respect, and the establishment of legal certainty, should therefore play an important role in the work of legislators.
in writing. my fellow members of parliament! today, it is very important to send a positive message to citizens within the union and beyond. being originally from serbia, i have personal experience with visa complications. in the early 2000s, we stood in long lines at the consulates and embassies of eu member states to get visas. especially young people who wanted to know about europe. we felt like second-class europeans, feared by the eu and seen as a threat. in ukraine, as in the western balkans, there is a great need for an eu presence and for an increase in its influence. if we fail to take this opportunity to consolidate our position, others will take our place, further increasing the potential threats that could threaten the future of europe. so i'm asking everyone to vote in favour of this report. thank you for listening.
thank you very much for the commissioner's really comprehensive and thorough response, and we can only hope that this protection provided by the privacy shield will work as well. i have received two motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the 2016 report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (a8-0055/2017) by mr ivo vajgl, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place at the first meeting in may. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after the recommendation to the council by vilija blinkevičiūtė on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities on the oral question to the council on the commission on the status of women (csw) (o-000027/2017 - b8-0214/2017) (2017/2544 ((rsp)).
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. on the occasion of the roma day on 8 april, the european parliament organised roma week for the second time this year, which provided an opportunity for a number of high-quality and interesting programmes, conferences and exchanges of ideas. roma day and roma week, a celebration of roma culture, a celebration of roma identity, and an opportunity to celebrate roma pride. it is also an opportunity to highlight the problems that the roma community in europe and the member states still faces today. the european roma strategy and the many programmes implemented by the member states and the union, despite the money spent, the situation of roma communities on the ground has not improved in recent decades, in recent years. the various forms of segregation, segregation in education, health, housing, the inability to access the labour market, the fact that eu funds often do not help, although they are intended to do so, do not help the integration of roma communities, but sometimes have the opposite effect. this also indicates that the union's fundamental provisions, values, rights and rules are not being implemented. we can't afford to sit back on this. we must call attention to the need to continue to take action against segregation, anti-gypsyism, racism in all its forms. we must implement the existing legislation and force member states to respect the eu's fundamental values and fundamental rights, in all cases with regard to the roma minority, the roma community. ladies and gentlemen, europe is facing many problems and we have many debates about how to make this community a success. but we must agree that without the integration of the roma community, without the success of the roma community, neither europe nor its member states will ever be able to succeed.
blue-card question. – i have a short question. what are you doing? that is the question. that was the lady’s question. we know this, we know the stories and we can explain it, but what are we doing to improve it? what are you doing in your capacity? it is not about the european forums. what are you doing? how are you trying to fulfil the european union’s roma strategy for 2012? that is the question. please give a short answer.
madam president! we have to admit with shame that in europe today, it is not good to be a roma. our roma compatriots, who are citizens of the european union with the same rights as any of us in this room, face constant and ongoing discrimination in their daily lives. segregation in education, forced displacement, discrimination in the labor market and in health care. despite the numerous declarations, resolutions and conferences in the european framework strategy, the situation of roma in europe has remained essentially unchanged in recent years. this is why we need not further debate but political will and decisive action everywhere in europe. the elimination of roma settlements, quality and opportunity-creating education, scholarships, social care, job creation, training programmes and above all, clear and strong action against racism, anti-roma and discrimination.
i have to say, madam president, i'm saying this in your native language now because it's absolutely discriminatory what you've done. i have just asked a question about the 'blue card' and all those who came later and spontaneously signed up from the left have been accepted and i have not been allowed to speak. i think that's terrible. that's too bad, because that's totally against the thing we're trying to do today.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that hungary was the first to address the social problems of the roma and to develop a long-term strategy. as part of this, in 2012 the teaching of roma culture and history was included in the national curriculum. a program to prevent roma girls from dropping out of school was created two years ago. the programme to increase the employment of roma women has provided vocational training to over 1100 roma women, increased employment of roma women by 12%, and created a government call for proposals to support roma cultural events. i think that the hungarian successes speak for themselves and are an example to follow.
mr president, as a representative of the movement for the betterment of hungary, my position in the debates in the european parliament on the activities of the hungarian government has always been determined by the specific case. so i always rejected the mandatory quota and defended the hungarian migration policy. i did it here in this room on december 2, 2015, as the only one of all the parties, including fidesz. the right is opposed to george soros, rejects the ideology of the open society. however, the government's intention to shut down the ceu is to use a power vacuum that would create an unacceptable precedent. we are not waiting for a solution from the european union, but from the hungarian constitutional court, which is why jobbik representatives in hungary have made it possible for the board to decide on the issue. the real solution for them, however, is next year's election, when we will face this cynical, power-abusing, corrupt system.
mr. president, we hungarians are a legendary nation of freedom and autonomy, and when we hear the word "freedom", our hearts leap. so it's good to mobilize for things like freedom of education, freedom of science, or even freedom of speech, freedom of the press. what is more, it is a shame that they want to use this as a bargaining chip to sell us mass migration, which i ask you to understand that we do not want, we reject. and i ask you to listen to your fellow citizens at home to this shameful trick, that they put, for example, in the resolution now being planned, alongside the words calling for freedom, the forced acceptance of refugees by migrants - who are called refugees - in hungary. and be on the lookout at home for people with good intentions who might be out demonstrating for civil liberties. there's the freedom of education, our hearts are pounding, but right next to it is the other sign: "take down the fence!" this is how they want to, please, lead us with a commodity link, and it's a shameful thing. freedom, human dignity, human rights yes, but mass migration no!
i have to say, i sympathize with you to a certain extent. it must be difficult to live as you do, in constant fear, with enemies everywhere. you're afraid of democracy, of open societies, of debate, of the european union, of welcoming refugees, of civil society, of independent media, of free education, of everything that europe was built on after world war ii. and in fear, not only does it systematically erode the freedoms, but it betrays, ignores the most fundamental interests of hungarian society. you want to make hungary a second russia. but the protesters waving european flags in the streets of budapest do not want that. you want to stop brussels, but you have to be stopped. because your illiberal democracy is built on hate and fear, on enmity, on lies, on corruption, on theft of public funds. but now you and your policies have reached an impasse, with your own party members no longer giving you their unqualified support. and we will never, ever let down the european hungary!
i would like to thank you, mr timmermans and mr manfred weber. this is not the first time we've had a dispute over hungary, and i'm afraid it won't be the last. with the ceu act, the ngo act and the 'stop brussels' campaign, viktor orbán has crossed new boundaries after the many he has crossed in recent years. all this, basically, with the commission grumbling and the european people's party actively defending it. you may have thought that the commission's more active opposition would only aggravate the situation. and inside the people's party, they can still moderate viktor orbán more effectively than outside. but you have no rights, you have responsibilities. the commission's passivity has only encouraged this man, and the people's party's defense has not moderated, but legitimized, everything he does. you have also betrayed the europeans who believe that europe is not just a single market but also a community of values, rights and principles that can be expected and enforced. it's time to show them you're on their side.
madam president, distinguished colleagues, distinguished house. before my mandate as a member of parliament, i worked as a teacher at the transcarpathian hungarian university, a higher education institution that was constantly threatened by restrictions and closure. and yet it wasn't even headline news in the new york times. so i can see clearly that the hype around ceu is not about academic freedom, but about a double standard. where are you when it comes to fighting for minority language educational institutions in europe, so why don't you raise your voice that a fundamental freedom is being eroded? the amendment of the hungarian higher education act, as we have emphasized many times, is not aimed at closing the ceu, but at clarifying the legal background of education, which is the right of all member states. the law has been amended over the years, and the errors revealed by the education bureau have been protested by ceu alone. i don't understand why this is happening. why is it necessary to stir up mass and media hysteria, why can't the ceu also strive for a calm dialogue? please, don't just take one side of this issue, but listen to both sides.
respected european democrats and against them prime minister orbán! shame and betrayal! viktor orbán, the 1989 soros scholar, would hide in shame if he saw today. because today's viktor orbán has betrayed all the values, all the young democracy and the dreams that he represented then. but it's a much bigger problem that we are ashamed of hungarians, that we have to stand here because of you on the shame of europe, because this is treason. this is treason, mr. prime minister, no matter what the lying media, funded by you, publicly funded, is writing back home. 28 years ago, you participated in the destruction of the stalinist state party. and now he's building a new nationalist state party of the putin type, by destroying european values. we don't know what happened. one thing's for sure, we have to do something about it. i ask you, fellow citizens of europe, to examine the situation of the hungarian rule of law, but not to punish hungary for the time being. don't punish him, because it's not the hungarian people, but viktor orbán who deserves punishment. we will overthrow this government at home and bring hungary back to european values.
madam president, today's attack, which has hit the prime minister and hungary, is a direct result of our clear and strong position on the migration crisis. as we've been saying for two years, it's the first and only one in europe. and now it's all in the main documents of the european people's party. the people's party migration strategy, as the founding document adopted by the maltese congress, states that the only way to guarantee the safety of our citizens is to protect europe's external borders and to decide who and how many we let into europe. separating the real refugees from the economic migrants, tackling the migration crisis at its roots, not pulling it out, but encouraging it with european policies. it is these strong positions that lead us to argue so unfairly again today. but i think that the hungarian people, with our prime minister at the forefront, want nothing more than all european citizens: to live our everyday lives in a safe, strong, prosperous europe. so it's our responsibility and our duty to make sure that people feel safe. and i would just add that it's sad and shameful that verhofstadt's obscenity and lecturing are even applauded by colleagues.
in writing. the prime minister of hungary came to us, the european parliament, to personally argue in order to answer some of the questions on the agenda that affect hungarian democracy. on the one hand, its presence is a specific gesture of respect for the european parliament and the european union, since it is actively involved in eu-related debates. i would remind you that there are heads of government of member states who, despite parliament's express request, have not yet appeared before the plenary session. the european parliament's group leader, manfred weber, also mentioned the leaders of the member states belonging to the socialist party family who should be held accountable to the european parliament for their offshore and corruption scandals. on the other hand, the hungarian prime minister did not make a lecturing or hypocritical speech, but rather presented concrete arguments in his speech and made it clear several times that the hungarian government is ready for a constructive and fair dialogue with the european commission and the european parliament. it is the only democratic way of settling disputes in europe today. it is therefore unacceptable that some members - particularly the leaders of the socialist and liberal groups - should take it upon themselves to lecture anyone, especially a prime minister of a member state, on the rules of democracy. the european parliament has always been about the strength of the argument, not the argument of force. please respect that at all times.
in writing. mr. orbán, you are a scoundrel. a thief who stole the money and the future of the hungarian people. during his seven years in office, everything and almost everyone in the country has gotten worse. four million hungarians are destitute, and 50,000 hungarian children go hungry every day. half a million people have already fled the country, and those who stay at home are struggling with broken health care, poverty, monthly government payments. meanwhile, you're waging war on everyone who doesn't tolerate your thieving, putin-friendly world. mr. orban, please! it is not the civilians, not the refugees, not brussels that are the enemies of the hungarians, but you! you, who have become fabulously wealthy in recent years. your nephew, butcher lorrinc, has gone from a small gas-repair business to one of the richest men in the country in a few years. we know that the butcher's property is actually yours. you stole every forint of this fortune from the hungarian people. the thief goes to jail, and the stolen money goes back to the hungarians. we can promise you one thing, mr. orbán, something you would deny your opponents: a fair trial. an impartial and independent court will judge you before long!
in writing. – those who defend the ceu in this debate in the name of university autonomy should be aware of how this autonomy works in practice. obviously, autonomy functions within the law. each member state has its own legal order governing universities. second, accreditation, research assessment, teaching quality measurement are all directed by the state and set often stringent limits to university autonomy. third, the internal administration of universities imposes strict limits on the freedom of what can be taught. the criterion is student numbers. if there aren’t enough, the course will be cut. fourth, research, especially in the natural sciences, is heavily subsidised by the relevant private sector, again a restriction on autonomy. finally, if a university is supported by taxpayers’ money – and almost all are – then that too is a limit to autonomy. after all, the duty to be accountable functions as a restriction. so don’t be carried away by romantic ideas of university autonomy. it has never existed.
in writing. in a european political public already somewhat entangled in the orbán regime's series of steps against democracy and civil rights, the latest attacks on the ceu and civil society organisations, as well as the anti-eu campaign under the umbrella of the 'national consultation', have provoked such widespread outrage that the political situation in hungary has had to be put back on the agenda of this week's european parliament plenary. although i had not previously seen much point in the ep providing a european platform for orbán's demagoguery without concrete measures, this time the outrage was on a par with the very wide political spectrum in which meps condemned the fidesz government. unfortunately, however, mr orbán's presentation suggests to me that today's plenary debate, as on previous occasions, will not achieve its otherwise praiseworthy and respectable objective of bringing hungarian political relations back onto a democratic, humane and european path. for my part, i tried to make my colleagues understand that the systematic erosion of basic democratic rights in hungary is aimed at the unlimited power of the orbán regime, so that no external or internal political or legal factors can limit the pervasive corruption mechanism it operates.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, i would like to argue with you a little bit, because according to all the studies and economic data, it is not the rich countries that can afford high levels of social benefits, but it is precisely because some countries have become rich that they have provided high levels of social benefits. my question is, did you recognize this connection?
in writing. i have to express a number of reservations about the proposal put forward by the european commission, despite the fact that the objective to be achieved is very desirable: an inclusive, social europe. however, the sovereignty of the member states and the principle of subsidiarity itself must be taken into account in this particular case: the member states know best how to best achieve these objectives. i can illustrate this with many measures already implemented in hungary, of which we can be proud: 90 percent of young children eat free three times a day, and disadvantaged children receive free meals during school breaks. the minimum wage has also made significant progress over the past 25 years. hungary is also a leader in terms of institutional placement and long-term care, as the relocation of people with disabilities (3500-4000) from large rural institutions to smaller housing units is also planned for the near future. as it is essential to take responsible account of hungary's open economy and competitiveness, the only prerequisite for further stable and predictable development is thoughtful, secure progress. we will certainly be partners in this process.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words about the european year of cultural heritage. today, cultural heritage is increasingly valued, as we live in a world of increasing cultural diversity. it not only helps to preserve our identity, but also boosts the economy's performance, stimulates investment and contributes to job creation. this is one of the reasons why the initiative is so important, as it draws attention to the past and values of our continent, thus strengthening our common european identity. the amendments to the proposal for a decision of the parliament and of the council on the european year of cultural heritage are of particular importance, since they clarify and complement the text proposed by the commission. for example, the involvement of civil society is essential to bring the initiative closer to european citizens. in addition to the co-financing by the member states, the specific heading to be established in the general budget is of paramount importance for the adequate financing. the position of the committee on budgets on financial compatibility and the proposal of the regi committee should of course also be taken into account. the abovementioned amendments were drafted in accordance with this. in the light of all this, i believe that it is of paramount importance that 2018 be the european year of cultural heritage and that this can be effectively achieved within the framework outlined above. thank you for listening.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, let me say thank you to all of the institutions who cooperated during the discharge procedure, including the european external action service, the european court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european ombudsman and the agencies. we had very successful cooperation and sometimes we had long discussions on several issues but, in the end, i believe we were able to find good compromises and good explanations for the questions raised. during the procedure, in addition to examining whether expenditure by the institutions was in line with european regulations, we also concentrated on some specific issues, including transparency, openness of the institutions, access to information, public access to documents in the institutions, and also the whistleblower protection rules of the institutions. the second issue we concentrated on was how aligned spending is with the principle of performance-based budgeting, which was already mentioned beforehand. it is not only compliance with the rules, but also whether the outcome of expenditure is efficient and effective. we believe that the institutions are performing better and better regarding this. we also tried to have a look at the gender balance in the institutions and anti-harassment protection. finally, we believe that it is important to check the emas performance of the institutions and, as my colleague bart staes already mentioned, how the funds are used for co2 offsetting and the fight against climate change. regarding specific institutions, starting with the european external action service, i think the most important issue here is to make the distinction between economic diplomacy and simple economic lobbying, and how to provide transparency for the latter. we do not have the answers yet but we had very constructive discussions with vice-president mogherini in this sense. some questions were also raised regarding some building buying by the eeas in some countries. i believe that finally we have some answers. not everything was clarified but i hope that, since i regard the discharge procedure as a long procedure, in the long run we can set up a transparent and accountable system for the control of this issue as well. regarding the european court of justice, i have to mention that at the very beginning there were some misunderstandings or conflicts between the court of auditors and the court of justice as to how the court of auditors obtain access to some information within the court of justice. i am happy that finally – and i hope that we contributed to this procedure – we could find a compromise and the court of auditors and the court of justice agreed on how to settle this problem. i agree with mr staes that the court of auditors is an extremely important institution for the budgetary control committee (cont). we have very good cooperation and i would like to emphasise the high level of cooperation and the constructive discussions with the court of auditors. finally, regarding the agencies, we greens continued with the push for greater independence and transparency in the work of the eu agencies and have strongly opposed conflicts of interest of the agencies’ management or external associates to limit the influence of the lobbyists and the corporate sector. we hope that, in the long term, we can improve the performance of some... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i consider this year's closing procedure to have been a successful joint effort. i would like to thank the european court of auditors, its president and its staff for a very well-written report which has made the work of each of the european parliament's rapporteurs easier. i'd like to congratulate the reporters on their careful and cooperative work. of course, i don't think the results, they're some kind of unnecessary self-praise. thanks to the fruitful work, we were able to reveal many errors, many inaccuracies in the final counting procedure. it is important, however, that this year may be one in which all the institutions, in addition to the council, may be discharged. this shows that the european union institutions have been working in a responsible way, using the money of european taxpayers in a responsible way. i think it is particularly important, as regards the final report of the european parliament, that it calls the final report what is unfortunately clear, clear and serious as far as the actions of the former president of the european parliament are concerned. i find it unacceptable that the socialist group is proposing to delete these findings by means of a motion for a resolution. the people's party is clearly in favour of naming the mistakes made in accordance with the majority opinion in the committee on budgetary control, even if the former president of the european parliament is responsible for these mistakes.
the rapporteur. mr president, at the end of the debate, i would just like to thank you again for the arguments you have made in the debate and for the comments that may have escaped my attention as rapporteur on the institutions. let me make a comment on the discharge for the european parliament. president schulz has been talking a lot about this, but i would like to draw attention to certain aspects of this parliamentary discharge from a different angle. and this is that not only the transparency of the president of parliament, but also the transparency and correctness of the expenditure of the members is an important thing, and i think it has been a recurring topic for years, how transparent the general reimbursement of members is as public expenditure, how transparent it is to the public. and the same problem that's been going on for years is the question of the deputy's side jobs, second jobs, paid assignments. i think that parliament should set an example in this matter and that members should be as transparent as possible about their own expenditure and their own paid jobs. we would then be in a position to legitimately point to other institutions and to demand from them, in a truly credible way, that they respect and implement the same principles of transparency.
mr president, i consider this report to be historic, stating at last that the purpose of the land is to provide for the lives and livelihoods of the local population and to produce local healthy food. it also states that it is not intended to be, as many people think, a speculative asset, a capital for profit maximisation, which is unfortunately encouraged by the european union's support system. i ask commissioner oettinger and the rapporteur if they can go further and take away the consequence of this, namely that the chapters on the free movement of capital must be changed, that is to say, the part of the accession treaty of my country, hungary, which says that arable land is part of the free movement of capital and that we are therefore forced to give our arable land to foreigners, must be changed. i'll wait for your answer, thank you very much.
mr president, as the hungarian representative of romania, i rise on behalf of the european citizens of hungary and its neighbouring countries, who have been forced to suffer waiting times of between 2,5 and 3 hours at the borders as a result of the tightening of border controls since the introduction of regulation (eu) no 458/2017. we consider the application of the restrictions to be pointless and unnecessary. they deprive citizens of one of the union's greatest achievements, the freedom of movement. it is as if he wants to punish the citizens of the union and their relatives abroad for the crimes of illegal immigrants. we ask that parliament and the council withdraw their decree or otherwise take steps to remedy the humiliating border crossing situation of the communist era.
mr president, in connection with the eu accession process in serbia, i organised a public forum in the town of zenta, which has an 80% hungarian population. i signed a contract with the zentai city hall for the prepayment of the room rental fee, and then on the day of the forum i received a completely shocking administrative stamped decision to ban this forum, citing that such a program is suitable for disturbing public safety, peace and order, and public morality. i feel that not only my rights have been violated, but that the european parliament has also been disgraced. i therefore ask the parliament, and the commission for information, to look into this case and to see whether serbia, with this type of bolshevik rule of law, with total voluntarism instead of the rule of law, is fit for accession to the union. i found that it was not only because the human rights of the hungarian people, the national communities, were being trampled on. in proof of this, i would like to present both the president and the commission representative with a detailed, factually based report and a photo album, both in hungarian.
the following agenda item is reserved for the following reports: report by georgios kyrtsos, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report on the financial activities of the european investment bank (2016/20099(ini)) - (a8-0121/2017); report by nedzhmi ali, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report on the audit of the financial activities of the european investment bank for 2015 (2016/2098(ini)) - (a8-0161/2017)
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 27 april 2017.
madam president, it is a great pleasure that the european union has declared 2018 the european year of cultural heritage, but there is something bizarrely tragicomic about the fact that while a wagonload of money is being spent on this purpose, it is decided to bring the masses of migrants into the european union and continuously humiliate the few countries that are resisting it. no one needs to explain, just walk around here, how europe's cultural heritage is threatened by mass migration. i can promise you this in the name of the majority of hungarian people: hungary will enthusiastically support this european year of cultural heritage and we will continue to protect european cultural heritage by protecting our borders, the borders of our own state and the borders of the european union.
madam president, this european banking authority is advertising itself as the one responsible for consumer protection in relation to banks and customers. i'm not a financial expert, but as a lawyer, i don't appreciate your work when i see that somehow this horrible, fraudulent so-called foreign currency credit structure could have been created, among others in hungary. i see that today, people are being evicted daily in brutal conditions, and tens of thousands of families are terrified of eviction. where is the european banking authority? these people are still consumers, they're still customers of banks, or they were customers, so come out and help these people, protect their rights. and where is the european banking authority then, the president is well aware of these photographs which i am handing over, people are being rushed to ferihegyi airport, in a vulnerable situation, in a hurry, looking for their flight, three banks are represented there, and there are unwritten, unthinking commitments to people. i'm asking the president to take action on this matter.
madam president, i was very pleased to vote for this report on cropland theft. clearly, there are two forms. one of my colleagues, i think, the bulgarian representative, can confirm this: the plundering of land by foreigners. the solution here, as i said in the debate, is to take land out of the free flow of capital, because it's not about speculative capital, it's about the livelihood of local farmers. the other form of land grabbing is the fraudulent acquisition of land by local oligarchs through fraudulent tenders. and here you have a double obligation. one is the action of the judiciary, the local judiciary, the prosecutors should take up the work in this regard. and the other is that this is an area where the european union should step in, because these people are getting huge hectare-based subsidies, eu public money.
i shall conclude by giving the reasons for the vote.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms pitera. we had excellent cooperation during the whole discussion period, and i think that finally the outcome of this discussion is really an excellent report, which i recommend to the parliament to support. it is important that in the committee on budgetary control there was a broad consensus on the report. it is a good sign that the different political groups coming with different political backgrounds could agree on the most important issues regarding the protection of the financial interest of the european union. there are several points in the report, and i would like to point out only four important issues from my perspective. first, as was already mentioned, is the question of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). i agree that it is an important progress and development that finally we could agree and that as an enhanced cooperation the eppo could start its work within two or three years. on the other hand, we have to keep in mind that this enhanced cooperation at the moment consists of 17 member states, and that some of those member states who are the most critical, from the point of the view of the spending of the eu funds, are not part of the eppo, and this raises the issue: how can we put pressure on those member states where we can experience a high level of corruption, if they are not part of the eppo? from this perspective i believe that the strengthening of olaf competences is something we have to do to have the rights and the competences to better control the spending of eu funds in the member states. the second issue is the anti-corruption report of the european commission. this was published three years ago, and it was promised that every two years we will see an anti-corruption report. now the commission shelved this anti-corruption report: this is exactly the wrong message to send to the member states and those who are in the corruption business if the european commission is not doing its best to mop up corruption in the european union. the third issue is the whistle-blower protection. it was already mentioned that whistle-blowers can contribute a lot to protect the financial interests of the european union. we have to help them and protect them on the european level, not only on the member state level. finally, if the investigative journalism is in line and in parallel with whistle-blowers, investigative journalists can do a lot. thank you for the rapporteur to support this idea. we need to support and protect investigative journalism in the eu.
mr president both the report we are discussing and the debate here in the plenary give the impression to the citizens who are watching us that there are also some very clever crooks in the european union, and that there are governments and authorities in the member states who are trying to fight them, whether they like it or not, and sooner or later they will find a solution. i am missing the special category in the negotiation whereby a government of a member state, by imprisoning authorities operating under the governments of the member states, systematically builds up a system, produces money-spending and taxation practices that are essentially designed to serve the criminal actions of that government. this is the case in hungary, for example, where a barrage of legislation currently ensures that no one outside the immediate family or close circle of friends of prime minister viktor orbán can access the benefits of various development projects funded by the european cohesion funds, for example. obviously these governments - because i think there are more of them - are also opposed to the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, because they would rather, in order to protect their own criminal, corrupt interests, by taking advantage of the legal problems of other member states, stay out of this special form of european cooperation. i ask the commission to pay attention to the context in which member state governments unfortunately capture authorities and thus deliberately cause damage by committing crimes to the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. the european parliament's committee on budgetary control prepares its annual report on the fight against fraud in parallel with the closure of the accounts. the report shall outline the efforts made to protect the financial interests of the community. it calls on the member states to strengthen cooperation and control in the detection of fraud cases, which are essential for more effective action. one of the biggest problems remains the smuggling of high-tax goods, which causes a serious loss of revenue for the eu and member states' budgets. customs and border controls at the external borders of the union need to be strengthened in order to combat smuggling and fraud more effectively. the report also shows that statistics based on the number of cases of fraud and irregularities reported by member states can often be distorting and that it is therefore essential to distinguish clearly between errors and fraud. stresses the role of the european anti-fraud office in protecting the financial interests of the european union, but regrets that the average duration of investigations carried out by olaf continues to increase. i supported the report in committee and in the plenary vote.
madam president, please. my fellow citizens! in the context of the questions put to the commission, i would like to point out that it is necessary to assess how the technological and innovation environment will affect the recognition of qualifications. let us not forget that, for all its faults, the european union is one of the most balanced regions in the world. why is that important? the integration of migrants from outside the eu, often without even a basic qualification, into the labour market may take many years, even a decade, according to un data if we consider the lack of language skills. to give you an example, a technician in a north african country was able to learn his trade on machines that represented technology that was decades old. the qualifications of this person cannot be practically equated with those of a european professional. as technology advances at a faster pace, these questions are becoming more and more real. we can't make a political issue out of this. i therefore support in particular the amendments which protect the high quality of qualifications. this is a fundamental interest. we need to strengthen the european union's competitiveness in the future.
in writing. the eqf is a common european reference framework linking the qualifications systems of different countries. this framework acts as a kind of translation tool, making qualifications acquired in different countries and education and training systems in europe more readily and mutually understandable. it has two main objectives: to promote lifelong learning and to promote mobility between citizens and between countries. experience so far shows that member states are not sufficiently committed and, despite their commitments, there is still a lack of transparency of qualifications and a low recognition rate of foreign qualifications. to that end, the eqf requires continuous development and adjustment, and should be supported and improved by regular monitoring, in particular as regards its user-friendliness, interoperability and transparency. i therefore support the member states' commitment to implement and use the programme effectively in order to ensure its success. the effective functioning of the edf will help sectors and individuals to make the most of the opportunities offered by the internationalisation of qualifications; it will also have an impact on education and training systems, the labour market, industry, trade and citizens. the european union should make it possible for everyone, regardless of age or status, to make their skills and competences, including those acquired through voluntary activity, more visible and to promote them in a clear and accessible way, especially in cross-border areas.
mr president there have been several different figures, several thousand million tonnes, over the course of this debate, but let's face it, the food wasted in europe is expressed in euros, and experts estimate that it amounts to 140 billion euros a year that we throw away in the form of food. this is about the same size as the annual budget of the european union itself, so it's an insane amount. but there is a phenomenon i would like to draw your attention to, which is in hungary, my country, where, despite social decline, food waste is increasing. and the reason for that is probably that poor people can only afford to buy food that is very perishable, perishable food. i wanted to draw attention to the fact that social status also plays a role in food waste.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the figures for food waste are staggering, especially when you consider how many millions of people are malnourished or starving today. i believe that the european union, as one of the richest and most prosperous societies in the world, has a moral and political responsibility to reduce the enormous amount of food that is thrown away every year. in view of all this, the report of the committee on the environment is very important and timely. one of the key objectives of the decision adopted today is to facilitate the work of civil and religious organisations involved in food donation, as the donation of undelivered food throughout the supply chain not only significantly reduces food waste but also helps those in need. i am very pleased that the plenary report contains my amendment to encourage the use of the funds provided by the european union's food aid programme, the fead, to deliver surplus food. in many regions, particularly those in disadvantaged situations, the biggest challenge is to get existing foodstuffs to those in need and to set up and operate the appropriate logistics. it is also necessary to promote good practice in the member states to exclude the liability of the donor for food donated in good faith and fit for consumption at the time of donation, taking full account of food safety rules.
madam president, my dear officer. first of all, i welcome the positive decision of the european council on the visa waiver for ukraine. the visa waiver is a positive gesture on the part of the eu and will hopefully inspire ukraine to implement effective reforms. ukraine borders seven countries and its gateway to the eu is the westernmost county, transcarpathia, which borders four eu member states. a large part of the traffic to the union passes through it, but the border crossers are already overloaded, their infrastructure is outdated and there are few of them. thus, despite the visa-free regime, it will not be easy for citizens to enter the european union. in addition to visa-free travel, it is therefore essential to develop border infrastructure and areas, open new border crossings, modernise the rail and road system and connect it to international traffic. it is important to end the long waits at border crossing points. citizens with valid travel documents should be provided with decent travel conditions when entering the european union. mobility is a fundamental principle of the european union and the eu needs to be provided with effective technical and financial assistance to facilitate it.
madam president, since 2015, the european union has been faced with its greatest challenge to date: population migration, which threatens european culture, european identity. and in this situation, the commission still maintains that the only issue that is important to it is the mandatory distribution of refugees among member states. who's the fugitive? this parliament, by adopting a report, has made it clear that it is just as right to welcome migrants who come in the hope of a better life as those who are fleeing political persecution. how do you want to stop illegal immigration? what? what? they want to expand legal immigration. in this situation, it is natural that there are countries like hungary that do not accept this, do not want to follow the path of building so-called parallel societies and reject the quota, which i myself agree with.
madam president, please. the protection of people fleeing war and persecution is an obligation under international law to which member states are subject. the relocation of refugees is therefore not only an expression of european solidarity but also of shared responsibility. this is not something that brussels is forcing on countries, but something that the member states themselves have undertaken. we cannot simply shift the responsibility to the member states on the external borders. if they have to carry the burden alone, their asylum system could collapse in an emergency. the result is human suffering and political turmoil. if we want order and security, we need a strong and solidary european asylum system. if we do not do this, schengen and the whole european project will be in danger. of course, it is possible to lie for political gain that the union wants to let everyone in without checks, but we know that this is not true. the relocation system also contributes to ensuring that only those asylum seekers who are genuinely in need of international protection enter europe. of course, reality is of no interest to those who seek to gain or maintain power through the incitement of hatred and fear. they don't have solutions, but they do everything they can to prevent others from implementing them. but lying demagogues are doomed to fail. we expect all member states to do their duty and support this solution without reservation.
madam president, officer, i have to go. hungary has from the outset taken the position that relocation cannot be compulsory and has therefore challenged this at the court of justice of the european union. at the same time, 23 member states voted today for a mandatory quota. yet, in a year and a half, only 18,000 migrants out of 160,000 were relocated. this demonstrates the inadequacy of mandatory quotas and confirms that any allocation can only be voluntary. the immigrant resettlement program without a cap on numbers currently under discussion and the penalty that is in the offing are also unacceptable. this is not the only way to put the principle of solidarity between member states into practice. solidarity can also be expressed through border protection, police cooperation and humanitarian programmes. hungary has so far spent some eur 900 million on border protection and the hungarian government is continuously expanding its humanitarian engagement in the middle east. mandatory resettlement is seen as an invitation to migrants and an incentive to smugglers. so as long as we allow hundreds of thousands of people to enter europe unchecked, as long as we do not separate economic migrants from genuine refugees outside the borders of the union, any future mechanism based on mandatory migration quotas or similar will be counterproductive and unsuitable to address the problem.
mr president globalization is a historical process that cannot be stopped, but it can be controlled, regulated, and even controlled. what is needed is not a senseless anti-globalization, but an adaptation based on european values. there is no doubt that globalization has many winners. but let's talk about the losers. people who feel that in this changed world, they're losing everything that was important to them, their jobs, their social standing, their place in the world. and that's why we need to shape globalization so that it's not just an opportunity for some, but for all. the situation of people who are already disadvantaged and have lost their jobs should be actively helped, for example through targeted support, training, social care. and above all, we must firmly and clearly oppose the populist policies which, by exploiting people's fears, are trying to lead europe back into the impasse of nationalism and economic protectionism.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. in recent years, right-wing governments have failed to make globalization work for the people. so you could say that right-wing governments have simply been defeated by globalization, they have let people down. this is especially true in hungary. now these governments and parties are trying to campaign that they can protect people from the harmful effects of globalization. do we believe them? i don't think he did. we need governance in both the european union and hungary that is truly able to tame globalization. it can stop the export of jobs, the dumping of cheap products. we need policies that can eliminate the worst byproduct of globalization: social inequality. but border closures, wire fences, and protective tariffs are not the answer. these may give a false sense of security, but in reality they only make matters worse. will the wire fence stop cheap chinese goods or reduce our dependence on russian gas? i don't think he did. we simply have to be better than the chinese or the russians. we need innovation, a knowledge society, education, enterprises, not factory farms. it doesn't happen overnight. the traditionally strong hungarian grey stock is there, it's up to us what we do with it.
mr president, as a result of the war that has been going on for six years now, there are currently 13.5 million people in need of humanitarian assistance in the country, including several million internally displaced persons, and another 5 million syrian refugees who have been taken in by neighbouring states and countries in the wider region. the european union and its member states are at the forefront of humanitarian assistance in syria. at the same time, i am pleased to say that my country, hungary, is also an active participant in this support policy, paying special attention to helping persecuted christian communities. the only way to achieve lasting political results in the region is for the united states and russia to reach an agreement and cooperate in the pursuit of a peaceful solution. it is in the common interest of the parties concerned, of europe and of the world as a whole, that the russia-us agreement should be established. the eu strategy, drawn up with the participation of the european parliament, can make a decisive contribution to the long-awaited solution and reconciliation. the union must also play a leading role in ensuring that the ethnic and religious communities displaced return to their homelands as soon as possible and that the reconstruction of a country that has been bled to death and reduced to rubble begins.
madam president, dear colleagues, what we are talking about today is not a question of religiosity. the elimination of christians from the middle east is much more of a human rights and security issue. in egypt the coptic community enjoys great support from president sisi, but even so it is extremely difficult to counter jihadism. in iraq, however, the christians will clearly disappear within a very short time. even if isis is on the defensive, there is no guarantee of security at all. the eu is doing a lot to provide aid, but individual member states also have their homework. if the international community misses the opportunity to help christians return to their homes, tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands, of families may decide to leave iraq for ever. eu financial support, including development and echo programmes, is inaccessible to religious minorities and historical churches. the result is that affected communities are left out of the eu’s humanitarian projects. through the activities of afet and deve, we must continue efforts to involve the relevant organisations as partners in the european union aid and reconstruction projects. european politicians, let’s wake up, really wake up. we have been given a chance, so we should use it.
madam president, following the bloody attack on coptic christians on easter sunday, the jesuit father henri boulad condemned not only radical political islam but also, among others, the democratic west, which, together with islamists, has coined the term "false islamophobia" to silence all criticism of islam. father boulad also accuses european leaders of contributing to the collapse of a precious cultural and civilizational past in the name of multicultural ideology, unbridled globalism and unbridled openness. i welcome the debate in the european parliament today on the situation of christianity in the middle east. our endangered christian brothers in syria and iraq rightly expect that we will not forget them, that we will not abandon them. this event is the manifestation of the awakening conscience of europe. the union and the foreign service are also stepping up their support for the hundreds of thousands of members of christian communities who are suffering from religious-ethnic cleansing and brutal genocide. in this struggle, special thanks and recognition are due to the human rights organization open doors, which defends persecuted christians, and the european people's party, which defends them, and not least the hungarian government office created to help them.
in writing. syria is no longer a symbol of the peaceful coexistence of different religions, although it was for centuries. i recently had the pleasure of hearing the story of father jacques mourad, who served for 15 years as prior of the 5th-century monastery of al-qaryatayn in syria. this place has been a model of peaceful coexistence between christian and muslim communities for centuries. each year they remembered together st. elias, the patron saint of the monastery, who would rather die a martyr's death than deny his faith. it's all in the past. after 15 years of church and community building, father jacques mourad was kidnapped by isis fighters, the monastery was ransacked, and his holy tomb was looted. the priest was held by isis for four months, a small bathroom served as his cell. he was beaten daily with the most varied psychic terror, but he never gave up his faith, his smile. in his darkest hours, he had a vision that said, "you're coming to the light". this light shines before him now, after his release, as he personally takes the news of the syrian christian communities, whose lives are in danger on a daily basis, to the world. i thought this story was important because it shows that the threat to christians in the middle east is not an old legend, not part of ancient history, but it is happening right now, right before our eyes. four out of every five victims of religious persecution worldwide are christians. we must use every tool at our disposal to protect the christian communities in the middle east.
madam president, please. we all know that brexit was a victory for populism, demagoguery and lies. in this house too, there are representatives who have actively participated in deceiving the electorate into believing that selfish national interests are more important than common european values. and of course, to see how deeply this campaign and this referendum is dividing british society. and that's why i wish for the people who live there to be able to rise above the divisions, because further incitement and hostility will not heal the wounds that have been created. after april 29th, we can see more clearly the principles, the course, the stages of the negotiations. i consider it particularly important to maintain a close partnership with the united kingdom, to preserve the integrity of the single market and the freedoms that go with it. but above all, the situation of eu citizens living and working in the uk and british citizens living in the eu needs to be clarified. they have been living and working in a state of high uncertainty since 23 june 2016. the aim should be to achieve the fullest possible agreement on the various civil, economic and social rights, based on the principles of reciprocity and equal treatment, since if even this continuity of rights cannot be guaranteed, then the ground will be finally removed from all forms of future cooperation.
madam president, please. i do not dispute the principle that the brexit negotiations should not be punitive towards the british. however, it is also necessary to make clear to our own citizens that any anti-integrationist politician and any irresponsible anti-eu political tactics and threats in the eyes of european public opinion have a concrete cost in terms of the historical prospects and economic and political development of the nation concerned. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to another context: namely, that the eu's fundamental principle that the eu institutions must look after the interests of all eu citizens, including the british, is still valid during the brexit negotiations.
in writing. – although it is difficult to forecast the results of the negotiations between the uk and the eu, brexit will definitely allow the uk to reduce ambition in its climate, energy, environment policies – possibly in the form of the targets/standards. or targets remain unchanged, yet the eu cannot exert its enforcement powers anymore, which can result in implementation deficiencies. this is particularly true in the areas of biodiversity, water and waste management, air quality and energy transition. as for the elements of the circular economy, the uk might be reluctant to put in place measures for cutting the use of natural resources, for waste reduction or for better recycling. any steps in this direction would send a bad signal to specific member states who consider some of the eu law too much of a challenge. thus, the erosion of environmental standards in the uk after brexit may have a harmful spill-over effect for other regions of europe. therefore, i call on the commission to give environment policies priority during the negotiations and make sure that environmental and human health considerations play an important role in the future relations between the eu and the uk.
mr president the essence of the principle of subsidiarity is that decisions should be taken closest to the people. in the case of hungary, this should mean that, except in very exceptional situations, it is not the european union that makes the decisions - but i will go further - there are situations when it is not our own state that forces us to make decisions, but we, the hungarian people, raise our heads and take our fate into our own hands. for example, if there is a provision that doctors cannot give interviews to the press without the permission of the ministry or i don't know what authority, then 15 doctors from the hospital in question have to come together and say that we are holding a press conference at 2 o'clock this afternoon, you are talking about appendicitis, you are talking about cancer prevention, you are talking about influenza, and we refuse to accept that we are being forced to do such dictatorial things.
this report continuously emphasises the need for consumer protection in the financial sector. i would be very pleased if instead of the reports that are constantly attacking and condemning hungary, the european union would finally look at the situation of hungarian foreign currency borrowers and see what has happened and how the various western and non-western banks have trampled the european union's consumer protection standards into the mud. we should get on with this. and returning a little to subsidiarity: we should have the same self-esteem, self-awareness that, for example, hungarian judges take much more seriously - whatever pressure they are under from various sides - they start to take seriously the fact that there is, please, the european union directive on consumer protection. that's what we're applying in your case law, we're treating foreign currency borrowers as consumers, not as debtors, as a kind of debt slave. let me deal with this instead of all the other things about hungary.
mr president in the debate i spoke of the hungarian nation, the people's love of freedom. now i would like to mention another of our qualities: our love of country. we are a patriotic people, and this has one or two characteristics that are similar to family love. sometimes we're very unhappy with our family, or we're angry with our family members. but if they're hurt, we'll protect our family. if they're being harmed by outsiders, we stand with our family and our family members. so it's terribly counterproductive for you to do what you're doing. the more they attack, the more they humiliate hungary, the more we stand together in the fact that we must stand with them. the second is that the family is by definition an intimate, closed community. you're trying to force us to let wild aliens into our quasi-home. i'm not a bad person for thinking that i wouldn't want to have 10 or 12 strangers in my own family home.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, mr member of the house, i share your joy and i am very pleased with the results you have listed, but i would like to ask you if you share my concern that there is a service that is still stuck and not working in accordance with the single european market. namely, if i call you from my own country on a mobile phone, it is indeed a foreign call. if i do the same thing from abroad, it's obviously much cheaper, but we're still talking about the same phones. i ask you, do you share my concern that this should be changed?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, officer, i have to go. the protection of the safety of its citizens must be the primary objective of every decision-maker. it is vital that we know who is entering our countries and that is the only way to avoid further tragedies. at the same time, the introduction of checks on the exit and entry of union citizens at schengen borders should not jeopardise the union's greatest achievement: the free movement of union citizens. it is not possible for a waiting time of several hours to develop between two member states at certain border sections, as happened recently for example at the hungarian-croatian or the croatian-slovenian border sections mentioned above. and the summer tourist dump hasn't even started yet. it is becoming increasingly difficult to explain to our citizens in these countries that it is becoming impossible to travel from one member state to another, while uncontrolled masses continue to arrive in europe illegally. this situation needs to be remedied. i therefore ask the commission to take steps to ensure that, while preserving the security of eu citizens, it does not impede the free movement and daily life of our citizens.
madam president, please. i have already pointed out in connection with the debate on the regulation containing the restrictions that a measure which in practice restricts the freedom of movement of our citizens and creates unnecessary inconvenience for them is not really suitable for screening potential terrorists. it creates fear and uncertainty, and in doing so, it reinforces the atmosphere of terror. i am not pleased, but i am reassured by the report that the commission is able to make corrections if necessary in the light of similar findings. of course, i still believe that the safety of the public is our first priority. it is therefore time to put the emphasis on preventive detection, risk analysis and the exchange of information across europe back on the front line in protecting the eu's external borders and fighting terrorism. i am convinced that the european parliament will be ready to provide the necessary political and financial support for this correction, if necessary.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, madam president. i would also like to thank the honourable member for the opportunity to respond. i was pleased to hear that, so i do not want to argue with you, but rather to ask you a question: the concept of 'smart villages' is emerging, and in this context, for example, i would consider it important that every european village should have the possibility of being charged with electricity. okay, but how would you see this as solvable?
madam president, please. i welcome today's debate, but i regret that it has not been brought to the agenda earlier, as it will have little influence on the mobility package to be presented at the end of the month. these days, we are increasingly talking about a multi-speed europe. unfortunately, this multi-speed europe already seems to be happening in transport. a circle of member states is gradually emerging which are introducing similarly structured unilateral measures, thus endangering the functioning of the single internal market. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. this is also the view of the commission, which has initiated the investigation procedure in several cases. this is why the commission's mobility package has high expectations both here in parliament and in the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. this is not an easy task and it is important that the interinstitutional debate on the mobility package should produce solutions that are practical and acceptable to all, as this is the only guarantee that the legislation will be fully implemented. i believe that profit-orientation should not be given a disproportionate role in cohesion policy, because the return on investment and the success of investments in areas such as education or health cannot be measured solely by the measure of profit. the mobilisation of financial instruments is therefore important, but in these areas they cannot replace but only complement grants. experience has shown that regions with persistently high unemployment and low population density have a very low attractiveness for investment. the granting of grants is precisely the way in which it helps to bring regions in such a situation to their feet. it is therefore important in the design of cohesion policy beyond 2020 that an increase in the share of financial instruments does not lead to a reduction in the amount of grants, as this would impede the achievement of the main objective of cohesion policy, namely the elimination of disparities between regions.
in writing. we are living in difficult times: the eu's competitiveness is declining, unemployment is still high, youth unemployment is also causing huge tensions and the migration crisis remains on the agenda. in this period, the term 'social dumping' is increasingly used in the arguments of both the european commission and some western member states, whereas the mobility of european citizens and businesses should not be reduced, but on the contrary, increased. it is important to take into account that the eu's global competitiveness has been declining since the 1990s. what is needed is not a multi-speed europe but improved competitiveness and a truly single market where capital and goods, services and labour can move freely. so we need more transport links, more trade, and more better, cheaper services to keep consumers spending more and creating more jobs. in a multi-speed eu, regional development policy (the continuous upgrading and convergence of objectives) would also be called into question, even though its balancing function was one of the main attractions of accession, as was the single, free internal market. the european commission should therefore, rather than reducing mobility, act against any member state measure restricting the free movement of services in the field of road freight transport.
mr president cohesion policy aims to strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the community and to bring the less developed regions closer together. in 2004, 10 countries, mainly from central and eastern europe, joined the european union. if you were to ask your people now how they feel about whether this catch-up has happened to the extent that they expected, the answer would be no. of course, you can measure regional catch-up in gdp, competitiveness, infrastructure, where there's been progress. but for them, the fundamental question is how their quality of life has changed in 13 years. prices have approached those in western europe, and the wage gap remains. this needs to be addressed at eu level, at decision-making level. if the regional governments do not do this, the people will have one option: the european citizens' initiative. so jobbik for hungary took the lead in one of these initiatives, found partners in six other european union countries, and started an initiative to raise wages, which is also the goal of developed countries, because if the wage gap is so large, the consequence is that people migrate from these countries, and they cause tension there. the commission gave the green light to this initiative two days ago. he acknowledged that there is work to be done at eu level, and we expect that when the one million signatures are collected, the european commission will actually take concrete steps to do this.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there's a debate about who tech support should focus on. basically, it's a government playground. but do you agree, for example, that regional, local and municipal authorities should be able to participate in technical assistance? and i ask this because i think that's what it would take to do, for example, the concept of a smart village.
mr president i believe that profit-orientation should not be given a disproportionate role in cohesion policy, because the return on investment and the success of investments in, for example, education or health cannot be measured solely by the measure of profit. the mobilisation of financial instruments is therefore important, but in these areas they cannot replace but only complement grants. experience has shown that regions with persistently high unemployment and low population density have a very low attractiveness for investment. the granting of grants is precisely the way in which it helps to bring regions in such a situation to their feet. it is therefore important in the design of cohesion policy beyond 2020 that an increase in the share of financial instruments does not lead to a decrease in the amount of grants, as this would impede the achievement of the main objective of cohesion policy, namely the elimination of disparities between regions.
in writing. winning consumer confidence is key to the single market. this is closely linked to the fact that consumers cannot be misled by differences in the quality of the basic components of the same products. the harmonization carried out between member states is aimed precisely at overcoming such obstacles and it is therefore unacceptable that the basic ingredients of the same products show significant differences in quality between the different countries or regions of the union. the explanation that some products, such as coffee, are adapted to the taste of the users is still acceptable. however, the fact that the use of the same brand and packaging of detergents produces clean, fragrant clothes in one country and a lack of efficiency in another is difficult to explain by the different needs of consumers. the fact that second-class goods of inferior quality are being sold at the same or even higher prices on the shelves of the markets of central and eastern european countries is unacceptable and contrary not only to consumer protection rules but also to the principle of the single european internal market, a phenomenon that has been going on for decades. i do not think that the solution is to create a 'nutella police force', but consumers rightly expect the commission to investigate these cases thoroughly and impartially in order to put an end to this phenomenon.
madam president, please. in recent times, we have often debated transport in this parliament, and it is clear from these debates that there is a need to protect transport drivers, to improve their working conditions, but also to apply innovative solutions and to effectively help transport companies, especially smes. without knowing the details of the commission's rules on posting of road hauliers, the fact that lex is treated as a specialist may give rise to confidence. however, it is regrettable that the mobility package was presented late, only at an advanced stage of the revision of the posting directive, as it is necessary to avoid that the general rules of the posting directive tie the hands of legislators during the negotiation of the mobility package. otherwise, legislation may be created that is detached from reality and disregards professional and practical experience. the commission, but also parliament and the council, have a very great responsibility in this respect to find solutions in the interinstitutional negotiations of the coming period which are practical, take account of all the specificities of the transport service and prevent further fragmentation of the transport market, so that the fundamental freedom to provide services can be fully exercised.
madam president, europe is ashamed that more than 70 years after the unimaginable tragedy of the holocaust, anti-semitism is still alive and well and is not only alive but is growing in many member states. that is why we have a moral duty, not just a political one, to do everything possible to combat anti-semitism and to ensure the safety of our fellow jews. it is totally unacceptable that in europe today, anyone is threatened because of their jewish identity or religion. it's disgusting that politicians who claim to be moderate use veiled or sometimes not so veiled anti-semitic clichés, sometimes even here in the european parliament. i support proposing that the ihra definition of anti-semitism be widely used. without it, it is difficult to monitor, to follow, to document the spread of anti-semitism, its manifestations in europe. this definition does not in any way restrict freedom of expression. and perhaps most importantly, it makes it clear that insulting the state of israel is also a form of anti-semitism, because it attacks israel for being a jewish state. at the same time, any criticism of the policies of the current israeli government is not anti-semitic. we must stand not with any israeli government, but with the state of israel and the jewish people. we are bound by european tradition and by the memory of the millions of victims of the holocaust.
in writing. it sounds cliché, but in europe it is a very real, dramatic experience: mass violence and murder begin with words, and the propaganda of hatred and discrimination that poisons social consciousness can lead to tragedies of historic proportions. the increasing prevalence of anti-semitic and racist rhetoric and atrocities in europe requires urgent action by the union and all european democrats. this requires a clear language, a definition of anti-semitism that is interpreted in the same way in public discourse and applied consistently in legal practice, and i am convinced that this decision will prove to be an important contribution to stopping this dangerous process over time. for this reason, the resolution stresses the primary responsibility of political leaders, governments, in combating anti-semitism. the only reason is that there are still european politicians who are not prepared to address voters with extreme racist tendencies by means of their open or coded anti-semitic expressions. a month ago in this very room, at our previous plenary in brussels, viktor orbán did the same thing when he blamed his government for all its troubles on the american billionaire speculator george soros. in eastern and central europe this evokes serious memories, and we understand the anti-semitism that is hidden in such references. according to an interview, this is exactly what vice-president timmermans meant, but his position at the time did not allow him to react to orbán's outrageous remark. but we as meps will not tolerate anti-semitic rhetoric here or anywhere in europe from politicians in charge.
mr. president, i have to ask you... i understand that the idea of unilateral concessions is treated with some reservations by some of my colleagues who fear for the position of european agricultural producers. however, i would point out that this measure has both a principle, a policy and a practical significance, and that it is worth considering them in their interaction. as a representative, i myself am particularly sensitive to the protection of the interests of european agriculture, but in this case the list of ukrainian export products covered by the facilitation was preceded by a genuine impact assessment and can be further strengthened. the draft legislation already provides adequate guarantees to prevent possible market theft, since the commission may intervene at any time in a specific case, either on its own initiative or on the initiative of a member state. in this situation, the european union must be ready and able to express our solidarity with a free, european ukraine in tangible forms, including in this case trade concessions.
in writing. the free trade association with the european union has given ukraine a new opportunity for development. customs liberalisation can expand the current trade relationship between the european union and ukraine. this will open new doors for attracting capital to ukraine and for foreign entrepreneurs, and will open up opportunities for ukraine to cooperate with the european union and its neighbouring regions, and to implement joint cross-border projects. this will create new jobs and economic and infrastructural developments that will improve the living standards of the population. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to ukraine in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance. the opening of trade with the european union requires, first of all, improvements in border infrastructure and logistical and transport conditions. unfortunately, the reforms implemented so far in the country are causing a number of social and economic tensions. it is therefore essential that trade reforms and the economic development of the country take place in parallel. the implementation of the market economy in ukraine and its further integration into the union internal market should be an important objective. economic subsidies, reforms can only have their maximum effect by completely eradicating corruption.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing this joint discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 1 june 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission by ms linnéa engström, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the un high level conference on the promotion of the implementation of sustainable development goal 14 (un ocean conference) (o-000031/2017 b8-0311/2017). the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament.
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128 (5). i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 1 june 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. this june, the united nations will host a high-level conference to advance global ocean governance, which will help to implement sustainable development goal 14. oceans and seas play a central role in our lives and are key to our well-being and future. we know that at the johannesburg summit, the world committed to reducing overfishing by 2015. 31.4% of the world's fish stocks are still overfished. this not only seriously threatens some marine ecosystems, but also poses a serious threat to food security and the economic and social sustainability of coastal communities. in particular, illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing poses a serious threat to fish stocks. the eu under the leadership of the european commission should take a comprehensive approach and convince partner countries to accept that we can effectively tackle illegal fishing. please support the draft ep report which has been tabled and which could point the participants in the un ocean conference in the right direction.
the following agenda item is reserved for the joint debate on the digital europe: report by reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the digitisation of european industry (2016/2271 ((ini)) (a8-0183/2017) and report by michał boni, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the internet connection for growth, competitiveness and cohesion: the european gigabit society and 5g (2016/2305 ((ini)) (a8-0184/2017)
it's a two-card draw. you have outlined a tremendous technological development, which is probably true. however, what do you see as the reason why the digital divide between the european countryside, and in particular between european villages and cities, has grown to an unprecedented extent? and what do you see as the cure?
in writing. - mr president! as a member of the committee on regional development and as a supporter of the opinion drawn up by regi on this subject, i would like to draw attention to the regional aspects of the subject. territorial and social cohesion should also be taken into account in the development of new legislation and in the implementation processes. the digital backlog in less developed rural areas is very high compared to urban areas. statistics show that some regions have a broadband coverage of 28%, which is almost 50% below the average coverage. the benefits of broadband and 5g technology could bridge this digital divide. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. this requires the creation of dedicated financial funds that encourage investment in less developed regions. in addition to territorial cohesion, we must also pay attention to digital cohesion, to ensure a level playing field for european citizens wherever they live in the union.
in writing. - mr president! the events of the past few months have shown us that europe can no longer afford to follow world events with a blind eye and look to the outside for solutions to its problems. we have to take our destiny into our own hands, and we have no choice but to be at the forefront of solving global challenges, so that the world aligns with our solutions. the fourth industrial revolution is happening right before our eyes. new technologies, digitalization, are impacting every level of the economic model we've been used to, and they have the potential to fundamentally reshape the existing wealth relationship. our role in this transformation will define europe's competitiveness and economic strength for decades to come. with a well-founded strategy, we can put the union's economy on a new and stronger footing and return to the forefront of the world. however, such a major transformation presents both opportunities and threats. as the structure of the economy changes, jobs are not only created, they can also be lost. with the right strategy, we can manage this and even expand the workforce, but we have to be able to identify the fundamental forces that are driving the transformation. in hungary, we believe that the development and expansion of technical and it training is key in this situation, as europe currently needs about 180 thousand more it specialists. i think the hungarian example can be exemplary.
mr president, villages across europe, which currently offer very limited opportunities compared to urban life, are threatened by depopulation. this process is already causing serious cultural, social and economic problems, which are only intensifying over time. especially when there are governments in some member states, such as hungary, which seem not to hesitate to steal even the millions received from the union for food packages. the revitalisation of european villages is therefore one of the major challenges of the coming period. i would like to refer to the initiative of the european parliament and the european commission 'smart villages', which aims to revitalise european villages through substantial improvements in the living conditions of rural populations and focuses in particular on young people. internet access, quality education, advanced health care, good transportation and of course access to meaningful jobs. at present, these services are the privilege of the urban population. with a smart approach, we can make our villages not only more livable, but also more innovative.
madam president, following this debate, i see that in all european countries there are very serious problems with regard to freedom of the media. and perhaps it's worth mentioning the lessons for a moment: if and when the european institutions, the guardians of the european values, the european commission, had stepped in at the right time, for example in hungary, when the government controlled the media almost 100%, we might not be here. because if we had an example of the strength of the european union's institutions, we wouldn't have to face our own weaknesses.
mr president, the treaties establishing the european union set out the objective of promoting the development of our peoples, stressing that economic integration must also help raise living standards. the most important tool for this is cohesion policy. the report shows that after 2008, disparities between member states and regions have increased sharply, with social and economic inequalities becoming more acute. the differences are most pronounced in wages. this is the main way in which the people of the countries that joined 13 years ago judge the success or failure of the so-called union project. the wage gap within the union is not good for the developed countries either. millions of people in less developed countries are forced to work in developed countries to earn a living, causing low wages and social tensions. recognising this, jobbik for hungary launched the european citizens' initiative, which aims to raise wages in europe, finding partners in seven countries. the european commission welcomed this initiative, acknowledging its legitimacy and committing itself to initiating legal acts once one million signatures are collected. one important area for this could be a new cohesion policy that supports human resource development and companies that produce high added value, and hence the growth of wages itself.
in writing. cohesion policy is one of the eu's most important policies and an expression of european solidarity. catching up with poorer member states improves the eu's position in global competition, and strengthening social cohesion is a prerequisite for continued european cooperation. however, the implementation of cohesion policy needs to be improved in several respects: some member states receive a sustained amount of cohesion funds equivalent to 2 to 3% of their national income without achieving any progress in catching up with the old member states or reducing territorial and social disparities. these problems seriously threaten the future of cohesion policy. in any event, when planning cohesion policy beyond 2020, these causes should be identified and addressed. according to many studies, one of the most important reasons is elite-driven corruption, which also influences the selection of development goals, and which can only be curbed by a thorough reform of management and control mechanisms and by increasing the proportion of national participation in programmes. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office (eppo) to prosecute crimes against the eu's financial interests will contribute to the fight against corruption involving eu funds in the member states participating in the establishment of the eppo. however, the eppo does not include a number of countries that are serious contributors to the funds. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states, including from the polish authorities, the european parliament, the council of the european union, the european parliament, the european economic and social committee and the european parliament.
in writing. - mr president! the affronte report also acknowledges that the level of overfished fishery resources in the mediterranean is two or three times higher than the maximum sustainable yield. the mediterranean, the cradle of european culture, is threatened with becoming a desert, despite being one of the most biodiverse areas in the world with its 17 000 species. we must also recognise that, in addition to overfishing, the mediterranean is threatened by a number of other factors, such as pollution, changes in coastlines and habitats, and oil and gas exploitation. it is clear from the above that we must gradually give way to environmentally friendly and modernised marine and freshwater fisheries, in addition to fishing. for example, a significant proportion of the salt lakes in hungary are located in natura 2000 areas. these fish farms do not represent any threat to the natural values of these areas. in fact, in many cases it is our closed systems of wetlands that have created and preserved unique associations of aquatic habitats. the future european fisheries policy will therefore have to devote much more eu resources to environmentally friendly aquaculture and fisheries than at present.
mr president, a recent analysis suggests that some 15 000 jobs in the transport sector in hungary could be threatened by restrictions imposed by some western european member states. the last such measure is the restriction introduced by germany on 25 may, which states that the 45-hour rest period cannot be spent in the cab of the vehicle. however, the infrastructure was not in place, as there were not enough protected parking and accommodation spaces to meet the increased demand. the cargo, the vehicle and the fuel are all at risk, but the vehicle left unattended could be used for a potential terrorist attack, and the question of responsibility is not clear. without the creation of preconditions, this does not contribute to safety and improves the conditions of drivers, but gives the impression of a mere protectionist measure. i therefore ask the member states concerned to review their measures and not to penalise foreign carriers until they have created the preconditions for compliance with the provision.
mr president, while the responsible eu leaders keep saying that we can only find a solution to the migration crisis together, they have been unable to tackle the crisis for years and are the main obstacles to a real solution. hungary and its allies offer a real alternative to the eu's flawed immigration policy vis-à-vis brussels - yet they are met with rejection, condemnation and threats. it is a sign of immense political blindness that in its resolution condemning hungary in the midst of a series of brutal terrorist acts that threaten our entire european culture and identity, our parliament - in the person of mr ahmed h. - is taking the side of the terrorists and blackmailing our country with possible sanctions. the responsibility for the crisis situation that has arisen is not hungary's but the eu's migration policy. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i think that in today's world it is very important for all of us that the european institutions take action that makes the citizens themselves feel that something good is happening to them. this is the theme of the day. these labels are more commonly encountered by the european citizen than any other of our policy achievements, but not only this one type of labelling, but also in the world of food there is a european union standardisation of labelling. i think that the smart thing for the future is probably to have labelling methods for food and certain industrial products that are closer to giving consumers a visual orientation in almost every important thing about what they are holding in their hands. and finally, i want to say that our current efforts are not just about saving energy, but also about making the best choice for consumers, which means that eventually we have to take into account the price issue, because the poor people have a much harder time switching to more modern, but more expensive things.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for accepting this question. you mentioned the american president's withdrawal, or rather, i should say, his abrupt withdrawal. i ask you, how worrying is that in your opinion, given that it seems that the business community in america is going way beyond renewable energy?
in writing. the effort sharing regulation, which addresses greenhouse gas emissions outside the eu emissions trading system, is one of the key tools for the european union to meet its paris commitment. in my view, the reduction targets set out in the legislative proposal are sufficiently ambitious and adequately reflect the fair contribution of each member state to the common emission reduction ambitions. at the same time, i think it is important to emphasise that for some countries the target reductions could be better aligned with their pre-2020 emission capabilities. a target setting that is more responsive to early reductions in the pre-2020 scheme would therefore be acceptable, as well-performing member states cannot compensate for these reductions without the possibility of transferring allowances, while less well-performing member states can easily achieve the desired targets by 2020 by transferring essentially worthless allowances due to oversupply. it is also important to ensure that the targets reflect the actual level of development of each member state.
mr president, in the last few months, almost a year, we have become accustomed to the fact that the president does not start the voting process under these circumstances. i ask that we adhere to this custom and wait until our fellow members are kind enough to leave the building or the courtroom. it's also a humiliation for the voters to talk under these circumstances. i ask for your patience, so that i can begin my speech in a dignified manner. thank you very much.
mr president, allow me to read a paragraph from the explanatory memorandum, or opinion, of the committee on employment and social affairs, paragraph 18, which says: 'it calls on the commission to use instruments to assess not only the number of jobs created but also their quality, as poor working conditions without adequate protection or contracts involving the exploitation of workers contribute to a negative assessment of cohesion policy.' this is precisely what is connected to the reason why the so-called workers' union citizens' initiative was launched with the participation of eight former socialist countries. the european commission has accepted this initiative, it is beginning to collect signatures, and we see that the idea is not so far from the thinking of the european parliament, the forces of good of the european union, the forces of thinking in a people-centered way, because it is unacceptable that the wages, income and working conditions of the former socialist countries of central and eastern europe are so far behind those of the west, and the new cohesion policy should aim to reduce this distance.
mr. president, it always shocks me when experts on television and radio explain that, as good hungarians, you must understand that the basis of our economy and our competitiveness is low wages. that's a fact that needs to be acknowledged. sociologists would probably call this phenomenon internalized self-hatred, or internalized inferiority. as a criminal lawyer, i would go so far as to say that this is almost discriminatory hate speech. to tell people that you are inferior, that you deserve less, that you are less because of where you were born and where you live than someone who lives, say, 200 miles away. this is an amazing thing and that is why i was reassured by this report on cohesion policy after 2020, the key phrase which says that cohesion policy for the period after 2020 must continue to eliminate inequalities and strengthen solidarity. this is my message to those who downplay and neglect the wage union initiative of the eight central and eastern european countries.
the following point is inserted after point 2 of the annex to implementing regulation (eu) no 1268/2011:
in writing. one of the european union's greatest achievements is the creation of a single currency for the whole continent. the euro is being introduced by all member states. our neighbours have been slovaks and slovenians for a long time, and the romanians and bulgarians are about to adopt the euro. unfortunately, in hungary, this is not even in the corner, despite the fact that we meet all the conditions. economic growth has begun in the countries using the single currency, and exchange rate risk has disappeared completely. in slovakia, for example, people have been living much better since the euro was introduced, and living standards have started to rise dramatically. in fact, in the euro area, there is a common eu protection for bank deposits. the euro is the second most important currency in the world, behind the us dollar. why wouldn't we want to introduce it? why wouldn't we want the hungarians to enjoy all the benefits of a common, strong euro? we are committed to hungary joining the euro, which represents the interests of the hungarian people.
mr president, i myself agree that the health of eu citizens must be taken into account to the fullest extent. that is why i am glad that we have put this controversial subject on the agenda here in parliament. i suggest we approach the question with common sense. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. as long as the product was patented, the question hadn't been on the table for decades. however, i believe that the precautionary principle should be observed in all cases. i say that all poisons are poisons, but with controlled use, their harmful effects can be reduced. we cannot allow excessive use of these substances, since the 100 tonnes of substances released accumulate in nature. but a total ban is not the answer. in the absence of alternative solutions, i believe that we should also focus on developing farmers' knowledge in addition to research and development. i also ask the commission to develop safeguards and ensure that the authorisation procedures are 100% reliable.
i have received seven motions for resolutions. i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on thursday 15 june 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following point is inserted after the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
madam president, freedom of speech and expression are inseparable from the concept of democracy, because in a democracy, democratic decisions are made in the clash of arguments, in the battle of opposing arguments, in free debate. it is shocking to us hungarians who have lived under socialism or communism for nearly fifty years to see how freedom of speech and expression is being eroded in certain areas of western europe. migration is one example. they use criminal law to crack down on those who are supposedly anti-immigration, critical of mass immigration. they're prosecuted, they're put in jail, they're given labor sanctions, they're fired from their jobs. we hungarians have experienced for 50 years the lack of freedom of speech and expression and, therefore, the lack of democracy. don't try to force this on us, they're trying to do this, but they're not going to succeed, we're going to keep our values.
i'll close this discussion.
the next item is the debate on the report of the committee on foreign affairs by mr david mcallister on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs on the commission's report on serbia for the year 2016. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council.
mr. president, i've put my most important message in writing. we must veto, we must prevent serbia from joining the european union until it has granted self-determination, including full and real, de facto autonomy to the nearly three hundred thousand hungarians in the country. there are models in europe that work perfectly, like south tyrol or the basque country, and this is the modern concept of collective human rights, and you can demand this from serbia. these people have the right to live in their homeland as hungarians. that's not the case now. i would like to ask my fellow members of parliament and the members of the committee whether they have received the documentary films i sent you about the... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. president, we thank the speaker, mr. mcallister, for his excellent work. the european union will play a key role in maintaining and consolidating the peace and stability that have been established in the wake of the balkan war following the break-up of the former yugoslavia. for the western balkan countries, european integration is the path to development and the future. the union must not abandon them in their multifaceted crisis. in this context, the european union must ensure that these countries have a realistic prospect of joining as soon as possible, while the parties on the path of integration must make much greater efforts than before to meet the requirements imposed on them and their own commitments. serbia seems to be on the right track in terms of these aspirations. with regard to the achievements and shortcomings of the serbian country report, i shall focus on the issue of ethnic minorities only. the report lacks the explicit wording of minority autonomy and, in this context, the continuing delay in the adoption of laws on national councils and the rights of national minorities. the document also calls for the restitution of minority community church property. it is also unacceptable that the provisions of the otherwise laudable minority protection legislation generally remain on paper, their implementation notoriously fails. as the representative of the allied hungary, i raise my voice for the self-government and human rights of the serbian hungarian community.
mr. president, i am very pleased that my colleague, mr. mcallister, has finally been able to discuss his well-formed and balanced report. it is clear from the record that serbia is on the right track and that serbia has a key role to play in maintaining stability in the region. it is also natural that there is still work to be done in the accession process, whether in the area of minority rights, the rule of law, national councils, part-time work or minority education. serbia has adopted a precise action plan on these issues and i trust that serbia will comply with it. but i also trust that the eu will also fulfil its own commitments and that it will make concrete gestures that will also be felt by the serbian citizens. this means not just opening new chapters in the negotiations, but much more tangible steps that suggest that the eu is genuinely committed to further enlargement.
mr president, hungary is interested in the stability of the western balkans and in the european integration of its countries. we therefore regard the adoption of the national strategy for the implementation of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement, which entered into force in april last year, as a major achievement. from the hungarian point of view, we particularly appreciate that according to the laws of the country, 20 seats in the 120-member pristina parliament are reserved for ethnic minorities. this principle is a good practice to be followed throughout the western balkans. but there is concern about the domestic political instability that led to last week's snap parliamentary elections. the sharp political contradictions that divide the small country have led kosovo to not only not be able to exploit the opportunities offered by its independence, but also to destroy the gains it has made so far. overcoming partisan divisions and a strong political will based on mutual agreement are needed for kosovo to fulfil its democratic commitments and finally get on track towards european integration.
mr. president, how is this possible? kosovo has an indigenous, so born, serb community of 150,000. the european union and, of course, the serbian motherland have squeezed out and demanded a territorial autonomy in the old sense, a full, de facto autonomy. in the serbia discussed earlier, there is a community of 300 thousand or almost 300 thousand ethnic hungarians, who do not have territorial autonomy, do not have full and effective autonomy. my question, of course, contains an answer, which i never get, because that is not the practice here in this parliament, but i am asking mrs lunacek and i am asking the commission. the answer is: the motherland is there - and i'm not talking about party politics here - the motherland fought for it, demanded it, and the european union demanded it.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my pleasure that the kosovo country report 2016 has been included in the agenda together with the serbian country report. hungary's priority is stability in the western balkans, and it supports all initiatives that lead to reconciliation and seeks to encourage closer economic and political cooperation between the countries of the region, in which the eu should take a leading role. the stability of the region depends to a large extent on the normalisation processes between serbia and kosovo and on the consistent implementation of the so-called brussels agreement. we have seen progress on the part of belgrade on several points of the agreement (energy, telecommunications, etc.), but pristina has long been unwilling to create the conditions for the establishment of the community of serb communities. i think the eu needs to be more consistent on this issue. in the run-up to sunday's snap elections, i would like to express my hope that a government committed to european values and reconciliation will be formed, which will also make the creation of minority self-government and autonomy a priority. thank you for listening.
mr president, colleagues, citizens in europe and overseas, i am also asking for solidarity, but in this case solidarity with my homeland: hungary. as you all know, we resist mass migration and we keep defending our borders and the borders of europe. the european union wants to push us on our knees. now they started infringement proceedings against us; they want to punish us hard, they want to weaken our economy, and i ask for your solidarity and support around the world. please write letters of dissent to this odd, strange man mr juncker, and moreover make hungary and hungarian goods and services trendy. lots of you are now deciding where to go for a holiday: come to our safe country which is still european, come to hungary; we have fantastic thermals spas, you can get your health back; we have a fantastic beautiful capital – budapest; buy hungarian products; if you go to see friends, bring a bottle of hungarian wine or some good hungarian food; show that you support hungary and we will not give up.
in writing. although the current eit meeting also includes other important issues that will determine the future of the eu, such as the european semester or the common security policy, the european citizen is still looking to the heads of state and government to resolve the refugee crisis. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity, and the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. the most important elements of this, in my view, are: ending human trafficking and disasters in the mediterranean; ensuring that refugees are treated humanely and with a future to live for; and that migrants arriving at eu borders are treated, received, redirected or returned in a humane, uniform and transparent manner. equally urgent - and only achievable at the level of the leaders - is the task of bringing the basic concept of solidarity back into the legal order and practice of eu migration policy. they must jointly challenge governments that reject the agreed order of distribution of refugees, especially orbán's. this is further supported by the shocking development that in his last speech to parliament, orbán attacked the existence and the fundamental values of the union, declaring that the eu is on the side of terrorists, because many people objected to the 10-year prison sentence of a refugee protesting at the hungarian border, including in this parliament. in this context, i expect the president to express the ep's close unity in his speech to the european parliament.
mr president dear hungarian brothers and sisters in the south! however, the serbian country report included some very important and favorable provisions. but i demand that the european union constantly monitor the implementation of these, and of course the hungarian government, as well as the mother country and the hungarian community in the south of the country. what's this all about? for example, i would like to see that from leaflets, through facebook, even to loudspeakers, the eighty percent of hungarian zentán would spread these provisions and appeals. the eu says that the rights of national minorities and their protection and promotion are a fundamental precondition for eu accession. reiterates its call on serbia to ensure the consistent implementation of legislation on the protection of minorities throughout the country, with particular attention to non-discriminatory treatment of national minorities, article 24. including education, language, justice... ( the president withdrew the member's address.)
mr president the hungarian student union in vajdaság has been fighting for years to allow the faculty of law of the university of novi sad to admit students in hungarian in accordance with the current serbian legislation. yet the university denies this opportunity, as provided by law. the students' union asked the competent court to declare that the ban on hungarian language admission was unlawful. the supreme court of the new province shockingly dismissed the case, despite the existing decree. the events raise the question again: how true is the constantly repeated claim that serbia is pursuing an exemplary nationalist policy? this current case, as you mentioned, proves that this is not the case. the report should not examine the existence of the legislation necessary for eu accession, but its practical application. that's not what he did, and that's why i didn't support his acceptance.
mr president europe today seems to be in a state of confusion, facing many unprecedented challenges and conflicts. today i think that europe, the future of all of us, is at stake. we must see that europe has reached a turning point. the end of a europe based on more or less homogeneous nation states, industrial capitalism, well-organised social classes. the new industrial revolution, the fragmentation of social classes, cultural diversity, globalization has created a new world in which the old answers, the old habits, are no longer helpful. we have to redesign, we have to re-create europe. i believe that the new europe must be built on progress and solidarity, on freedom and security. we must build a europe that has no room for hatred, stigma and discrimination. we want a europe that is welcoming and open, a europe where everyone can find a home, where the future is not fear but hope and opportunity.
mr president in her introduction, mrs veld spoke of the parties she called nationalist, claiming that for them there was a voice, a truth. aren't you the ones who think that there's only one way to europe? the deeper integration? and those who want looser cooperation, you label them as anti-european, and that's the most subtle sign? in his message, manfred weber, leader of the pp, referred to the christian roots as the basis of the value system. on the other hand, it says that we need diversity here. you have quoted the founding fathers so many times, and i will now quote two statements by robert schuman: 'europe cannot be integrated by creating a common structure, which you want, and the other is that europe will either be christian or it will not be.' that's what the founding fathers said, you're just picking and choosing between their statements.
mr president in more and more parts of europe, certain political forces are moving away from, or reinterpreting or misinterpreting, our core values, such as democracy and the rule of law, while equality and solidarity are also increasingly being pushed into the background. in recent years, there have been many elections across europe, and in every single one of them, we have had to tighten up to ensure that extremist, anti-european forces do not emerge victorious. we have had our fears finally beaten, but not all member states have been so lucky. hungary is a good example of this. waving the flag of illiberal democracy, it is moving away from european values, and the lives of hungarian people are shaping up accordingly. there is a huge gap between the oligarchs of the orbán government and the real hungarian reality, while the orbán government, acting on the model of putin, is now a security risk due to the growing russian influence. although the eu can exercise some control over the situation by strictly monitoring the use of eu funds, real change can only be achieved by the electorate.
it's a two-card draw. - mr president! first of all, let me say something to the prime minister, that as a hungarian representative, as a hungarian citizen, i envy your problems. because all the accusations that have been made in the past, and you've alluded to them. i respectfully ask you if you would be willing to give the same speech to viktor orbán, who is committing 100 times as many of the things we are accusing the maltese of doing.
mr president let me just take a moment to refer back to the answer to my earlier question. indeed, malta is on the podium here, but i think this debate should be about the european union. the phenomena that we're talking about here are in many, many countries in europe, and they're taking away an incredible amount of billions from european development, from european taxpayers. that is why i think it is very important that the important lesson of today's debate is that we are not looking for just one country, and then all the accusations can be made, but the whole problem must be dealt with as a whole, because as i said, viktor orbán is doing a hundred times as much piggery in hungary as what we have heard in the room, by the way, it is a fact. for example, the citizenship programme run by the orbán government is exclusively and strictly an offshore operation. now, these are the things that a european community cannot afford to leave behind.
it's a two-card draw. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: indeed, others before you have already pointed out that there is a geographical disparity in this whole distribution, and i agree with you that efficiency and good projects are needed. but do you also notice that disparities are not just east-west, north-south, but also between rural and urban, and rural areas are virtually excluded?
madam president, my dear officer. here in the debate we can hear different figures on how the use is distributed in terms of the strategic development fund, and i already mentioned in a question that the rural areas, the rural areas, they are indeed disadvantaged, they are not very much affected by this opportunity. i would also like to draw attention to this aspect again, because today the european parliament voted on a whole series of other restrictions which are justified from an environmental point of view and which are putting rural and agricultural areas under even more difficult controls. i think this efsi is supposed to counterbalance that.
in writing. mr president, at the beginning of 2006, the spring european council committed itself to taking the necessary measures to reduce child poverty rapidly and substantially, ensuring equal opportunities for all children, regardless of their social background. yet, to this day, one in four children in the eu is at risk of poverty. this is a problem that must be addressed seriously, and it is only through specific programmes that we can hope to find a solution. whether it is local initiatives based on social cohesion, such as every child lives well, or public programmes. i think hungary is leading the way in this area. school meals are now available not only during the school year but also during all four school holidays, so that children from disadvantaged families can have access to hot meals during the summer holidays. since 2015, 208 000 disadvantaged and overburdened children across the country have been provided with one free hot meal a day. i think it is important that these important and exemplary programmes should be discussed here in the european parliament.
in writing. hungary has an interest in supporting and strengthening families. hungary has been following its own path and has been spending more and more (more than 4,5% of gdp in 2018) on family support, which is almost twice the oecd average. according to surveys based on the eurostat methodology, the proportion of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has shown an improving trend in poland since 2012. the largest proportion of these improvements were among children under 18, more than 40 000. in hungary, not only the most disadvantaged children but all disadvantaged children are important in the fight against child poverty and they receive support through the child welfare programmes. the number of 'safety start' orphanages where children and parents receive services together in disadvantaged communities is already well over 100 nationwide (the number has more than doubled since 2012). hungary is also at the forefront of compulsory kindergarten attendance, with children starting kindergarten at the age of 3 at a rate almost twice the eu average. since 2010, the hungarian state has increased its spending on childcare by 250%, and already during the school (inter) holidays, it provides one hot meal a day for disadvantaged children. a specifically targeted eu resource in three counties (szabolcs-szatmár-bereg, hajdú-bihar and borsod-abaúj-zemplén) is used to provide a food package to children under three years of age, helping some 12 000 disadvantaged children.
madam president, we can start from the basic proposition that there does indeed exist a european level of politics: the institutions of the european union, the member states and the citizens interact in a variety of ways to make this european political system operative. let me make it clear that, in many ways, this political system is quite different from what is to be found in a member state. then there is the question of european—level political parties and their role in the system, and, in this connection, how these parties should be financed. this financing raises a number of issues. first of all, do they exist, these parties? well, obviously, the answer is yes, they do. secondly, should they exist? well, if we have european—level elections for the european parliament – as we do – then logic dictates the answer: yes. thirdly, if these european political parties exist, then can they function in any way that makes sense without adequate finance? again, logic says that they need financing. at the same time, the system as it exists – and others have referred to this – can be gamed. virtual parties, cross—party memberships, ad—hoc groups, etc., have been known to gain access to financing. the regulation should ensure that this practice comes to an end. both these issues should be resolved in the regulation, and resolved speedily.
in writing. there are some hot policy topics that are talked about a lot. my impression is that the european industrial strategy is not one of them. but there's a lot at stake here: jobs, knowledge and tradition. there is no doubt that the key to the success of european industry is quality, excellent value for money. therefore, two pillars are worth focusing on: innovation and competitive price. first, appropriate regulation should promote the growth of r & d expenditure in a technology-neutral way. secondly, we must give all the support we can to the industry to enable them to sell their products at competitive prices on the global market. for energy-intensive industries, the level of energy prices is of decisive importance. with the creation of the single energy market, we have started to reduce energy prices. however, there are still some pending energy policy issues that may have a negative impact on market developments. a prime example is the authorisation of the nord stream gas pipeline extension, which could contribute to higher energy prices in some member states. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that the above aspects - innovation and competitive energy prices - should be given the highest priority in the further development of the industrial strategy.
mr president i voted in favour of the report on the european agenda for the community economy. like the report, i welcome the fact that the recovery of the community economy is increasing competition, but i also welcome the fact that the text also deals with the impact on the labour market and workers' rights. my vote was also positively influenced by the fact that the report addressed the needs of rural areas in several points. i agree that the community economy can provide significant opportunities for the inner peripheries, rural areas and disadvantaged areas.
mr president the report made a number of suggestions for consideration concerning online platforms and the digital single market. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants and loans, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance in the form of grants and loans. i particularly welcome the fact that the report also addresses rural areas in terms of investment in infrastructure and that it addresses the issue of unequal access to technologies. member states should actively prevent the emergence of digital skills gaps or unequal access to technologies. i support the call for the development of the social dimension and also urge the member states to provide adequate social security for self-employed workers. i also agree with the findings on the importance of combating the spread of false news, the protection of personal data and consumer information.
mr president i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the legal status and funding of european political parties and foundations, which, like the motion, i consider to be necessary to revise regulation no 1141/2014 due to its many shortcomings. in particular, the level of co-financing and the possibility for mps to belong to several political parties. i therefore urge the commission, in agreement with the motion, to examine the shortcomings and to propose a revision of the regulation.
madam president, please. i would like to mention three things briefly. i would also like to draw your attention to at least one of them, mr commissioner, and that is that in hungary, although the government is very proud of the fact that it has introduced a very large number of family-friendly measures, it does so through the tax system, in hungarian the wealthier families can enjoy family support benefits, while the unemployed or those on lower incomes are excluded. i would like to see the commissioner help to bring about a regulation at european level which would put this practice behind us. the other thing i would like to mention, and this is a great pain in hungary, is that there are also many refugee families who, for example, are literally imprisoned at the hungarian border, as long as the investigation, the assessment of their asylum applications, is ongoing, and if someone raises his voice against this, viktor orbán says that the european union supports terrorists. well, these should be abolished.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. with varying degrees of intensity and content in different countries, but with a common experience across europe, younger generations are being reinfected with various manifestations of human hatred and intolerance, with the poison of extreme nationalism, racism, anti-semitism, xenophobia. we are particularly aware of this phenomenon in eastern and central europe, where the dangerous strain of anti-semitism is repeatedly rearing its head among the youngest, almost childlike populations, and has led to the extermination of millions long before they were born, even before their parents were born, and to the incalculable suffering and irreparable loss of entire peoples and generations. in searching for the causes of this frightening trend, we first find the most unrestrained representatives of political extremism, who do not hesitate to poison the minds of young people, or from positions of power to tolerate it, in order to achieve their obscure political goals. it is not the fault of the government and other educational institutions that the younger generation is not adequately prepared for the return of the ideals of our history, and there are examples of this in the curriculum itself or in official government policies. the latter is unfortunately now a global example of cyberwarfare and organized disinformation by putin's russia. and looking at the tools, today they are the most obvious, and perhaps the least transparent and controllable space for this dangerous phenomenon, which children and adolescents are most susceptible to, including first and foremost the video-sharing platforms that are the subject of our discussion today. that is why our common thinking today is so important, and i believe that it should be translated into common and effective eu action in the short term. although i am a european democrat and i am opposed to any restriction on freedom of information and expression, i hate all forms of censorship, whether open or covert, and the protection of our children and grandchildren against the constant spread of inhumanity, racism and anti-semitism, namely the more precise and strict enforcement of the responsibility of service providers in accordance with european standards and commonly agreed, transparent and controlled rules, can hardly be considered censorship, even by the most frequently freedom-destroying, or even censorship-cursed, european citizen who has actually experienced censorship.
mr president the recipe is familiar, and we see it in the case of moldova. they do it regularly in ex-communist and ex-socialist countries. the european union, or the international monetary fund, the imf, so to speak, liquid pro quo. you give, you make democracy, you make economic reforms, and we give you money. what does that mean? economic reform in their language means that everything that is national property must be privatized. we must give them our land, we must let them destroy our agriculture, we must open our markets to products that are often of poor quality. we know this recipe! as a hungarian, i am very proud that we have managed to get rid of the yoke of the imf. how is the european union teaching us democracy now? by telling us to accept mass immigration into our country against our will. thank you very much, we don't want this democracy. we are equal members of the european union, so they don't give us charity. god save the people of moldova from what you and the imf are trying to impose on them.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam rapporteur, i would like to thank you for your excellent work and for your cooperation in this matter. we have a report that has real added value and i would say that it is strategically important for the future. this report explicitly highlights the key role of standardisation schemes in unlocking the potential of the internal market and their potential importance for competitiveness. without going into too much detail or repeating what has been said before, i would just like to draw your attention to a few points. firstly, the future of european standardisation. when we talk about this question, it comes up in the way that we have to approach, how we have to review this system. well, we can say that the current system is relatively well regulated. so we need to do it without throwing away the current results. so we can't make a radical change that weakens the core of the current system. at the same time, i would like to mention as an aspect how important it is to involve everyone in the standardisation process. let it be national organisations, standards bodies and their cooperation. the next aspect is how important it is that everyone who participates has access to it. that is, standards are understood by those to whom they are to be applied. and let's not forget that we can't standardize everything. these standards must not distort competition, and obstacles must be removed precisely in order to increase competition. it is important that we invite all stakeholders, those involved in research and development, those involved in innovation, all of them, into this process. and one last point: applying the frand principle throughout the process. it's a good report, with balance points that i support.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, please understand that i sometimes use a yellow card for keynote speakers because i want to know the views of the groups. although i'm lucky in this case, because my colleague schwab is a very good representative of the people's party. so i'd like to add my question now, very briefly. the question of accessibility was raised by mrs gállné pelcz. since one of the most exciting initiatives of the european union is the smart villages initiative, i ask how far can we extend this report to the specific needs of rural areas, of villages?
madam president, i would like to ask mr andriukaitis to answer the following question. now, we can see clearly, and it's very shocking, that many people are not able to recover from serious diseases because their bodies are already resistant to antibiotics -- and this is a huge problem in europe. i ask how this relates to our dietary habits, which are paradoxically imposed on us by the european union. that we don't know what we're eating. that certain meat that we eat comes from what part of the world. most of the time, you can talk about large-scale farming, where you have animal factories. animals are continuously treated with antibiotics. unlike small farms, where the eye of the farmer is immediately alert to the slightest sign of disease. in the large agricultural enterprises, infections are spread between animals. so how much of this is causing antibiotic resistance in the european union?
i have received a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128 (5). i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 july 2017.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr pascal durand on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the proposal for a council directive on the prolongation of the life-cycle of products: benefits for consumers and businesses (2016/2272 (ini)) (a8-0214/2017).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 july 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr cristian dan preda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, entitled 'action against human rights violations in the context of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including genocide' (2016/2239 (ini)) (a8-0222/2017).
madam president, malta's presidency of the eu has failed to establish a workable migration policy, and immigration continues. the council considers it its main task to enforce the reception quota. and they want to reduce illegal immigration by using legal immigration. the juncker plan has failed in terms of investment. if the eu's 15 billion euro reserve cannot be increased to 315 billion euros, the miracle of money multiplication will not take place. the differences between the countries of the centre and the periphery have not diminished. there's a wage gap, and there's an unhealthy flow of labor from east to west, causing social tensions on both sides. recognising this, jobbik for hungary launched the european citizens' initiative for the raising of wages. and he found partners in seven countries and in the european commission. let's hope it works.
mr president, malta took over the presidency of the european union at a time when the union was facing a number of challenges. and you heard, we all agreed that malta has mastered this task, and has a very good record. but not because malta is a small country, mr. prime minister, but because they have a very innovative approach to the problems. the broad political consensus reached in the interinstitutional negotiations on the european asylum agency is a good example of this. we know that the agency for asylum is perhaps the most important institution in the common european asylum policy. however, there are still member states that have not understood that asylum is a european problem and cannot be solved at the national level. many people did not even understand that solidarity between member states is one of the prerequisites for the political unity of the european union. that is why i am pleased that an agreement has finally been reached - thanks in part to the maltese government - which will advance the common european asylum policy.
mr president, i have a question for mr juncker. my understanding was that, during the maltese presidency, over the last couple of months there was an important paradigm shift in the whole migration and refugee issue – a shift from just allowing millions and millions of migrants coming to europe towards treating the root causes, and treating the whole issue locally. did i misunderstand something? is this not what is actually happening? what is the policy of the european union, following the maltese presidency? this kind of paradigm shift is what my country, hungary, has been fighting for for a long time, and we shall never give up. i look forward to your answer.
it's a two-card draw. you have listed the interests of all involved in the legislation. although i have my doubts about whether european citizens would be the primary beneficiaries of this. i would ask you, above all, what mechanism do you think allows large multinational companies to represent their interests in such an exemplary way within the european institutional system?
madam president, i consider it a great step forward that the european union is seeking to make the most important data, the revenues and the taxation of multinational companies operating in european countries, transparent. but i would ask the commissioner present and the rapporteur to tell us whether we should go further and make the concessions, subsidies and exemptions granted to multinational companies and large foreign companies in certain countries more transparent. for example, to create jobs, but not to give them to local smes. and would you agree that this should simply be classified as severe discrimination? and when it comes to job creation, member states should go in the direction of supporting their small and mediumsized enterprises.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i will start where the vice-president of the commission stopped. europe is still facing a crisis that we have not overcome yet, and that means much closer attention is required. we cannot just act like in normal peace times, so the exercise of determining the next year’s legislation is a very important debate. it is also a good way of mapping out how the various political parties here in parliament are thinking about that. on behalf of the ppe i would like to say we still believe that a competitive social market economy is the cornerstone of the european society. we also have to be very careful and pay attention to citizens and their needs. in this framework i would like to say clearly that we have asked the commission to make efforts to further improve the work-life balance. we have also asked the commission to determine their key priority actions to strengthen industrial competitiveness, enable companies to compete in domestic and global markets and reinforce the capacity of the union and its member states to support the development of businesses, with special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. we also would like, in the context of completion of the digital single market, to see special attention paid to cyber security, interoperability and the digitalisation of the transport sector, including road safety. in the area of migration, which is the big challenge ahead of the european union, we consider it of the utmost importance to tackle the root causes of migration by upgrading the union’s development and cooperation policy in africa as well as its role in the resolution of conflict in its neighbouring countries. the other area which citizens are demanding us to pay special attention to – and we are doing that by forwarding the demand to the commission – is security, which, in both its internal and its external aspects, should be a priority, with commitments to the neighbourhood and to ensuring the stability and implementation of the european defence action plan. in the financial area, we are expecting the multiannual financial framework post-2020 and the proposal on own resources to be tabled by june 2018. this is very important if they are to correspond with the commission’s and parliament’s political cycles. simplification of cohesion policy and the future of the common agricultural policy should be key elements. the ppe group wants to insist on implementation. the commission is taking the right course in that, instead of addressing the many areas where there is a demand from the left in this house for regulation, it is concentrating on how we implement the existing legislation. the commission has its role to play, together with the member states, because we need to use all the available tools before creating new laws or legislation.
madam president, members of the commission do not usually give us any answers, but i would like to ask vice-president timmermans to kindly make an exception. vice-president timmermans, speaking about the preparation of the commission’s work programme in 2018, don’t you think that it would be high time to address the issue of the major wage and income gap between central and eastern european – that is to say ‘new’ member states and old member states in the west – that causes enormous internal migration from our central and eastern european countries to western countries? as you very well know, we have a lack of a medical doctors, nurses and even waiters and tourist personnel. we are in trouble. what is the attitude of the commission towards this? i am glad that you accepted the initiative of eight central and eastern european countries towards the so—called wage union, but what is going to happen next?
madam president, the word solidarity that we heard in this debate is the main thrust of common european political action. but i would like to point out one crucial element of this for a sustainable future. solidarity with the rural, village population. in most member states of the european union, rural people cannot continue to suffer from discrimination in terms of living conditions, opportunities and access to modern infrastructure. nor can it be said that, despite its capacity, europe is not feeding all its citizens adequately. according to eurostat alone, one fifth of europe's population is undernourished. forward-looking ideas, project plans are available, for the common agricultural policy, the budget and other relevant community policies e.g. the smart villages project. now, effective, proactive action by the commission is the key to moving forward.
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123 (2). i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place on wednesday 5 july 2017. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the following agenda item is included in the agenda for the debate on topical issues (rule 153a of the rules of procedure): eu defence plan and the future of europe (2017/2752 ((rsp)).
madam president, we are talking about the future of europe, about the creation of a common european army. but first, in the light of brexit, a much more important question needs to be clarified: where do we go from here, the european union? is it closer cooperation towards a superstate or looser cooperation towards respect for sovereignty? here, those who support the first version are in the majority and consider themselves pro-european, and those of us who want looser cooperation are anti-european. but let's see what the public has to say about this. in germany, only 26% support closer european cooperation and 43% would like to return the competence to the member state from brussels. in hungary, 17% and 40% of the population support closer cooperation, while in poland only 9% support closer cooperation. i ask you: in this parliament, which is proud to represent the people, who is right? who's on the side of the people? who represents what the majority wants?
madam president, there is much to be supported in this defence package. i am not going to go through all the details but we are able to support many elements of the three different scenarios worked out in the package. i would just like to highlight one missing element and the crucial question around it: the missing element is the capability requirement in the different scenarios. that is important, because that will define four structures. somebody should do the planning for four structures, and it would be better if those who do this planning were answerable to somebody, possibly a parliamentary body, at the same time. put simply, we should not let r&d and procurement be driven by the needs of the defence industry. they should be driven by the strategic needs of the european union.
it's a two-card draw. - madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it was absolutely from the heart, as far as the countryside is concerned. but actually, let me ask you theoretically, when we talk about the tasks of agriculture, do we see the fact that 20 percent of the population of europe, a fifth of the population, is still undernourished? in short, i can't see how less money can solve these problems.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i would first like to thank mr mureşan and the shadow rapporteurs for the good cooperation; we had a successful exchange of views on this topic in the economy meeting. the role of agriculture and rural development in delivering a number of eu objectives is not a question. we consider important the active farmer clause, the producers’ groups, the fight against unfair trading practices, the new market observatories, the phytosanitary actions and the smart approach. because of the difficult situation of farmers, we cannot allow any cuts to the agriculture budget, and no reallocations to other sectors should take place. the system of the pilot projects and preparatory actions is an important tool which targets sustainable, renewed projects such as the smart villages concept.
in writing. i would like to thank my colleagues elmar brok and silvia costa for the work they have done in developing the future eu strategy for international cultural relations. throughout history, the importance of using cultural diplomacy tools to shape a country's international image, promoting international relations with so-called soft, i.e. cultural means, has been proven many times. i appreciate the recognition of the importance of cultural diplomacy in external relations and the prominent importance of culture in today's globalized, accelerated, depersonalized and christian values-subverting world. the european union must be a unified representative of european values, with human dignity, freedom and equality at its core. a balanced approach to strengthening cultural links that respects cultural differences is therefore important. it is also appropriate for the european union to use cultural instruments in shaping its foreign policy strategy, and this can be particularly effective in developing relations with third countries. the report focuses on strengthening cultural links with countries in the eu's neighbourhood policy. the so-called cultural visa programme is designed to facilitate the exchange of experience between artists and to strengthen cooperation between cultural institutions in eu member states and third countries. i am pleased that the report encourages the creation of programmes by which the eu facilitates the participation of third countries in crossborder cultural and scientific projects, which also serve this purpose.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is pleasure to be in the parliament today together with my colleague, commissioner oettinger. yes, to achieve the consensus on how we are going to fight against fraud against the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law, this is a historical moment. i am happy to be here at this historical moment in spite of the late hour. i would particularly like to thank the two co—rapporteurs, ms gräßle and mr lópez aguilar. without your tireless efforts and your continuous support in moving this initiative forward, we would not be here today. a quarter of a century after the adoption of the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests, it was time to modernise the legislative framework on the protection of the eu budget. the directive updates the definitions of criminal offences affecting the union’s financial interests. it also introduces common rules as regards sanctions and statute of limitations linked to these offences. the anti—fraud directive is a decisive step forward and, in combination with the european public prosecutor’s office, we are entering a new era. the anti-fraud directive will essentially frame the activities of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). it will provide the material scope for the investigations and prosecutions of criminal offences falling within its competence, and will ensure that the eppo can rely on harmonised definitions of these offences across the member states. the council reached a general approach on the eppo in enhanced cooperation in june, and this chamber will soon be asked for consent. i am confident that the eppo regulation can be adopted as soon as possible with a strong backing from parliament. i am happy that 20 member states have already notified their participation in the eppo. this will make it an efficient tool to protect the financial interests of the eu, and i invite more member states to join. the work has just started. it has not finished with the adoption in the council. i will finish now because i know that we are in a hurry here. i will now be happy to hear my colleague, mr oettinger.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. fraud, dishonesty, bribery, corruption are crimes of considerable financial weight. but if they go against a public budget - whether at national level or here in europe - then they are also dangerous for democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. so far, there has been only one council convention. she's over 20 years old. today you are creating parliamentary law. we are strengthening the legal basis for all the activities of our services against corruption, bribery, dishonesty and similar crimes with this pif directive and with the reform of the olaf regulation which we are preparing, with olaf as before and eppo as new. on the basis of the eppo regulation we have legal bases and bodies and instruments which i believe are considerable, which correspond to the european citizen and which make a great contribution to the credibility and honesty of european budgetary programmes. i am grateful to the rapporteurs, to parliament, to mrs jourová and to her services for this, and i agree, in my capacity as olaf and eppo, that we will do everything possible to ensure that both institutions work excellently and in concert. i would ask you to put the eppo regulation into law as soon as possible. then we have a european public prosecutor's office in 20 member states, and olaf is working with it. and in the other seven or eight member states, olaf will continue to do its job and work alongside the national prosecutor's offices. as the eppo/olaf staff evolves, we will do everything we can to ensure that the eppo gets off to a good start and that olaf is not weakened along the way in the tasks that remain in all european member states. it is a good day indeed and a success of the tenacity of you, the rapporteurs in the european parliament!
on behalf of the verts/ale group madam president, i have to ask you to leave. i would also like to thank the speakers, mr. aguilar and mrs. gräßle. i agree with them that it is a historic step for this parliament to finally get to the point where we can create this regulation. the european parliament can in particular credit the success of the inclusion of vat regulation and vat-related offences in the scope of the directive. so this is a very important step forward, but it's also just a first step. it is clear that regulation is the only way to effectively tackle corruption in europe. this also requires institutions, in particular the european public prosecutor's office, which is able to effectively detect, investigate and punish such crimes. unfortunately, the european public prosecutor's office will not be set up in europe with all member states as members. the countries which are the main beneficiaries of eu funds are also excluded from the cooperation. i am therefore afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that the european public prosecutor's office will not be able to control the use of eu funds in the countries where they are most at risk.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. another olaf report, another disgraceful data has emerged on the proportion of public funds that fall victim to corruption in each member state. the eu's anti-fraud office uncovered a record number of cases last year. hungary had to recover four times as many eu funds due to irregularities as anywhere else in the union. the eu funds are our money too, money that could be used to build schools, highways and playgrounds. they disappear in billions of pieces, and we read about them every day in the news, and we know which politician's family they landed with. it is therefore outrageous that some member states do not want to join the european public prosecutor's office, which would expose the misuse of eu funds. the european public prosecutor's office would ensure that eu funds serve the interests of hungarians and europeans, not the few who are in power. the proposal from several eu capitals is that those who do not accept the european public prosecutor's office and do not respect the principles of the rule of law should not receive eu funds. we would therefore join the european public prosecutor's office immediately after 2018, which would not only secure eu funds but also our continued membership of the european union.
mr president, here we are again. i have a question for you, first vice-president timmermans. it is a very specific question, and i would like you to give me – as well as hungarians and a number of other people who are interested – a very specific answer. suppose we were to follow your order and receive migrants and refugees in my country, hungary. you, as well as every single person in this room, know perfectly well that those people would not want to stay in hungary because they want a better life. they would like to move on to richer countries like germany, austria, sweden, and so on. mr timmermans, how can we hold them back? what is the order, so to say, in this respect? we all know very well that we cannot put these people into a closed institution; they have the right to freedom of movement. i know we should integrate them. this will probably be the answer, but this is the wrong answer, mr timmermans and dear colleagues, because they would not like to be integrated in hungary, they would like to move on the next day to richer countries. so you must have a strategy on that, because your whole strategy about the treatment of the migrant crisis is based on the idea of solidarity among member states and forcing all member states, including my country hungary, to receive migrants. so how would you solve this problem? i look forward to your answer, mr timmermans.
in writing. i hope that eu leaders will arrive at the g20 summit with more energy than ever before, because after two years of fruitless debate, the european council meeting in june finally managed to move beyond the refugee crisis and to address and decide on common challenges that shape the future of the world and of european citizens, such as global economic growth, the importance of implementing the paris agreement and common security. without underestimating the importance of africa and the sustainable development goals, from the perspective of european interests, the future of migration flows, i believe that the key issue of the meeting is to guarantee international peace and security, especially in the syrian and iraqi arena. i find the eu's position vis-à-vis its global partners on migration to be less reassuring. the important resolutions on the border control, the distribution of refugees and the humane approach to migration cannot be considered as decisive for joint eu action as long as the eit is not able to put an end to the anti-european and anti-foreigner minework of some of its members, such as the orbán government. in this context, the eu should continue to play a critical role in the trump administration's policy of providing guidance and example in the g20 and the wider international arena on migration, human rights and the humane treatment of refugees.
madam president, mr. commissioner, mr. prime minister, i have to go. i congratulate you on your ambitious plan, on the four points you have outlined. and i congratulate the first estonian presidency, and i wish this programme to be implemented as it was planned. although you mentioned that you do not want to focus specifically on brexit, you obviously acknowledge that brexit will be an inevitable factor in your presidency. in fact, i would say that since the negotiations are now beginning, it is very important to define the starting points. it is important to you, to your country, to every european country, that the status of eu citizens working in britain remains the same. i can even tell you what the position of british citizens is going to be in the european union. we need to come to a mutually agreeable agreement. he mentioned the digital economy, which i consider to be very important, as one of the ways of completing the internal market. it's 430 billion euros if we can get this program off the ground. but i would like to draw your attention to another topic that is closely related to this: the circular economy. i have a report, which is an excellent report on crop-enhancing products, the trilogy of which is about to begin. this can help to develop and fulfil this circular economy. i wish you a good presidency.
i have a question for the prime minister: we hungarians and other former socialist and communist countries are looking forward to the next estonian presidency. he was suggesting that we have a lot of common ground in our past, but he wasn't suggesting that we have a lot of common ground in our present, in our pain and our problems. in particular, the huge wage and income gaps between the central and eastern european eu member states and the western member states, which have led to your citizens - like hungarian citizens and citizens of other former socialist countries - leaving their homeland and being forced to work in other countries for higher incomes. what's your position on this? we know that estonia was among the initiators of the civil movement that fights for a wage union based on the principle of equal pay for equal work. what is your position, what is the position of the estonian presidency on this problem?
in writing. i would like to welcome the fact that the estonian presidency has made the idea of an inclusive and sustainable europe a priority. it considers it important to help citizens develop their skills so that they can become as active as possible in society and have access to quality education, jobs and services. both the hungarian government and hungarian civil society have already made a number of efforts towards these goals. building on the hungarian example, the european talent support network was established, which actively contributes to the discovery and development of talents regardless of age, gender and social background. i also welcome the establishment of the etias system as a priority in the field of home affairs and justice, which aims to identify any potential migration, security or public health risks in a timely manner. as rapporteur for this parliament, i hope that we will indeed be able to make real progress in cooperation with the estonian presidency. this system also contributes to reducing the risks posed by migratory pressure. at the same time, it is essential to ensure adequate protection of the external borders and to separate genuine refugees from economic migrants outside the eu. i hope that the estonian presidency will treat this as a priority.
i congratulate the estonian presidency on its ambitious programme. estonia is a small country, but its excellent performance in a number of policy areas demonstrates its exemplary capacity to deliver despite the size of its resources. i was pleased to read in the energy programme that further integration of energy markets is a top priority alongside energy efficiency. the estonian presidency's desire to make rapid progress in the negotiations on the clean energy package is also welcome. i would like to draw the attention of the presidency to the fact that, although much has been said and done in recent years to increase security of supply, there is still much to be done in this area. it is sufficient to think of the nord stream extension project, the implementation of which in many central and eastern european countries would reduce diversification opportunities in hungary as well. in addition to the security of supply concerns, the project's possible implementation could lead to higher energy prices, thus causing competitiveness problems. i ask the estonian presidency to support the commission in its efforts to ensure that only infrastructure that supports the objectives of the energy union and complies with the relevant standards is built and operated in the european union.
you have preceded me because i too would like to welcome a delegation: i am pleased to welcome the delegation of the japanese national assembly with you, who are now on an official visit to the 37th interparliamentary meeting between our parliaments. welcome to the club. japan is a strategic partner of the eu. we hope that the negotiations on the economic partnership agreement and the strategic partnership agreement will be concluded, after which both sides will submit them to parliamentary scrutiny. mr. president gotoda, distinguished members of the house and senate! i welcome you to the european parliament's seat in strasbourg and i wish you fruitful discussions today and tomorrow, and i hope that...
you have preceded me because i too would like to welcome a delegation: i am pleased to welcome the delegation of the japanese national assembly with you, who are now on an official visit to the 37th interparliamentary meeting between our parliaments. welcome to the club. japan is a strategic partner of the eu. we hope that the negotiations on the economic partnership agreement and the strategic partnership agreement will be concluded, after which both sides will submit them to parliamentary scrutiny. mr. president gotoda, distinguished members of the house and senate! i welcome you to the seat of the european parliament and to strasbourg, and i wish you fruitful discussions today and tomorrow, and i hope that your negotiations will be successful.
thank you so much for warning us again. the next item is the vote.
i'll close the voting hour.
madam president, please. i agree with the rapporteurs that the directive is of paramount importance as it represents the first step towards harmonising european criminal law in relation to offences against the eu budget. i particularly welcome the fact that parliament has established the legal framework for the activities of the european public prosecutor's office, that it defines the powers of the prosecutor and that there has been an important breakthrough in the area of crossborder vat fraud. i am pleased to see that the majority of member states take the fight against corruption seriously and are committed to tackling crimes affecting eu funds. however, i regret to say that hungarian does not belong in this club.
madam president, please. i voted in favour of this motion because it sheds light on a number of issues that are not necessarily known to the public, such as the fact that, according to the european centre for disease prevention and control, one in seven people living with hiv do not know whether they are infected or not, because it is estimated that, on average, four years pass between infection with hiv and diagnosis. in addition, tuberculosis, which is not an airborne disease, is a cross-border health threat in a globalised world where population mobility is increasing. the report rightly draws attention to the problem of co-infections, particularly in the case of tuberculosis and viral hepatitis b and c, as tuberculosis and viral hepatitis are very common and have a rapid course and result in higher morbidity and mortality rates.
my fellow members of parliament! i believe that the world will be changed by people who have their minds and hearts in their right place. to my surprise, i found such a man even in the juncker commission: commissioner andriukaitis, a lithuanian national who is responsible for health. i was deeply moved when i wrote him a letter about a tragic death - the death of an 18-year-old boy in hungary from a contagious meningitis. by the way, there were several other cases that followed. i've asked you to take action to make vaccination mandatory. i am also grateful to the commissioner for his testimony of such human greatness and, which is also exceptional in the commission, for his professional knowledge as a doctor, that i believe that as long as he is a member of the commission responsible for health, i can vote for the report on taking stronger action against infectious diseases, because he will put himself out there, thank him again.
my fellow members of parliament! the european commission has taken the european citizens' initiative, launched by representatives of eight former socialist or communist countries, by surprise, to address the huge income and wage gap between the west and the east, which is forcing many people from the eastern and central european member states to leave their homelands, leading to tragic situations in families and, therefore, in different jobs. well, i missed the commission's 2018 work programme to start addressing the phenomenon that affects many member states. so you say, i'm going to put together a serious professional committee, and i'm going to start exploring the reasons, the solutions, to close this huge gap between western and eastern wages and incomes.
madam president, please. i voted in favour and, during the plenary debate, i confirmed the key role of agriculture and rural development in the budget. areas such as active farmers, producer groups, the fight against unfair trading practices, market monitoring centres, phytosanitary measures and the smart approach provide significant security. i would point out that brexit will also have a serious impact on this area, so this issue should be put at the centre of the 2018 budget and it should be examined whether the member states' contribution to the eu budget, which is currently 1% can be increased to 2%. the report also highlights the importance of pilot projects and preparatory actions, which are essential tools for defining policy priorities and preparing new initiatives that can become permanent union activities and programmes, such as the concept of smart villages.
madam president, i had to double check but indeed this report says in point (al) that there should be more open expression of opinion, especially by citizens, in the context of migration. indeed, go ahead, dear citizens of the european union, express your opinions like we did in hungary. this reminded me of, for example, the population of the small jewel called martonfa, a community near the town of pécs, who said, ‘we do not want a migration camp or a migrants’ camp here and we shall stay here in this territory and we shall not leave until it is decided that there shall be no camp here’. what was the result? the hungarian government decided to watch our borders instead of putting camps into beautiful areas of hungary. do the same.
we're at the end of the voting.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, seb dance, for his excellent cooperation and marvellous work. the set of sdgs creates a very important guide of action for environmental, social and economic development, good governance and poverty measures, but is the eu really prepared for a thorough implementation of the sdgs? that is really the question. in the committee, we have concluded a very good report, and i hope that parliament will remain strong and united at the plenary level and maintain the position as expressed at committee level. i would like to draw your attention to some specific points. first of all, i argue specifically for due consideration of the social aspects of the sdgs and specific action for vulnerable groups. there are several deficiencies, also within the eu, in access to water, sanitation, along with other natural resources and basic services, such as air, water, affordable and sustainable energy, health and nutrition, which particularly hit vulnerable groups. the commission and the member states must urgently ramp up their efforts, correct these deficiencies and provide specific tailor—made support for marginalised, low-income households and groups like the roma community within the eu. moreover, there is a broad agreement on the need for a comprehensive eu strategy for the implementation of the sdgs. last but not least, there is a pressing need for systemic screening of eu policies and public funding to be in line with the sdgs when we spend the eu’s public money.
my fellow members of parliament! as the people's party responsible for the opinion written by the committee on development, let me draw attention to the development policy aspects of sustainability. climate change is one of the biggest challenges of our time, posing a serious threat to all of us in the long term, but its effects are primarily affecting the poorest and most vulnerable. the depletion of resources due to climate change is exacerbating economic and social tensions already present in these regions. millions of people make the perilous journey to the developed world, but most of them end up in camps rather than finding a new home. this family-breaking, often life-threatening migration is not a real solution for development policy or sustainability. the conditions for living must be created locally or in certain regions. the european union must develop sustainable international development programmes that take as partners not only so-called civil society organisations but also various religious organisations and churches with huge traditions in the regions and often thinking of millions as a single organisation. this can also be considered as part of development, sustainability. the only realistic solution is to move from the compulsion to accept, which is the result of post-colonial trauma, to the creation of a culture of help on the ground in the regions concerned, which is the basis of sustainability.
in writing. as recognised by article 349 tfeu, the eu's outermost regions have a special status and we therefore need to pursue a specific innovation policy tailored to their specific circumstances. in addition to their geostrategic importance, these regions have a number of strengths, including the appropriate exploitation of renewable energy sources, the blue economy, research and development and tourism. the promotion of sustainable development in the regions concerned requires long-term investment, modernisation of traditional sectors, support for and competitiveness of local production and the creation of new jobs, especially for young people. digital coverage and international infrastructure accessibility also contribute to the local standard of living. in addition, it is essential to establish further investments in the maritime and ocean sector, to continue the successful posei programme and to prevent agreements with third countries that reduce market segmentation and competitiveness and the monopoly of large monopolies. in addition to the role the union has committed itself to, there is a need for the member states concerned to take responsibility. thank you for your attention.
madam president, ‘i have no enemies and no hatred’ wrote liu xiaobo in his nobel lecture in absentia in 2010, while serving his 11-year prison sentence for inciting subversion of state power. today the words of the nobel laureate and the empty chair at the ceremony resonate strongly. diagnosed as terminally ill, he is now on medical parole but remains under tight control, and his wish to get medical treatment abroad has been rejected. for beijing, china’s best known political prisoner and civil rights campaigner is simply a criminal, but for chinese civil society and human rights defenders he has been the greatest source of inspiration in their peaceful struggle for democratic reform in communist china. he continues to be a source of inspiration for all of us who have embraced human rights, the rule of law and democracy and rejected every form of totalitarianism. this is the only path we can follow as partners of the chinese government and the only path that can guarantee the protection of human dignity.
my colleagues, my dear officer. for the sake of greater emphasis, i ask you, as my colleagues from two former socialist countries have already asked me: commissioner, is it possible that there are lower quality foods in former socialist countries, such as my country, hungary, under the same name as in the western member states? have you done any research on this? do you know about this? so a particular commodity has a certain name, a very different quality in, say, austria than in hungary. the brazilian food scandal: is it not bizarre, let us put our hands on our hearts, to talk about the possibility that eu citizens were poisoned by meat from brazil? why don't we eat meat from our own farms in our own country, inspector, as a doctor, wouldn't you recommend that your patients eat healthy food from local farms?
my fellow members of parliament! during the period of conscription under the warsaw pact, we heard many funny and less funny anecdotes from our male classmates and friends. one of them said, i remember very well, that his military commander shouted to him, "run, the italians are coming!" and this guy, this typical intellectual university student, he runs, and then he looks back and says, "there's no italians coming, why should i run?" now, i ask you, what is this eu quasi-army going to tell the soldiers under training who to run from? so i think it's perfectly logical that mrs. von storch would ask who the enemy is. who is the enemy? who will this european army, built with a lot of money, be up against, and what will they know that nato doesn't? so please take the question and the objection seriously.
mr. president, i think it's sad that we still have to debate whether the istanbul convention should be ratified. we know very well that gender equality, women's equality, is one of the fundamental criteria of democracy. violence against women is not just a women's issue, it is not a private issue, it is a public issue that poisons, violates and destroys democracy. a social problem requiring complex legal, social, health, educational and cultural measures and their implementation. therefore, all member states should ratify the istanbul convention without reservation. i am very sorry that it is the hungarian government that is not willing to do this, and is going in the opposite direction by trying to restrict women's reproductive rights, by trying to set up russian-style dissuasion centres, dissuasion centres for abortion. i think that this is unacceptable in any european country, and that is why we must ratify the istanbul convention.
mr president, i would first like to say that i fully agree with the commission's proposal that the eu should join the istanbul convention. the interim report rightly calls on the member states to ratify this convention, which has already been signed by all the member states but ratified by only 14. unfortunately, my country, hungary, has not yet done so, because the government, despite many hungarian parliamentary initiatives, does not put this issue on the agenda. so we need to do more. over the years, more than a thousand women in the eu have been killed by their husbands, partners or relatives. and that's just the number of domestic violence, which is more than -- it's staggering, but i have to say -- more than the number of victims of equally horrific terrorism. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to address you. the main message of today's debate is clear: zero tolerance for violence against women, this is the first step on this road and i personally would like to go further, zero tolerance for violence against women, children and the elderly. and to conclude, a personal note: i am pleased to say that i gave this speech on the birthday of my beloved wife, xenia.
mr president, i would also like to remind you that aviation activities are an important factor in greenhouse gas emissions and their level is constantly increasing, despite some good practices by some major airlines. various reports, such as the one on the aviation strategy for europe in 2016, and the connected opinions, such as the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, recall that any amendment to the existing legislation on including aviation in the eu ets can only be considered if the so-called global market—based measure is ambitious and if it can be carried out as soon as possible. in my opinion, any kind of derogation from extra eea flights should be limited, for example in time, and the environmental integrity of the new scheme has to be properly assessed before any further derogations from the eu ets are granted.
on behalf of the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lulucf regulation is one of the key issues in european climate regulation, as we know that forests and land use change have been responsible for around 40% of global emissions over the last 100-150 years. so we have to look at this regulation as being of critical importance in terms of climate change. but i also often find that when we talk about the lulucf sector, our approach is kind of backwards in a weird way. instead of looking at how we ultimately affect the climate, the climate change, the carbon emissions of forests and land use, we're debating technical issues, we're debating technical accounting issues, instead of looking at how we ultimately contribute to preventing climate change. the commission's proposal is a good attempt to find a compromise between different points of view, but it has a number of shortcomings. far is not far enough in my judgment, but it is also an opportunity to come to some common ground. the envi resolution goes one step further than the commission and authorises further emissions in this area. but it's also a step forward. i think that the position of the envi committee is the ultimate minimum that can be reached, and we cannot support any change in this difficult compromise in the european parliament, and i ask you to support it.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. the proposed legislation on the management of greenhouse gas emissions and removals related to land use, land-use change and forestry in the 2030 climate and energy framework broadly complies with the conclusions of the european council of 23-24 october 2014. the launch therefore corresponds to the political framework set by the heads of state or government. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the paris agreement and the progress made in the implementation of the paris agreement. however, at the level of the detailed rules, i would like to draw attention to the provisions on accounting for managed forest land. the reference levels should be set so that the management period underlying them is as close as possible to current data, reflects the forest management trends of a given country and does not limit the future forestry policies of that member state. the european commission should not be given the right to arbitrarily override forest reference levels set by the member state, but should take into account the opinions of experts, as in the case of reviews. i believe that the compromise reached by my colleague, mr norbert lins, is closer to these ideas than the original commission proposal, and i therefore support his report.
madam president, this report has been a long time in the making, meaning that, as shadow, i have had very fruitful engagement with mr giegold, to whom i give my congratulations. it is an important report and, in a way, i think the time taken underlines this. transparency is the central part of democracy, and this has to be the starting point. the problem is that there is a point where transparency comes into conflict with privacy and confidentiality, so any regulation of transparency has to establish an equilibrium between the two: between openness and confidentiality. at the same time, it must also pay heed to security and to those seeking to breach that security. i think the report achieves this. i am very much in favour of it. my thanks to mr giegold.
madam president, on 1 september the association agreement between ukraine and the european union entered into full force. article 4 of the convention includes the protection of civil and minority rights and non-discrimination. however, with the law on education adopted on 5 september, ukraine violated these principles and obligations, as its article 7 abolishes the right of ukrainian hungarians, romanians, bulgarians, poles, slovaks to study in their native language at all levels of the education system. the act therefore contradicts the constitution of ukraine and its international obligations. it damages relations with neighbouring countries that support it, and calls into question the sincerity of europe's integration efforts. this legislation will have serious consequences for national minorities living in ukraine, tens of thousands of children, parents and teachers will be deprived of their rights, second-class citizens. i ask the leaders of the european commission and the european parliament to use their influence to prevent the president from signing the law in this form and referring back to the revision of article 7, which will lead to the closure of 120 romanian, 100 hungarian and 5 polish schools.
madam president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to two scandalous cases of violation of the law involving hungary. the most dark stalinist times are recalled by the recent amendment to the ukrainian education law, which would deprive minorities - including hungarians and romanians - of the fundamental right to learn in their mother tongue. both the hungarian and the romanian governments strongly object to this. the illegal and discriminatory closure of the hungarian-language roman catholic high school in marosvásárhely echoes the spirit and methods of the assimilation policy of the national communist ceausescu dictatorship. romania must not apply a double standard in its domestic education and in the ukrainian minority education! i ask the parliament and the president to intervene to ensure the linguistic rights of ukrainians and to resolve the situation of the romanian school.
in writing. by 2020, wifi4eu will support the establishment of free wifi hotspots in local communities (in public spaces, parks, hospitals, libraries and other public places) across the union. the wifi4eu initiative is a highly forward-looking initiative, as free wireless internet access in public areas benefits all citizens. the union will provide eur 120 million to implement the initiative, which will finance the equipment needed for public wifi services in 6-8000 municipalities. public authorities (local authorities, associations of local authorities) can apply for the programme if they wish to provide free wifi access in public areas not covered by such service, either public or private. i am pleased that the negotiations between the eu institutions have managed to strengthen the geographical balance between member states in terms of access to resources. the wifi4eu initiative is in line with the digital wellbeing programme's goal of making the internet accessible to all, and i therefore support the idea of as many hungarian public administrations as possible applying for the programme.
in writing. welcome to the first reading of the agreement. wifi4eu is an initiative that helps to achieve our main goal of making the internet accessible to all european citizens. of course, we don't need to think about a revolutionary change right now, but i'm confident that some small, local communities can benefit significantly from this initiative and make their lives easier. the proposal includes a geographical balance in the distribution of financial support. this is also important because the quality of coverage in rural areas remains significantly lower than in the city. i am particularly pleased that the regulation emphasises the priority given to local smes in the implementation.
in writing. states that recognise the importance of spreading digital technology in all areas of life are successful. and not just in the capitals, but in the suburbs. that's why it hurts that according to the latest measurements, in 2017, one fifth of hungarians have never used the internet. the situation is even worse if we look at rural areas only: three out of 10 people in the low countries and the south of the danube do not have an internet connection. and only a third of the poorest hungarians have access to the internet. that means 2.5 million people are not getting a chance to participate in the digital world. the spread of the internet and digital technologies is not an end in itself, which ends with more computers or larger monitors in homes, in schools. digital tools enable the expansion of opportunities, the expansion of job opportunities, lifelong learning and the creation of equal opportunities. if you have the internet, it's easier to find a job, work from home, learn a foreign language. in the 21st century, the internet is a fundamental right, essential for participation in the information society, for eliminating inequalities, for personal development. that is why we have long advocated that the fundamental right of access to the internet be guaranteed at eu level.
madam president, the regulation on the security of gas supply clarifies several important and useful technical cooperation issues. at the same time, it is clear that the basis for security is whether there is enough energy and whether there are enough alternating transport routes. it is quite clear that the european union cannot give up russian gas, so safety would be represented by alternative routes, and it is therefore incomprehensible that the european union has thwarted south stream due to different competition rules, while allowing north stream 2, which is not an alternative. the current regulation infringes the principle of subsidiarity in several respects, the regions to be created in the event of supply disruptions would be established by the commission on a delegated basis, and the european commission also has a practical veto on cooperation with third countries, which infringes the autonomy and interests of the member states.
madam president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank mr buzek for his work. he had a lot to do, because the first proposal that the commission put on the table was unfortunately bleeding from several wounds. examples include the ill-considered list of regions, the double-counting of reporting obligations and the weak definition of solidarity actions. the report shows significant improvement on all these points. instead of pre-established regional groups, regions are developed along the lines of risks. the compromise figure reached on the reporting threshold dispels any appearance of a difference between the old and new member states. for solidarity actions, the description of the conditions under which and how member states are to assist each other is much more detailed. i believe that guaranteeing the security of gas supply in europe is a matter that we must constantly deal with. with more and more experience, the revision of the security of supply regulation will therefore be a permanent task. however, it is safe to say that this report will further strengthen the regional cooperation and solidarity that is so badly needed in the energy sector, especially in the countries of east-central europe.
mr. president, we are discussing a very, very important european regulation today. this debate here in the european parliament is about how we can provide cheap and safe gas to people in europe. natural gas prices in europe have fallen by almost half in recent years, but hungarian people are still paying the same price as they were three years ago. the difference between the two prices was transferred to swiss offshore accounts. fidesz, under the banner of regime lies, is charging every hungarian family a surcharge of 23,000 forints for gas every year. if it weren't for this corrupt pricing in hungary, every hungarian family could save a month's heating bill every year. but the reality is that you can't do that in hungary. fidesz businessmen and their russian friends made 50 billion forints in extra profits last year alone because of corrupt gas pricing. it is unacceptable that gas prices in hungary are much higher than they should be due to such unfavourable gas contracts. if we really joined the european energy union, we wouldn't have to turn off the gas in the homes of a hundred thousand hungarians every year. that's why we choose europe and the european energy union over orban's corrupt gas pricing.
mr president, the well-known egg scandal has highlighted the need not only to improve the alarm system but also the feeding technology in poultry farming, the need for european action on the withdrawal period for chemicals in the food industry and the lack of animal welfare support for poultry. the solution can only be at european level. it is time to support the common market with an even stronger common food and feed safety system. in the event of an egg-scale crisis, a multiannual crisis fund system may be the solution, rather than the current practice of annual crisis funds.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because providing free wi-fi is a big step towards closing the digital divide and creating a digital europe. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. i am particularly pleased that this has been targeted by the smart villages initiative. in addition to full internet coverage, it can be used to achieve further improvements in european villages. the 'green walls' initiative will create a living, active digital solution environment that will stop the destruction of villages, displacement and rural decline. the 'wifi4eu' programme is therefore an excellent fit for the idea of smart villages, and could be the first step towards a digital europe for many municipalities.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the signing of the istanbul convention, i would like to inform you that as a criminal lawyer and as a member of the women's rights committee, i have embarked on an important research project, the conclusions and results of which i would like to share with you. the essence of my research is this: i want to look at closed criminal cases where the victim died as a result of domestic violence, partner abuse or harassment, and i want to identify common factors in the case history. i want to establish how effective early intervention could have prevented these tragic deaths. i think it's very important that we recognize that domestic violence, partner abuse, harassment are potentially life-threatening acts, so we need to finally rise above the various ideological battles that are now gender, not gender, this party, that party, there is no place for party politics, which is why i ask everyone to come to the research report regardless of party affiliation. i'm calling you with love and i'm waiting for you.
mr president, i voted strongly in favour of the report because i agree with the commission's proposal that the eu should join the istanbul convention. it is the first comprehensive, legally binding instrument to prevent and eliminate violence against women and gender-based violence. unfortunately, hungary has not yet ratified this convention either, as its government does not put the issue on the agenda in the hungarian parliament. it seems that the hungarian government wants to hide behind the european union's skirt on this issue, that is, they want to exempt themselves from national ratification, while domestic violence kills more victims than terrorism. so let there be zero tolerance for violence against women. let this be the first step on that road. in fact, i would go even further: zero tolerance for violence against women, children and the elderly.
madam president, my country, hungary, has long said that we should focus on the roots of the migrant flood and the refugee crisis. armed conflict is such a root cause, and it is time to raise the question of responsibility. because these things are not my country, hungary, responsible for. for example, who had the brilliant idea that the assad regime in syria should be defeated and that this would require arming various groups, many of whom are terrorists? maybe those who have benefited from this should now take in syrian refugees. similarly, who figured out that iraq had weapons of mass destruction and therefore launched a bloody war against iraq? who profited from this war? maybe they should take the blame. who was it that thought that the gaddafi regime had to be toppled in libya so that they couldn't catch the black africans, the sub-saharan africans? it would be good to clarify these liability issues now and stop hungary from ... (the president cut the speaker off)
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much, congresswoman. i agree with a lot of what you said, but my question is, do you agree with this -- this was a un statement recently -- that the root causes of migration are two things: one is climate, we all know that, and the other is bad governance. and i think that's something that needs to be changed, and not just the consequence, which is migration. what do you think of that?
madam president, i have a question for ms mogherini. is hungary—bashing the one migration policy of the european union or does it have anything else in mind? is there any other strategy? make no mistake, we the hungarian people, are united in protecting our country from mass migration. we shall not give up, so you had better find something else. i would be most interested to find out what that is, because it is a fact that millions of people from faraway places have come to europe at the invitation of mrs merkel and at the invitation of the european union. this is a disaster. it has to be solved somehow. it is not the responsibility of my country, hungary. we are not the ones who are going to solve it. we are going to continue protecting our country and protecting the schengen borders of europe in accordance with our obligations. i look forward to your answer.
in writing. in her opening speech, frederica mogherini high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy reported on the increase in the number of returns of illegal migrants, the strengthening of the crackdown on human traffickers and the assistance provided to the libyan coastguard. i agree with all of these measures, but they alone cannot solve the current migration crisis. there is only one solution, and that is to separate economic migrants from genuine refugees before they enter europe. this approach was outlined by the hungarian prime minister more than a year and a half ago in his ten-point action plan, known as schengen 2.0. it must be made crystal clear that only genuine refugees and only legal ones can enter the territory of the european union. at the same time, the eu must finally acknowledge that any mandatory migrant quota scheme is not a solution to the migration crisis, as it is seen as an invitation to illegal migrants and an incentive to smugglers. even the member states supporting and accepting the migrant quota have not implemented the resettlement of the migrants sent to them, so it is possible that only 25% of the target number could be relocated a few days before the decision expired on 26 september. this highlights once again the fact that the migration quota approach is not fully suited to tackling the problem. it's not about bringing trouble, it's about bringing help.
mr president, in mr juncker’s position i think it would be a very good idea to watch television every now and then. these days, if you do so, you can see really good news from syria and from iraq. the wars are almost over, rebuilding has begun and refugees are returning home. do you not think – and please answer this question – that it is high time to fundamentally reconsider the relocation and resettlement quota idea of the european union? stop bashing hungary, stop preaching to us about solidarity, and talk about solidarity to those strong, healthy, young syrian and other men who should go home and rebuild their countries. that is solidarity with those nations.
in writing. i have repeatedly stated in my work in parliament that the european union must pursue a consistent policy towards the western balkans if it is to preserve the commitment of the applicant countries to european integration and values. the candidate countries of the western balkans need a clear message, and i therefore welcome the words of president juncker in his state of the union address on enlargement policy. i am pleased that after some previously contradictory statements, it has been made clear that the european union is ready to accept new member states in the future, that the number of eu member states is not limited to 27. this political message should have been made earlier, but better late than never. now that it has become clear that the political will is there, i would once again call on the european commission and the governments of the western balkan countries to seize this opportunity and work towards speeding up and deepening accession negotiations. thank you for listening.
in writing. the most important question today is the future of the union: whether the bloc of 27 member states will stay together or become two-speed, with those who are left behind pushed to the periphery. in his speech, president juncker committed himself to preserving the unity of the eu, a major step forward from last year's white paper on the possibilities of a european union. this means that he recognised that a multi-speed europe would cause serious damage not only to those who were left behind, but also to the 'core of europe': the former can suffer not only from the draining of eu funds, from the absence of policies that benefit them, and from the lack of a unified foreign policy. the risks for the hungarian countries are to allow the creation of a 'periphery' with political, economic and social uncertainties, thereby exposing the eu to the influence of russia, among others. it is therefore important that president juncker's sixth plan addresses not only pan-european problems but also those of the countries of the southern and eastern periphery: social problems, helping those outside the euro area, food quality, proving the commission's sensitivity to problems affecting the union as a whole. equally important is the president's warning: helping is important, but eu rules must be respected by all. it's not an option, it's a duty. president juncker's plan is welcome, but the devil is in the details. as legislators, we must therefore ensure that the 'europe of equals' is truly achieved with the participation of all member states.
in writing. the european union has faced significant, often dramatic challenges in the past year. there were many who had already envisioned the end of the union, its disintegration, its collapse. today, however, the union is beginning to overcome its difficulties. this is true even if there is little progress in the brexit negotiations and the number of refugees has not decreased significantly. the greatest threat to the eu today, however, is not these events but rather the illiberal democracy represented by the hungarian and polish governments, which is fundamentally attacking the eu, the values on which the eu is built. it is unacceptable that some member states refuse to accept the judgment of the european court of justice. the danger is not only that this ideology, based on primitive images of enemies, is easily marketable, but also that the eu has no real tools against these member states. the commission's role in the fight against terrorism is to ensure that the european union is able to take effective action against terrorism. a two- or multi-speed europe is not a real solution. the consequence of this is that the countries with anti-european governments will be left on their own. i am convinced that europe today needs not more division but much more unity.
in writing. it is time for european integration to move beyond the paralysis of recent years marked by the economic and financial crisis, the refugee crisis, brexit and other developments that have strengthened disintegration. i therefore welcome the fact that the president of the commission's report has set out initiatives for the coming period which could help to make the union more dynamic, more efficient and more transparent in a number of important areas. our urgent tasks to strengthen our international competitiveness; to defend our internal and external security together and more effectively; to have a new, functional and humane common migration policy; to reform the community budget; and, last but not least, to finally make real progress in the implementation of social europe require that the eu once again functions as a genuine community of solidarity. the selfish, nationalistic policies and the undermining of the principle and practice of solidarity by some governments in recent years should, in my view, be addressed not by two- or multi-speed integration schemes but by a shared and full responsibility for collective decisions reflecting the interests of the community. integration and the future of european citizens may also require the enforcement of democratic rule of law and solidarity. in response to the lack of solidarity, political will and action on the part of the governments of the member states, too often manifested at council level, we look forward to further, innovative and forward-looking initiatives that put the direct interests of the population first, for which i am convinced that the commission can count on a strong ally in the majority of the ep, including the european socialists.
mr. president, to the great chagrin of the profit-hungry arms dealers, the war in syria, iraq, is coming to an end. we see moving images on the television news. in aleppo, for example, reconstruction has begun, bridges, roads, public buildings are being planned and built. so let us stop rejoicing that the court of justice of the european union has ruled in the quota case that everything is fine with this quota regulation. the facts have changed, please, in syria and iraq. it is possible to start going home, and refugees have the opportunity, indeed the obligation, to take this time to go home and work on rebuilding their country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an organic link between human rights violations and corruption, because people whose human rights are violated, oppressed, are more likely to tolerate corruption. i recall that in the first week of september two important things happened in the relations between the european union and ukraine. one, the triumphant announcement of the eu-ukraine association agreement and its entry into force, and the other, the shameful disregard for human rights and the european union, when ukraine passed a law that same week making it impossible for indigenous communities to use their mother tongues in education. i ask that all good-hearted members of the european parliament and all good-hearted states protest against this brutal violation of human rights. stop the ukraine!
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted an opinion. mr president, the legislative report before us is very important, as we all know that there is a strong link between mobility, disability and social inclusion. without freedom of communication, movement and access to services, people with disabilities cannot fully integrate into society. in order to move towards full accessibility, compatible and efficient solutions should be established and facilitated in the single market. at the same time, we must protect and safeguard the fragile drivers of innovation. otherwise, legislation may be created that only requires, but does not serve development. there are a lot of innovations that have helped my life, that are not due to legislation, but to the market. that's why it's important to find a healthy balance. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i believe that we should support, together with the council, whatever helps to achieve these objectives, and therefore all such ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. erasmus is undoubtedly one of the eu's most successful mobility programmes, having so far enabled more than 3 million students to study abroad and provided a total of 9 million young europeans with the opportunity to gain experience abroad. the european parliament remains committed to the programme so that as many young people as possible can participate and gain cultural experiences, experience, new skills and abilities beyond knowledge. the programme has undoubtedly had a positive impact on the professional and personal lives of young people not only in europe but also in neighbouring and candidate countries. the results so far show that almost 90% of all participants in erasmus vet programmes have seen their employment increase as a result of the experience. however, in the face of the continuing high unemployment rate, erasmus+ should strongly support actions to create better employment opportunities. it should be emphasised that the budget of the programme will need to be increased in the next budget period (2020-2027) and additional resources will be needed to ensure that as many young people, students and teachers as possible have the opportunity to participate in the programme.
in writing. the european parliament's report on the new european skills development has many elements that support the education policy of the orbán government. the development of e-skills, the modernisation of vocational training systems and the introduction of dual training have all been given high priority in our country since 2010. the hungarian government began to develop and implement comprehensive national strategies for digital skills and developments in e-skills years ago. currently, huf 270 billion of eu aid is available for the period 2014-2020, of which only huf 125 billion is spent by the government on infrastructure development. this means, first and foremost, new schools and the renovation of existing ones with a radically renewed educational toolbox. the remaining part will be used for content development, such as the development of digital curricula and the new national curriculum (nat). the commission will also be investing substantial amounts in the digital development of schools outside the central region, the number of mobile devices in schools will be increased and 50 000 teachers will be able to participate in further training on the use of new content and tools. however, the left-wing factions submitted an amendment at the end, which vaguely refers to the requirements for migrants, which can be interpreted in several ways, including support for illegal immigrants, which the hungarian people's party faction unanimously opposed. in view of all this, i abstained at the end of the vote on the adoption of the entire document, since a good professional report was essentially overwritten politically and irresponsibly.
it's a two-card draw. thank you very much for the opportunity, mr. representative. you mentioned the international dimension of this whole issue, at least several of these aspects. i ask you if you think that this list of countries whose interests are being harmed by this project could possibly include ukraine, given that a pipeline through ukraine would be replaced by nord stream 2, and that would easily leave the ukrainians without gas.
madam president, i believe that the eventual implementation or design of this new pipeline project will put in absolute jeopardy all the existing supply chains that have been operating more or less well. it would upset the existing structure of european gas supply to an extent that is completely contrary not only to all our policies, but also to all the objectives of the energy union. i think, and i would like to assure the commission here of maximum support, and i see that every one of my colleagues here has done this, to carry out its mandate through a completely transparent practice. i believe that the european public is particularly interested in europe's attitude here, and i think that it would be a great help in the creation of a people's europe if the commission could represent the unity that is developing in this parliament in a dignified way.
in writing. the proposal to be put to the vote aims to transpose into union law the conservation, control and enforcement measures adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. should we support the mandatory nature of recommendations, since by protecting marine fish stocks and preserving marine biodiversity and ecosystems we are in fact ensuring the future and livelihoods of our children and grandchildren, many of whom will hopefully be involved in marine fisheries? in this context, it is important to note that, unfortunately, aquaculture is currently secondary to fisheries in the eu. however, it is clear that sustainable marine fisheries cannot meet the growing demand for fishery products, and the european union must shift towards aquaculture development through a qualitative shift. this will increase the competitiveness of the sector and reduce europe's dependence on imports of fishery products. the eu produces less than 2% of the world's aquaculture fish, but it is a world leader in quality. this quality must be the basis for further work, thus helping the growth of the sector. this not only means more jobs, but also contributes to improving food security.
in writing. digitalisation and the spread of the internet are changing our lives at a rapid pace. new tools and new connections are opening up new horizons and creating efficiencies that were previously unimaginable. we're spending more and more time online, and we're seeing more and more connected devices in our lives. while these make life quicker and more convenient, we should not forget that such rapid change is fraught with danger. the anonymity and encryption that comes with the internet is a great cover. in recent years, conflicts have included armed conflict and war in cyberspace. now cyber warfare is on par with conventional weapons and every major country has its own hacker squad. however, cyberattacks are not limited to conflicts between states, but also to the exploitation of the internet by many independent and anonymous organisations, as evidenced by the data theft and ransomware attacks of recent years. in an environment of such uncertainty and threats, our priority is to protect the security of european citizens. the protection of services, infrastructure, property and personal data is as important as physical security. i believe that cybersecurity is one of the most pressing issues of our time and requires rapid and effective cooperation.
madam president, please. ukraine has repeatedly violated the principles it has committed to uphold in its association agreement with the eu. most recently, despite international protests, it passed an education law that makes it impossible to train national minorities in their mother tongue, including the 150,000-strong indigenous hungarian community. last week, ukrainian authorities denied entry to the country to kristina morvai, a member of the european parliament, allegedly for the reason of the ban, which she did not know until then, on the charge of having visited donbas in 2014 and supported the separatists. that claim is a lie. the congresswoman has never been to donbas. this is a serious provocation, which has been directed at the european parliament itself through him, and it must not go unchallenged.
mr president the european union's primary role in the brexit negotiations is to represent the interests of the 27 member states. in particular, to ensure the rights of uk nationals on the basis of reciprocity and to conclude a favourable free trade agreement. the goal is to leave with a settled agreement. however, this requires that the legitimate interests of the united kingdom be taken into account. are we fair when we expect that the jurisdiction of the court of justice of the european union will be accepted after the withdrawal? are we being fair when we want to prohibit all preliminary trade negotiations with third countries? i am here representing the interests of the eu's 27 member states, because if we want to punish the british for leaving because some people have destroyed the dream of a united states of europe, we are on a dangerous path, because there will be no organised exit, no agreement, and both sides will lose.
madam president, anyone following the relationship between the european union and the united kingdom since the brexit vote will be struck by a number of factors. first of all, why is everything in slow motion? the brexit referendum took place well over a year ago, yet the pace of discussions has been glacial. second, the united kingdom never seems to have believed that the eu 27 would preserve its unity. indeed, the uk made a serious diplomatic effort to split that unity. this failed. third, the eu’s position was made very clear indeed in the council mandate and in the various statements by michel barnier. despite the clarity, the message never seems to get through. the uk side, when it responds, does so in vague all too often unfocused language or makes complaints of inflexibility or punishment. fourth, the discussion in the uk itself seems to be entirely unaware of what the eu is saying. it is as if the uk has become another planet. from the outset, in the 1970s – and i was there – the uk never sought to understand what the eu was for. the attitude was entirely transactional. equally england – and i mean england, and not the uk as a whole – has become intensely focused on itself, thereby making it very hard to see the eu as it is, a body of values.
in writing. the brexit negotiations have been going on for more than six months, but there is still no real progress. the british prime minister's speech in florence has given some momentum to the negotiations, but there are still significant differences of opinion. this is particularly true for the approximately 3 million eu citizens living in the uk. there are growing signs that the uk authorities are already discriminating against eu citizens. that is why i support the union's proposal that eu citizens living in the uk and a collective of british citizens living in the eu should be given the same rights. this includes family reunification and the maintenance of previously acquired rights. this solution would also significantly improve the situation of hungarians living and working in the united kingdom. after all, the orbán government does nothing for these people, it has left them alone. it not only restricts their voting rights, but it also does not care about their social security. but for us, the cause of our fellow citizens in the united kingdom is an important, defining european issue. we will only vote on the outcome of the brexit negotiations if it clearly protects civil rights and ensures the rights of our fellow citizens that we have already won.
madam president, please. there are about half a million hungarians living in the uk, mostly out of economic necessity. i would like to ask for their help on paragraph 6 of the report, which i voted for, which states that the united kingdom must refrain from any administrative or other practice which hinders or discriminates against eu-27 citizens living in the united kingdom, including in their workplace. i ask our hungarian compatriots, of course we all want them to come home as soon as possible, but until that happens, inform us by email, by letter, about what these practices are, discriminatory practices, what problems they have, what difficulties they have in the workplace or elsewhere, in the public administration or elsewhere since the brexit process.
madam president, please. i agreed with the premise of this report, which is that it is unfortunate that to this day we still consider women to be almost exclusively responsible for everything that happens in the family, in the family home, in the household. we say, by some false biological difference, that women are able, able and obligated to take care of children, to raise children, to care for elderly relatives, to care for the sick, to care for a family member who may be disabled, and this creates an unbearable and continuous physical, mental and moral burden on women. it would be fundamental to change this approach, and while i agree that the union cannot impose obligations on the member states, it would be good to have some way of encouraging, in education, the media and eu recommendations, that men and women and society as partners take on these important tasks together.
in writing. every year, 15 million girls under the age of 18 are forced into marriage, which means that 28 girls are victims of this form of violence every minute and 1 girl every second. roma women across europe are subject to a complex and multiple discrimination not only on the basis of their gender but also on the basis of their ethnicity, as a result of widespread anti-gypsyism. this is why it is particularly important to give this issue a high priority in the eu roma 2020-2030 strategy. the hungarian government launched the 'women for opportunity' programme in 2012 to provide huf 1.5 billion in vocational training support to help more roma women enter the labour market. we are proposing similar targeted measures to other governments.
mr president, in december 2015, this parliament celebrated the paris summit by starting a new era in climate action. why would you do that? because they're supposed to have legally binding commitments. i've contacted the commission. i asked him how he would be able to account for president obama's leadership of the united states in the future. mr. cañete has given me complete assurance that the united states is obliged to do this. a new era began when president trump pulled the world's second largest polluter out of the paris agreement. of course the european union must do its duty, take the lead, but it is absolutely absurd that president juncker says that the european union will take the place of the united states and make commitments in its place, when we are only responsible for 10% of emissions. this would result in the complete destruction of european industry.
it's a two-card draw. mr president, madam member, you said that the time had come to act, that something had to be done, and you listed a lot of things that could be done. i respectfully ask you if you would be willing to add to this list of things to do by requiring the european union to reflect its will in its trade agreements. in particular, to make concessions, trade concessions, conditional on compliance with the paris agreement.
in writing. it will be particularly important this november to make concrete, substantial progress at the bonn meeting in order to maintain the momentum of the paris climate agreement in 2018 and beyond. in addition to the practical implementation of the agreement, one of our biggest challenges is to maintain the level of ambition and to keep the issue of climate change on the agenda. the negotiations also face the challenge of defining common characteristics of national commitments, while at the global level, the proposed management of losses and damage by developing countries is a conundrum for europe and developed countries. a growing number of citizens are taking action to decarbonise in order to become more resilient to climate change. i particularly welcome the commitment of non-state actors, such as religious organisations active in the protection of creation, to the paris agreement. it is important to harness this potential and to align it with commitments at national level. accordingly, we should assure them of our recognition and support. i believe that sound national commitments can only be defined with the involvement of the non-public and private sectors, which requires encouraging dialogue between public and non-public actors.
mr president, an airline’s operational measures cannot be influenced but, in every circumstance, airlines must act in accordance with the high standards of the consumer protection rules established by the eu. therefore the failure to inform passengers or others of passenger entitlements, as happened in the case of ryanair, is unacceptable. after announcing thousands of flight cancellations, ryanair failed to inform passengers on several occasions that they have an option to be re-routed with other airlines where there is no suitable ryanair service available within a reasonable time frame. this kind of misinformation has negative consequences beyond the damage done in the given case. when consumers are misled in such a way it discourages them from seeking access to their rights and destroys the enormous work that has been done on empowering eu consumers. ryanair must meet its legal obligations and act in compliance with eu rules, which means it must take responsibility for the re-routing of passengers, including with other airlines. however, we must not forget about the damage that has been done in the field of consumer rights awareness.
in writing. there has been a lot of talk lately about the fact that the wealthy airline ryanair has had to cancel thousands of flights, affecting the lives of tens of thousands of passengers. a few days later, the company announced an even bigger wave of cancellations during the winter schedule. the reason for this was to improve the punctuality of their flights, which had fallen from 90% to 80% in the first two weeks of september, and to switch to a new holiday system that would bring the holidays forward to the calendar year instead of april-march. the negative impact of these measures is the high number of flight cancellations. what the company must bear in mind is the european regulation 261/2004, which strictly regulates the rights of passengers in case of flight cancellations. it is very important that ryanair takes this into account and acts accordingly in the case of injured passengers. it is not enough to compensate those affected, but it must also provide, where appropriate, hotel accommodation and other services to its stranded passengers in accordance with the provisions of the regulation. and yet, there are thousands of people who may be in a situation where they've already booked their accommodation, bought their museum tickets, bought their concert tickets for specific dates. in such cases, it is important that the parties concerned are individually assessed. i can only hope that the company learns from this situation and acts with much more caution in similar cases in the future, always keeping in mind the rights and interests of passengers.
mr president, there is so much talk in this house about european values, so now it is time to act. mr timmermans, may i ask you please to make a statement – and the european council should also make a similar statement soon – that mass police violence against unarmed people does not pass the human rights law tests of necessity and proportionality. it violates european values and norms and, under no circumstances, can it be tolerated by the european union. you must make such a statement, regardless of who you think is right. whether the catalonian people are right or the spanish government is right, no justification can be made for this brutal violence. please make such a statement if you want the european union and its values to be taken seriously.
mr president all the issues at the council meeting in two weeks are very important. let me reflect on that. on the migration front, i would like to stress that the only way to have a successful immigration policy is to be based on the opinion of european citizens. we hungarians reject the policy of unrestricted immigration. we need effective but rigorous border controls, we need to help the persecuted on the ground, we need controlled protocols that focus on genuine refugees. economic migrants, in accordance with the wishes of taxpaying citizens, should be returned to their country of origin as soon as possible. i would like to refer to the recently adopted ukrainian education law, which unacceptably curtails the right of the hungarian, slovak, romanian and polish national minorities living in transcarpathia to use their languages. i very much hope that the european council will address this deeply unlawful situation at its meeting and send a clear signal to the ukrainian authorities. as regards digital europe, i would like to stress that it can only succeed if services are made accessible. the first reading of the accessibility package was adopted by the european parliament last month, at its september session, and i therefore ask the presidency to adopt its position as soon as possible so that the trilogue can start as soon as possible.
it's a two-card draw. - mr president! and thank you to your colleague for answering my question. you were right to say that the laws, the european laws, must be respected by everyone, including governments. it is important that you mention this, but will you tell fidesz, who is sitting in the ranks of the people's party, that the hungarian government has been conducting such an amazing campaign of lies with the european union in recent days, especially about refugees, which, how to say, where else reminds me of the nazi times, and i just ask [...]
mr president migration and refugees will continue to shape european policy for a long time to come. that's why we're faced with a double task. on the one hand, the construction of a common european asylum system must continue, an effective european asylum agency is needed, the dublin convention must be reconsidered and the pending asylum files must be closed as soon as possible. a common european model of social integration is urgently needed, as this is the only way to avoid radicalisation and the subsequent serious social problems. on the other hand, we must stand up to governments that use refugees for selfish and often lowly political purposes with much greater determination than before. nothing does more damage to europe than fear-mongering, hate-mongering, xenophobia, and narrow-minded nationalism. of course, we have to find compromises, but compromises have their limits. if we make too many concessions to governments that are leaning to the far right, we are giving up our own identity, we are denying our own traditions.
in writing. a new europe is being born in the west. the french president announced a united states of europe, backed by the d.c. last week, with a joint army, border protection, a european finance minister. today, there are two types of eu member states: smaller eu member states and those that do not yet know they are small. germany, for example, the largest state in europe, is only a mid-sized province of china. the european union is the common destiny and future of the european states. if there is a union, there will be european prosperity, a social network, universal health care. if not, we can say goodbye to everything. nationalist nostalgia is not going to help with russian aggression or chinese investment. this false nostalgia, this search for enemies can distract us for hours, but the european union is our only chance against the rising powers. some in the east are attacking this last chance for purely short-sighted political gain. the proposals announced by the french president have been supported by the dk since 2014. europe and hungary have only one viable path, and that is the creation of a united states of europe. that is why i support proposals such as the creation of a european university, a european fbi or a european monetary fund.
madam president, please. the european commission's objectivity study carried out in accordance with the rules in force found that certain inaccuracies in the legal provisions led to different interpretations by the national authorities, in particular as regards whether the scope of the directive covers smaller vessels or other types of vessels. the european commission is now tasked with simplifying and clarifying the requirements and has therefore launched a comprehensive review. i agree with the rapporteur that the main objective of the regulation on the safety of passenger ships should be to ensure that passengers and crew can travel safely in the union on board passenger ships. i voted in favour of the report for all these reasons, among others.
madam president, please. i voted in favour of the report on the registration of persons arriving in or departing from ports of the member states on board passenger ships. i agree with the updating, clarification and simplification of the current rules and record keeping for passengers and crew travelling on board passenger ships, which is expected to lead to an increase in the level of safety. i therefore find the commission's proposal for a digital notification through a national window system for long-haul travel useful, while sharing the rapporteur's views on the protection of passengers' personal data.
madam president, please. i was hesitant about this report, and mainly because it didn't deal at all with the kind of de facto child marriages that are common in my country, hungary, especially in roma communities. so this is not about de jure, legal marriages, but it's about de facto, actual situations where girls of 14, 15, 16, 17 years of age are forced indirectly, not by any physical coercion, but by indirect coercion, by so-called customs or traditions or traditions, to drop out of school, to have children, to run a household, to raise children, and thus to lose the opportunity to live differently than their mother's generation, their grandmother's generation. the most important guarantee for the rise of roma and especially roma women is learning, education, skills, and this requires breaking these centuries-old traditions. i would like to see more practical guidance and advice from this report.
in writing. it is a little known fact that in the run-up to the catalan referendum on 1 october, amidst the harassment of catalan government officials and threatened mayors, the spanish parliament voted 166-158 to reject a legislative resolution in support of the repressive policies of prime minister mariano rajoy. like the majority in the madrid parliament, the other democratic countries of europe and their citizens cannot agree with the repressive and violent methods used by the spanish authorities and the forces of repression against the catalan electorate in sunday's referendum. i share the view of a considerable number of members of the european parliament that i strongly condemn the violent acts committed by the spanish police. as a believer in full and effective minority autonomy, i urge a peaceful settlement of the spanish-catalan relationship through negotiations.
in writing. the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the eu budget. the regularity and efficiency of the use of resources and the management of each institution shall be checked during the closure of each financial year. the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2016 shall be opened by the presentation of the annual report of the european court of auditors to the committee and then to the plenary. it is a very important result that for the first time since 1994, the european court of auditors has issued a non-negative opinion on the regularity of the underlying transactions for 2016. the commission should be able to verify that the expenditure under the control of the member states is not affected by the error rate. the european court of auditors has stated in its report that the union's accounts for 2016 give a reliable and true picture of the union's financial position. as the person responsible for several final accounts in recent years, i consider the discharge procedure to be a very important parliamentary instrument of financial control to ensure the regularity and efficiency of the community budget.
madam president, please. corruption, tax evasion and organised crime have long ignored borders and cannot therefore be tackled only within the member states. this is why the european public prosecutor's office had to be created, because the european public prosecutor's office allows us to fight corruption much more effectively. we know that despite all the efforts of olaf, there are prosecutors in some member states who, for political reasons, refuse to actually investigate corruption allegations. i don't have to go far for specific examples, but my country, hungary, is perhaps one of the saddest examples in this respect. in recent years, out of the 22 cases proposed by olaf, the hungarian prosecutor's office has actually opened investigations in three cases. in these cases, it was always eu money, european taxpayers' money, that the hungarian government uses to build illiberal democracy, not for the good of the country. the commission has also requested the hungarian authorities to provide information on the case.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this very interesting and important debate. i will react to what we have just heard. this is eu money and it requires a response from the eu institution. i think that is very clear. in the eu we see that crime is on the rise, cross-border crime is on the rise, we see permanent structures working against our interests, against our taxpayers’ financial interests, and we need to come with a permanent structure. this is a very practical response we are coming with. this is a very important moment for me too, because i worked for many years in cohesion policy, and i always found this to be a policy which is driven by a very strong ethical impetus. there is solidarity in it and there is a very strong, legitimate expectation from the european taxpayers that we will guarantee the protection of their money; and we have to do that! this is what we are doing now by the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) which is not replacing national prosecution services. it is going to work in a very strong synergy with national prosecutors, which will come into play in cases where the national prosecutors cannot come with an efficient response. here we heard a lot about the missing, non-participating countries. three countries – the uk, ireland and denmark – have a permanent opt-out from criminal justice policies. what about the remaining five countries? i had to convince many more than those five, where we have failed for the time being. this was a very important time when, yes, we had yellow cards and it forced me to go to the national parliaments and have very intensive communications with the national authorities, national co-decision-makers in the field of the fight against crime, arguing that this is a very important step forward. i had to bring a lot of arguments, facts, figures. you mentioned eur 500 million. i will add eur 50 billion which we have as an estimation of the cross-border carousel vat fraud. that is why it is very important that we added this cross-border carousel fraud under the remit of the eppo. this was a real game-changer, and i must again thank those who worked on the fifth directive when we added this to the remit of the eppo. we had to solve the unsolvable problem: we had the duty or the task not to touch the national criminal prosecution, because the eppo will work under national criminal prosecution rules; and i am sure we have managed to do that. so, what about the missing member states? i will keep trying to convince them. from sweden and the netherlands i heard the arguments: our prosecution works well. i have to be better in explaining that this is not about well or badly functioning prosecution services, it is about guaranteeing the protection of your taxpayers’ money. so this is my task for the near future. on poland and hungary i have never hidden that i see the need to take the eppo as a factor in the negotiations on the future multiannual financial framework and for the possible future cohesion policy. i will be very strong on this because i am convinced that the eppo will work as a very strong deterrent and, let me use the word, repressive body. if a member state does not have the eppo then we will have to be much stronger in preventive action. already now in the cohesion policy, in structural funds distribution, there is a lot of control, a lot of audit, a lot of preventive measures, and still you see so much fraud and corruption in it. for the member states which will get the cohesion fund money and will not be under the eppo we will simply have to be much stronger in enhancing this control and audit. this will be my effort for the months to come when we discuss the future cohesion policy. thank you very much for your support. i hope the vote tomorrow will reflect the mainly positive debate here in parliament, and i will keep you informed about the next phase – after, i hope, having the final adoption by the council – about the practical steps towards the implementation of the regulation and full functioning of the eppo.
in writing. i agree in principle with the objectives behind the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office (eppo). however, respect for the principles of subsidiarity and efficiency must be a matter of paramount importance, which is why hungary has decided, along with a number of other member states (such as the netherlands, sweden, malta, poland, denmark, ireland and the united kingdom), not to participate in enhanced cooperation. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office - as an independent institution - raises the question of its compatibility with the fundamental law in my country, since according to the fundamental law the hungarian public prosecutor's office is the exclusive enforcer of the state's criminal claim. there are several eu institutions, such as eurojust or olaf, which deal with the perpetrators of crimes against the eu's financial interests, and these should be strengthened rather than creating a new eu institution.
in writing. the european public prosecutor's office is the first eu body to be able to protect the financial interests of the union through the means of criminal law. this is a major breakthrough, even if not all member states are joining the eu-wide law enforcement organisation. the eppo is responsible for the prosecution of all criminal offences in the country. but that is not true. the existence of the eppo does indeed affect the sovereignty of the member states, but in the area of criminal offences that are not currently prosecuted at all or not effectively by the member state authorities. for example, the circle of cross-border vat fraud. the commission has also received comments from the complainant, the complainant's representative and the complainant's representative. but we can't afford to be inconsistent. i therefore call on the commission and the council, and on my colleagues, to allow the benefit of the eu's financial penalty system only if the powers of the eppo are accepted when the next long-term financial framework is adopted. in the absence of this, the criminal law system becomes untenable: financial crimes, including vat fraud, will then be committed not in germany or france, but in hungary or poland. and if we make eppo membership a precondition for spending eu money, we can trust that even the most corrupt governments will be more willing to comply, because they cannot afford to lose their funds.
in writing. the proposal to set up a european public prosecutor's office is one of those that life has really forced to protect the interests of european taxpayers in a concrete and effective way. i therefore urge the ep's strong agreement and swift implementation. unfortunately, experience over the past few years has shown that the judicial bodies in the member states are not equipped to detect and punish abuses and fraud committed in the use of european funds, and in some cases they are not reliable. the treaty does not provide for such authorisations for olaf, eurojust and europol, as we know, because the legislator simply could not have foreseen a situation where complete corrupt mafia systems could be established within the union with government support, preying on european funds. it is a sad fact that the most obvious example of this today is my own country, the eppo's - not accidentally - non-cooperative hungary, where orbán's authoritarian, anti-european regime is based on systematic corruption, funded in large part by the embezzlement of european funds, surrounded by internal ad-hoc legislation. this practice is covered up - and not covered up as it should be - by the prosecutor's office, which is under the regime's tight political control, where olaf's inquiries are routinely blocked. i am confident that in the foreseeable future all member states, including my own country, will be part of the important cooperation that is taking place within the european public prosecutor's office.
mr president two years ago, the emergency situation in the calais port area raised a growing concern for the safety of drivers. in response to my written question on akko, the commission pointed to the importance of the eu action plan against migrant smuggling adopted on 27 may 2015 in tackling the problem. two years later, we see that trucks have become the instruments of terrorism, and professional drivers have been the victims in many cases. this only proves that the commission's plan to deal with the migrant crisis like other eu initiatives is not working in practice. we have to talk about the constant decline in the number of hauliers, the lack of supplies, the wages of hauliers and other social issues, but all this is of no use if the level of safety of drivers' work is deteriorating so much that we have to pay a hazardousness allowance to those who transport goods to the major ports of europe, such as calais. meanwhile, some member states are adopting protectionist measures to protect markets, which undermine the common market and the free movement of goods and services. we could mention the missing rest areas, parking lots. apart from being few in number, they offer no guarantee of safety for the driver or the cargo. it is well known that abandoning a vehicle raises practical, legal and insurance issues. our aim is to ease the situation of hauliers and create conditions for them that provide a practical solution, in particular through the mobility package that will be negotiated shortly. this is probably more appreciated by drivers than the efforts of the commission and some member states to force them into dubious roadside accommodation instead of their fully comfortable cabins!
mr president my colleagues! people are in prison for all sorts of reasons and situations. unfortunately, there are those who are innocent, there are those who are white-collar criminals for looting public funds. we meet few of them, and there are many, many others who have lived their entire lives, from childhood on, in an inhuman fate, and in this context have become criminals. i recently read a statement from a corrections officer who said the following: i love my job because i can help people in difficult situations to start their lives again. that's what everyone has to do, and that's what prison should do. paradoxically, as a criminal lawyer, i can say that there are many people in prison who have experienced for the first time in their lives, precisely during the criminal proceedings and in prison, what it means to be a person with human dignity, because they are treated like that for the first time in their lives. it's in the best interest of society that he's not to commit another crime after he's released, because somewhere, he's finally learned what it means to live a decent life.
mr president there are many lessons to be learned from today's debate, and i think that mrs jourová and the commission's experts will give serious consideration to the proposals we have put forward. i would like to point out another aspect which has perhaps been less discussed in the debate - and i shall nevertheless vote in favour of this report - namely, that i would like to say a few words about the fate of those who are actually innocently imprisoned, and these are children born in prison. there are many, although no statistics are available, but we often read in the newspapers that a woman is pregnant and gives birth in prison. this child, this is clearly the time that the mother was given, almost she herself will spend in prison, either in the special institution or, if necessary, left with the mother. i am absolutely in favor of leaving the children with their mothers, no matter what, and in the case of mothers, even house arrest is an alternative. but most of all, it's about creating shady environments where people with similar problems are in a group, and not mixed up, like a matricide with a traffic accident perpetrator. so, overall, this report is a step forward, and i thank the rapporteurs very much, and i would suggest that we think a lot more about children, and not just newborns, but people who might otherwise be similarly involved in this subject.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, ever since the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia, this parliament has been – and must remain – in the forefront of international protest against putin’s expansionism. as we insist on restoring the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of ukraine, we must see beyond the legal and military consequences and must keep reminding europe and the world of the human suffering and injustice the local population must endure, particularly the most daring, who challenge and fight the illegal occupation. this motion calls for our joint solidarity with the people of crimea, especially of the local tatar community whose members and leaders are moscow’s main targets in repressing and avenging opposition, similarly to representatives of the free press. the convictions and detentions of tatar leaders – who as mejlis leaders are actually our colleagues – ilmi umerov and akhtem chiygoz, as well as the journalist mykola semena, must be reversed, their freedom and human rights restored. however, their cases represent only the tip of the iceberg as far as putin’s reckless repression is concerned, marked by violence, torture, illegal detention and transfer of detainees to russia. this motion recalls the names of many other crimean tatar and other victims and as meps, we must remain vigilant and active in updating this dire list and highlighting every single case of human rights abuse. also the eu needs to further empower and supply the eeas, and support the un, the osce and the civilians in their monitoring and humanitarian efforts. indeed, putin behaves in crimea like the worst kind of occupation force, following the most appalling inhuman stalinist patterns, ignoring all norms of international law of human rights and of decency. i believe crimea is the testing ground, as far as europe’s tolerance and democratic determination is concerned. let the crimean tatars’ fate be a reminder of this to all, in or out of the eu, who still nourish illusions about moscow’s intentions, and who tend to regard the illegal annexation as a kind of fait accompli.
mr president i myself supported the adoption of this report. i consider the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office to be a very important institution, all the more so because i see that it was forced by life, that there was fraud on the european union budget at a level that no longer allowed these cases to be dealt with only within the framework of the nation-state. it is particularly painful to me that there are some countries, including my own country, hungary, whose governments have not signed or are not joining this cooperation. i can say with a heavy heart that all those who want to hide from the common european control will be deprived of the funds that this office is supposed to supervise. they're not gonna get a railroad until they realize they have a place in this prosecutorial system.
mr president, health, food safety and sustainable food production are all important aspects in relation to fertilisers. we have to state that these substances are crucial for agricultural production, but, as in many cases, their overuse can be dangerous. therefore, the precautionary principle should be first, while mitigation can be realised by smart precision techniques. i welcome the harmonisation steps between inorganic and organic fertilisers, and also the steps in the field of cadmium levels. regarding the latter topic, i think that the proposed commission timeline could be more ambitious, and i would be glad to introduce even lower levels in the eu. there are already existing low cadmium levels, for example in the case of hungary, where the limit is set at 20%, and everybody is happy. i can imagine that gradually the levels can be reduced. because of all these aspects, i am going to support the good results achieved at committee level and also the more ambitious socialist amendments.
in writing. the completion of the common market in plant protection products will improve the competitiveness of european agriculture and will enable a common minimum health level to be established in the union. however, stimulating the economy cannot be the sole objective. it is not only the workers directly affected by the regulation that need to be considered, but also all those indirectly affected by the issue. in this case, it's a very significant group: every single european citizen who eats food produced here every day. the most controversial point in the report is the cadmium levels in phosphate fertilisers. cadmium is a toxic substance to the human body that accumulates in the human body and, above a certain level, causes serious damage and cancer. it is in the common interest of all of us to keep cadmium pollution from fertilisers below critical levels, even if this step leads to a deterioration in the competitiveness of polluting plants. hungarian regulations are strict and progressive on cadmium. the gradual reduction of cadmium levels proposed by the european commission and agreed by the european parliament at committee level requires adjustment to the current hungarian level. this is the right direction and i cannot support a proposal which multiplies the carcinogens in the food consumed by the hungarian population.
in writing. the world of drugs is a rapidly changing world that increasingly threatens the physical and mental health of our children and young people. drug dealers are now present in the vicinity of our schools, where young people themselves have increasing access to these drugs. the fight against drugs can only be tackled in an integrated way: prevention, rehabilitation and law enforcement are also essential. every effort should be made to ensure that young people, teachers and parents are properly informed. it is also essential that synthetic substances, which are perhaps the most toxic, be placed on the list of prohibited drugs as soon as possible. all the time lost is measured in human lives in this area.
in writing. the hungarian minimum wage is a disappointing figure in european comparisons. almost everywhere in europe, the minimum wage is higher than in hungary. slovaks, croats and poles earn tens of thousands of forints more. the germans get three times as much, but even the slovenes get twice as much as the hungarians. the situation is further aggravated by the fact that 4 million people in hungary live in poverty, and almost 7 million people live overnight with zero savings. a german or a danish car mechanic makes three times as much as a hungarian for the same job. therefore, a european union minimum wage should be established, which would allow us to increase the wages of hungarian workers by leaps and bounds. if there is a guaranteed european minimum income at the eu level, we can dramatically improve the living standards of hungarians, they should no longer worry about whether they will get out by the end of the month. at the same time, the minimum income could also ensure that equal pay for equal work is guaranteed. the work of a slovak or a pole is no more valuable than that of a hungarian.
not only with regard to youth unemployment, but also - as mrs záborská has already mentioned - with regard to the fight against poverty, it is very important to look ahead to the digital summit in lisbon, which will take place from 5 to 7 november, and i asked to speak on this occasion because i believe it is very important that we make a strong contribution to integration, to deeper european integration, by improving the digital skills of young people, including the poorest. for example, in hungary, 94 percent of students have smartphones, and the eu could create, and has already created, by 2019, broadband, high-speed internet access in the last small village, in the last ghetto. it's time for the eu to develop a mobile app that can really start to desegregate the poorest of the poor, the young, by bringing services to these areas, with mobile apps, into the hands of children. it's very important that they play a role not only in education, but also in health prevention, training, job creation for young people.
in writing. europe's leaders have a right, albeit a belated ambition, to respond to common challenges by speeding up decision-making and better thematising them, as they have now undertaken to do by adopting the leader's agenda. the answer to the slowness of decision-making and the occasional political paralysis is not to increase the number of summits, but to restore and maintain the unity of the union, to strengthen the community method and to make majority decision-making a universal practice. in this parliament too, we have called the attention of the president of the eec and the representatives of the council on many occasions to the need to look for the real obstacle to common political will and action within the eu: the anti-european, nationalist heads of government who put their own ambitions for power above the interests of the community, such as the leaders of the current polish and hungarian regimes. unfortunately, they may continue to be and, like the obstacles to the common migration policy, they may also be obstacles to the construction of europe on other important issues that determine our common future. you will have to find a firm political and institutional solution to this at the highest political level in the eit, which european citizens will be increasingly impatient to hear through the ep. the next test of eu unity is very close at hand: the gothenburg summit and the question of the social europe are truly historic.
i voted in favour of the report on the control of expenditure and the monitoring of the cost-effectiveness of european youth guarantee schemes. the fact that the youth unemployment rate has fallen by more than 7 percentage points in the four years since the guarantee was introduced is a very important result. however, i share the rapporteur's concern that in mid-2016 there were still 4.2 million young people under 25 without a job in the eu. i agree that member states should urgently improve the effectiveness of public employment services at local level and involve youth organisations in decision-making. i also support member states to provide a comprehensive picture of the costs of implementing the youth guarantee. finally, particularly in view of the situation in hungary with regard to education and youth policy, i consider the proposal to correct the shortcomings of the national education systems to be of crucial importance, as the problems related to structural labour shortages are clearly due to poor education policy decisions.
the legal framework for the availability of fertilisers on the internal market currently applies almost exclusively to fertilisers made from inorganic materials extracted from mined or chemically produced clay. the draft proposal replaces legislation and will cover a wider range of crop products, opening the single market to the free movement of crop products made from organic or secondary raw materials. all this by harmonising the rules at eu level. i would also stress that we must take into account health and food safety considerations and sustainable food production when it comes to fertilisers. of course, these substances are essential for agricultural production, but like everything else, they can be overdosed. therefore, we must keep in mind the precautionary principle and strengthen precision farming. the report also stresses the commission's proposal in this area, which is why i voted in favour of it.
i voted in favour of the report on legal measures to protect whistleblowers in the public interest. the knowledge of the activities of the hungarian government also confirms the fact that corruption is one of the most serious problems facing the eu today. as the report notes, this costs the european union 120 billion euros a year. it would therefore be important to respond to the call in the report for the commission, after assessing the appropriate legal basis, to come forward before the end of this year with a comprehensive common legislative framework that will provide a high level of protection for whistleblowers in the public and private sectors, as well as in national and european institutions, i.e. the relevant national and european organisations, offices and agencies. sadly, at some point the physical health and life of those who uncover abuse is threatened. i therefore draw particular attention to the importance of the role of the european union in protecting whistleblowers, especially those from member states where corruption permeates the public executive and the whole of government.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would again like to thank first vice-president timmermans for the gesture of immediately coming to us with the adopted commission work programme. i am saying this because i am sure that some of our other colleagues will tell you that we do not do anything about this, except what you have said, but i think it is much worse if you know it from secondary and later sources, and we will definitely be able to learn about the details later on. however, on the general lines, i think it is very important in this last point to make some of the points of procedure clear. this year, parliament failed to adopt a joint declaration on the commission work programme, so you had to do it without parliament’s help, in a way. next year – because it is close to the election year – and the year after there is no need, according to the interinstitutional agreement, to have such a resolution. i think it is a very difficult and tiresome exercise, but we should use these two or three years to rethink what is the best way. would it be best to influence commission decisions and to have a general resolution on the whole thing every year with tiresome negotiations and with no consequences? it depends on us (i am saying this to the colleagues here), but we can also maybe find other, more flexible ways to influence this. the epp welcomed the commission’s proposal that less and better regulation is better for the legislation than in previous years, and i appreciate the discipline which the commission brought to this process by really restraining itself. having this figure which you mentioned – 80% – is really remarkable. never before has the commission, with such a high level of complacency, already reached the level of the programme which they were putting forward at the beginning of the term. that also goes to show that there is a clear attempt – albeit not always successful – to concentrate on the most important things. on behalf of the epp, we agree on the content in most cases, especially in the area of jobs: that we still have to deliver to enable companies to compete in domestic and global markets. in the area of migration, we are still in the midst of negotiations and resolutions here in parliament. but to concentrate on fighting the root causes of migration and to use the private sector in the financing of this kind of migration crisis is key in achieving development objectives, as is much closer cooperation with the neighbourhood. in the area of longer-term goals, the debate on the future of the european union has started. it was launched by the commission, and i would like to thank them for that. i would just say on behalf of my group that we are happy to engage in this debate in the future.
jean-claude juncker met the leaders of the visegrád four at a working dinner before the eu summit. understanding the position of the so-called 'non-aligned' countries, recognising that these countries do not accept the commission's migration policy, would be very important for the commission's work programme. as early as 2014, when no one had heard of the so-called "soros plan", jean-claude juncker made it clear that he saw the solution to a europe facing population decline in the settlement of migrants. the ep report stresses that migration should be seen as a positive event. if that were the case, why would mandatory quotas be required? with the european elections in october, president juncker will need a larger and larger table for dinners on this subject. but it would be nice if he could digest what was offered to him.
mr president i believe that the success of the juncker commission's entire mandate will be determined by the opinions it will deliver in two areas that i believe are of the greatest interest to the majority of european citizens. the first is the institutional package for a social europe, namely the launch of the social pillar of the eu, which i think we all are eagerly awaiting, the creation of conditions for fair and balanced european labour markets, the improvement and unification of the social and legal situation of workers, the establishment of a union labour authority, and the implementation of a number of initiatives and tasks which have long been advocated by the european left and which have now been given priority by the president. the second is to take concrete and effective community action to guarantee respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law and to ensure that they are applied in practice. equally for all member states, including the enforcement of union solidarity, where appropriate, and the imposition of penalties for its failure.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture. - mr president! i have contributed to the report as rapporteur on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development. i have thus, together with my colleagues responsible for the area, reinforced the key role of agriculture and rural development in the budget. this area, the agricultural area, contributes to the eu's fundamental objectives and that is why we cannot allow any budgetary cuts or redistributions. areas such as active farmers, producer groups, the fight against unfair trading practices, the issue of market monitoring centres, plant and health measures and the smart approach provide significant security and outreach in europe's depopulated rural areas, while ensuring that europe's food production capacity is maintained. i should like to emphasise the role of pilot projects and preparatory actions, which are of great importance in defining policy priorities and preparing new initiatives. they can help us to develop permanent eu actions and programmes, such as the concept of 'smart villages'.
in writing. the european parliament's plenary session this week will vote on its position on the 2018 eu budget: the ep would like to see a significant increase in eu funds. we are particularly pleased that, following the committee on budgets, the plenary is expected to adopt my proposal to increase cohesion funding by eur 240 million to the level of the european commission's 2018 draft. as a result of the government's efforts, a record amount of development funds will be delivered to my country in 2018, it is important that sufficient funds are available in the eu budget. the european commission shall continue to pay hungary the full amount due in 2018. the european parliament voted today on its resolution on the european commission's reflection paper on the future of eu finances. during the parliamentary negotiations on the post-2020 framework, our most important task is to ensure that as many eu development resources as possible reach the hungarian economy and that eu support for domestic agriculture is ensured.
in writing. the murder of daphne caruana galizia is both a sad and a shocking expression of the power that is at work to silence the truth. the slightest restriction on independent journalism is a serious violation of the citizens' right to free information. and where a journalist may pay with his life to expose corruption and abuse of power, the foundations of democracy are shaken. the aggression of power against the free and independent media can never go unanswered! the maltese government has to resign after failing to clear up corruption charges. and the european commission must launch an immediate and comprehensive investigation to bring the perpetrators to justice! in some eu member states, a systematic erosion of press freedom has already begun and has been going on for years. in these countries, the eradication of media independence and diversity is in the interest of power. this cannot go to the point where those who try to expose the truth to the public feel unsafe. urgent and effective action is needed to ensure that intimidation of journalists is not used as a tool by the powers that be to conceal the truth. since transparency and independent, free media are fundamental values, the preservation of which now unfortunately needs to be constantly reinforced, the green group proposes a prize, branded with the name of daphnne caruana galizia, to recognize and protect the work of investigative journalists.
in writing. for workers and their families, cancer not only causes a significant deterioration in the quality of life, but also directly costs public health care and direct and indirect financial losses. work-related cancers have an impact on the economy as a whole, reducing the labour supply and putting a burden on public finances by increasing healthcare costs. we also need to protect the productivity of ageing workers in order to create a sustainable society. however, newer specifications and limit values, such as those affecting mutagens and reproductive performance, should be realistic, reasonable and realistic. in my view, the adoption of the package does not succeed in applying all these aspects at once, since the regulation on substances that reduce reproductive capacity would require a separate legislation due to its complexity, nor has the lifelong monitoring conditional system been resolved, which puts smes in a more difficult position.
madam president, please. we all know that europe's most vulnerable and most discriminated minority is also europe's largest, in terms of numbers. it is about the roma in europe, who are citizens of the european union just like any of us. yet, they are often forced to live in very different, inhuman, degrading conditions. roma can be displaced if a municipality so wishes, roma children can be educated in dilapidated schools, segregated classrooms, roma can be arbitrarily deprived of social benefits, and hardly anyone speaks up for them. for a significant part of the roma people, europe is not a place of protection and security, but of humiliation, exclusion and hopelessness. we've told you so many times that this is morally and politically unacceptable. yet little is being done, and all that is needed is to respect human dignity, to create an inclusive society, and to integrate roma into european societies.
madam president, please. i also thank the committee for its kind words and i am glad that cecilia malmström is here, who helped a lot with the roma strategy at the time, and we already knew that digitisation was essential to fight anti-gypsyism, anti-gypsyism. i would therefore like to propose that the national equality bodies and the equinet system should indeed introduce a digital case reporting facility. i think the reason why there is so much anti-gypsyism in europe today is because there are no common spaces. my parents met at the same place, but now they miss the same schools, the same jobs. so the first thing we need to create is common spaces. we have a common history, a common economy, we have been europeans together for 800 years. roma are not indians, they are europeans, we have the right to write our own history and to teach it to our children, it is necessary that we can teach our children in our own language, and i suggest that we look at which countries are really strong anti-roma. at that time, hungary was attacked because of the hungarian guard, and we abolished the hungarian guard immediately, but it is shocking to me that in your country, sweden, for example, the nazi party was also intimidated in the street, and this is very.... (the president cut the speaker off)
first of all, i would like to thank mrs soraya post for her excellent report and for her cooperation in defending roma interests. i would like to draw your attention to one element of this report. there were views expressed in today's debate that the commission, the european institutions should not interfere in the affairs of the member states and should not comment on the issue of roma integration, these are national, national tasks. but the commission intervenes in these cases in a number of ways. in particular, by allocating and disbursing european funds for this purpose. however, the money that is used by member states to integrate roma and to contain them is often not the money that is needed. they do not reach the most vulnerable groups, they are not used properly by the member states, they disappear, and the commission must do everything possible to ensure that these funds are used in a targeted and useful way for the benefit of the roma community.
madam president, please. whatever decision is taken on the motion for a resolution, it will in any case have a serious impact on the security of the union on the one hand and on the rights and protection of the data of well-intentioned travellers and tourists on the other. however, whatever we decide, it will remain a substitute and a show-off as long as the eu tolerates the security hole in the schengen border protection system, which is the practice of selling eu citizenship for money, the so-called settlement bonds. the weakest link in this system is hungary, where the government has in recent years granted hungarian citizenship, and thus eu citizenship, to thousands of third-country nationals with uncontrolled backgrounds, often suspected of being criminals or terrorists, on loose terms, and even, not infrequently, internationally wanted individuals have received european papers. the hungarian example is striking in two respects: the revenue from the transactions does not directly increase the state treasury, but offshore enterprises, largely linked to government executives. two, the same hungarian government is now waging a relentless campaign against all foreigners.
mr. president, i have to go. it is clear from the subject that we cannot fully comply with the president's request, as the past and the future are in a battle. in the past, when politicians and so-called intellectuals who call themselves leftists and liberals used to have their pundits, their pundits, thematize public discourse on the issue of migration. the future, however, is what is happening today, and frankly, reflecting the experiences and opinions of the majority of the european population, our italian colleagues have spoken here, joined by swedes and others. here are the visegrad four, here is my country, hungary. we say yes, we need to protect europe's external borders, yes, we need to address migration at its roots and on the ground. we are grateful for the support we receive as hungarians to defend our country and europe, and we are happy to have more and more allies.
mr president in order to combat trafficking in human beings, illegal migration outside the union must be stopped. only an asylum system that can separate illegal economic migrants from those who are eligible for refugee status outside the union can be effective. it should be made crystal clear that only genuine refugees can enter or be granted refugee status in the union. any other solution is seen as an invitation to the union by the thousands of illegal immigrants. to achieve this, refugee centres should be established outside the borders of the union, where it should be possible to process asylum applications. in the meantime, we must above all protect the external borders of the union. we must also help the member states financially to protect their external borders, otherwise more lives will be lost at sea or in the desert, because we know that human trafficking has become a bigger business than drug trafficking in recent years. only then can we break down the business model and the growing influence of the smugglers who are increasingly profiting from the migration crisis.
mr president we don't like to talk about it, but we all know that the mediterranean has become a mass grave for tens of thousands of refugees in recent years. sometimes we get our heads around some terrible tragedy, but then everything goes on as before. today, it's clear that we're at a dead end. it is clear that human trafficking must be fought with all the means at our disposal. but it should also be clear that neither the most intimidating border controls nor the unjustified accusations against ngos that help refugees will solve this situation. we should finally understand that merely closing the borders, tightening the controls, is not going to solve this situation. the common european asylum policy will only be able to work if the member states finally put aside their selfish interests and want a genuine common policy. as long as we simply accept that there are member states which can refuse to participate in the common policy without any consequences, nothing will happen. and mr tusk's sympathetic comments on the visegrad countries' rejectionist refugee policy only help his common european political opponents. the european parliament has produced a number of reports, proposals and resolutions over the past year and a half, the implementation of which could create a framework for immigration and asylum policy offering regulated legal pathways. there is only one reason why there is no progress, namely that the council shows no willingness to engage in serious negotiations, no ability to reach a united position. but any further delay will be to the detriment of the smugglers, and we must know that no one, no one, can escape the responsibility of the whole, not even the council.
in writing. the fact that some airlines charge a surcharge of eur 18 if passengers do not buy a ticket through a reservation system controlled by the airline has a negative impact not only on passengers but also on european aviation in the long term. this step threatens the achievements of free competition and the single market and the restriction of flight information seriously infringes the right of passengers to free choice. the problem is not new, the €18 fee per passenger was introduced two years ago by one of the largest airline groups. and the commission, although it started investigating, it didn't get anywhere in two years. i believe that more decisive action is needed to combat such market-restrictive phenomena. we see the damage caused by national protectionist measures in the field of road transport every day. therefore, timely action is needed to avoid disruption of the single european aviation market.
officer, please. i have a question for you, please answer it. how do they decide when to take action and when not to take action in the event of an actual or alleged breach of eu standards? as you can see from their report, they never hesitate to take legal action, for example against my country, hungary, when we fail to comply with the european union's - often arbitrary - standards on migration, because we want to protect our country. it seems like they never bring a countersuit when there's a huge lobby on the other side from the banking world. i'm thinking primarily of foreign exchange credit issues. in my country, hungary, tens of thousands of people are now facing execution, the risk of losing their homes. if you look at the european union's consumer protection standards, these are just a few of them. you don't have to be a lawyer to see that these foreign currency credit banking transactions went against all the european union consumer protection standards, and that these people are now being enforced while the european union court of justice is still in the process of adjudicating these cases. please inform the hungarian public about the european union's position on this issue. thank you, thank you.
member of the commission. – mr president, colleagues, thank you very much indeed for your comments, questions and suggestions. if i may, let me start with ms hautala’s question on administrative procedures because this is a very fundamental one. the commission is committed to guaranteeing that citizens, businesses and stakeholders can interact with an administration that is open, independent and efficient. for that purpose, the commission, as well as other institutions and bodies, has a well-established set of horizontal rules which govern its administrative behaviour. this includes, among others, a strong commitment made by laying down general provisions in the code of good administrative behaviour, which must guide administrative conduct in relations with citizens, as well as a range of provisions in legislation on staff and financial regulations, on data protection and access to documents, to name but a few. in addition, the annex ‘administrative procedures for the handling of relations with the complainant regarding the application of european union law’ to the communication ‘eu law: better results through better application’, on relations with a complainant in respect of infringements of union law, specifically protects the complainant’s position in the informal phase of the infringement procedure. these measures include: first, a 12-month time limit from the filing of the complaint, within which the commission should, as a general rule, decide whether to initiate an infringement procedure or not; second, the possibility for the complainant to meet the representatives of the commission in order to present his/her argument; and, third, the requirement to give prior notice should the commission intend to close the case, thus allowing the complainant to raise new arguments within four weeks. the commission is, therefore, at this stage not convinced that the benefits of using a legislative instrument that would codify administrative law would outweigh the costs. new legislation would require the revision of a considerable volume of existing european union legislation. even when done with care and a sense of proportion, codification is likely to lead to problems of delimitation between the general and specific laws, not making legislation any clearer or litigation any easier for citizens and businesses affected. it would also remove the flexibility required to adapt to particular needs. the second question concerning the role of parliament in monitoring the implementation of eu law was raised by ms grapini. without prejudice to the democratic control by parliament, under article 17 of the teu it is the commission which oversees the application of european union law, under the control of the court of justice of the european union. the infringement procedure, under articles 258 and 260 teu, form part of a specific sui generis competence conferred directly on the commission under the treaties. therefore, the infringement procedure has a specific bilateral nature. it is conducted solely between the commission and the member state concerned. some members of parliament raised questions about greece and cyprus, especially mr marias, mr mavrides, and others. i would just say that the greek and cypriot memorandums of understanding were not part of european union law because they led to intergovernmental financial support. the greek and cypriot memorandums of understanding were only formally agreed between the lenders and the beneficiary member state. the court of justice confirmed that, when adopting and implementing measures under such an intergovernmental adjustment programme, the national authorities of the concerned member state do not implement european union law. referring to some political statements about double standards and so on, as you know very well, the rule of law, the european union treaties, procedures and competences, are enshrined in a crystal-clear legal framework. here it doesn’t matter whether it is a small country or a big country, we have the same possibility to start these procedures if the situation allows us to do it. the procedure to address infringements is the same for all countries, and the commission takes all cases very seriously, whether it concerns cases in hungary, germany, or any other country. mr president, honourable members, the commission very much shares your interest in the correct application of eu law, which is necessary for the benefit of european union citizens, businesses and public administration. the commission looks forward to continuing its work with parliament on this very important topic.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission thanks parliament for tabling this important initiative and appreciates the efforts undertaken to look into the implementation of the environmental liability directive (eld). the environmental liability directive sets the eu framework for prevention and remediation of damage to biodiversity, to water and to land. it is based on the ‘polluter pays’ principle. many findings and suggestions in the draft report and motion for a resolution are consistent with the commission’s own report and evaluation of the environmental liability directive in 2016. in the wake of that report, we are now working together with member states and stakeholders to improve their implementation of the directive, including developing the knowledge base, the expertise and administrative capacity for applying the directive. the shortcomings of the environmental liability directive need to be addressed: first, the unsatisfactory non—level playing field; second, the under-developed capacity; and third, the insufficient financial security level in many member states. the commission will work on these issues with the member states and stakeholders in the context of the multiannual work programme 2017-2020. the commission’s view is that the directive’s potential still needs to be fully exploited by making more use of it and by applying it more consistently. only after this should we consider legislative amendments. the systematic collection and analysis of data and information on environmental liability should lead to an eld information system shared with all interested member states. this would facilitate the future implementation of the directive. we will need to see how this initiative improves the implementation on the ground before considering extending the scope of the directive and before considering whether damage to air, or to health, should be covered. we have made a clear commitment to perform a new refit evaluation of the directive in four to six years’ time. that will provide the needed evidence base for future action. i thank parliament for supporting all efforts to improve the implementation of the environmental liability directive, especially in the framework of the multiannual work programme. thank you for your excellent report.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, sorry for being late; i was at the trilogue. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) participated, in accordance with rule 54, in the discussion on the environmental liability directive (eld). the eld is a key piece of legislation aiming to establish a framework of environmental liability based on the ‘polluter pays’ principle and to prevent and remedy environmental damage. as both the commission’s report and the committee on legal affairs highlighted, despite some improvements, the directive has shown incompleteness and thus limited effectiveness. implementation still varies significantly from one member state to another. we have a patchwork of liability systems, due also to the interplay with already—existing national laws, which in my opinion can undermine the common standards and expose some member states or regions to a greater risk of environmental disaster and the financial consequences thereof. as is clear from the envi opinion, better implementation of the directive, including improving the information base and providing more training and assistance to the member states – a key pillar of the commission’s action plan and multiannual work programme – is needed, but is far from being sufficient. we should address the remaining challenges in a systematic manner and revise the directive in the near future, in the light of the commission’s recent regulatory fitness and performance (refit) exercise. a revision would allow us to extend the scope and applicability of the directive by making operators of all activities strictly liable for all environmental damage they cause, which means removing the limitation in annex 3. in this context, the ini report rightly calls on the commission to impose liability for damage to human health and the environment in the future and also calls for the removal of certain exemptions. i also welcome very much the call for rethinking the financial security system, which is at the heart of the matter. this would entail high-level mandatory environmental liability insurance for operators, differentiated ceilings for activities with different risk factors and the creation of an eu—wide fund to bear the cost of relevant measures beyond the mandatory security in the event of large—scale disasters. i also stress that proper involvement of inspection bodies is key. in this context, the commission should further develop inspection support capacity at eu level and help the member states strengthen their national bodies. let me highlight one more message: we urgently need eu legislation on the minimum standards for implementing the aarhus convention ‘access to justice’ pillar.
mr president the principle behind the environmental liability directive is that the polluter pays. but in practice, there is another principle that many people think we see: that is, to privatize the huge profits and to shift the damage caused by pollution to society, to the population. we saw this for example in one of the biggest environmental disasters that happened in the recent history of europe, the red mud disaster in hungary. i congratulate my hungarian colleague, mr jávor benedek, who is well known for his commitment to environmental protection and is a good professional, on the report and the opinion. i would therefore like to ask him, given the particular case of the red mud disaster, to what extent he considered that the eu environmental liability directive was applicable and to what extent the lessons of the red mud disaster influenced this report? i strongly suspect that, for example, paragraphs 30 and 31 were influenced and motivated by all the deficiencies we have seen in the context of eu law in the area of liability related to the red crescent disaster.
mr president, i would also like to support mr preda in raising the issue of the recently-adopted new law on education in ukraine and its article 7, which determines the language of education and which restricts the existing rights of national minorities at secondary and higher level to get education in their mother tongue. the article limits existing rights and eliminates well—functioning minority language school systems, which have worked very well so far. i do not think that parliament has dealt with this issue with adequate attention. i would therefore kindly like to ask you, mr president, to address the issue, because preserving language diversity is a european value and the right to a mother tongue is a basic human right. so i would like to ask you to consider this question and to deal with it very carefully.
it's a two-card draw. madam president, i have to ask you to leave. mr. deputy, you mentioned smart cities, smart villages, and as a former mayor and later agriculture minister, you have a lot of experience. so i'd like to ask you if you're satisfied with the typological state that exists today. in the case of villages, i don't really see what the exact definition is in european nomenclature. what would you do next?
mr. president, madam commissioner, thank you for being here. first of all, i would like to stress that my colleague mr koch has put on the table a very thorough, forward-looking report with a lot of useful suggestions to consider. we all agree that safety should be a priority in transport. after all, despite all the advances in technology, the number of injuries and deaths is still very high and unreasonably high. we are talking about 135 000 and 25 000 respectively per year in the union. the report rightly states that road control needs to be increased, safety systems installed and infrastructure maintenance modernised, without which innovative systems cannot function. however, it is also a fact that the average life of vehicles on europe's roads is over 10 years, so it is clear that we are not seeing the latest cars and technologies on the roads and streets. the commission should therefore develop proposals to facilitate development and series production, thereby avoiding the practice of putting the additional costs and surcharges of incorporating the latest safety technologies on the shoulders of the end-user, i.e. the car buyer. we must work to ensure that the latest security technologies are implemented as soon as possible and as widely as possible, and that they are made available in hungarian. without mass production and distribution, we cannot expect to make rapid progress towards the ambitious targets we have set.
mr president, europe has a special responsibility in the protection of persecuted christians. i thank mr vella very much for joining this debate today with his statement. it has always been difficult to stand up for christians in this house. there are massive dividing lines among us. the epp believes that providing support for christians cannot be a matter of ideology. this is clearly a human rights, security, cultural, and of course spiritual, issue as well. but we must overcome these dividing lines. thank god we are already getting some results. last year parliament condemned the genocide by daesh against christians, but now we really must turn our political resolution into action. the eu and the bilateral diplomacy of our countries must ensure that these violations of human rights and atrocities against christians are finished. christians and other churches are often the only actors who take care of the persecuted on the spot, but they have no access to direct eu aid. this has truly been a scandal for many years now. these churches must be eligible for eu funding. for example, a reconstruction programme for displaced christians is underway in north iraq. europe must take part in financing this very concrete project in close partnership with the churches. this is our last chance to save europe’s credibility. certain states, like my country, hungary, implement direct aid on the ground for these persecuted communities. now europe as a whole must realise the historical exercise, preserving the presence of christians in their homelands.
in writing. among those persecuted for their faith, four out of five christians is the current shocking statistic in the world. it is the responsibility and duty of christian europe to stand with christians in the middle east who are persecuted for their faith. the question is how. middle eastern christian leaders themselves stress that inviting them to europe is not the solution, since these people were born there and want to live there in their homeland. so the key is to get help there, and to promote stability. because of the persecution of christians, thousands of families became landless. in addition to food, school-age children and families urgently need education and employment opportunities. if european governments act soon to provide educational assistance, it could be a life-changing opportunity for tens of thousands of young people to remain in the land of their ancestors and preserve the 2,000-year presence of christianity in the region. the hungarian government is contributing to this in erbil, where a christian school is being built with the financial contribution of the hungarian government and the catholic church. by taking such and similar steps, we can truly help persecuted christians.
in writing. my dear colleagues in the european parliament! demographic change is a decades-long societal problem with multiple and diverse causes, which requires an interdisciplinary approach and approach. it is clear that the fight against population decline must be included among the objectives of cohesion policy. in many cases, it is the economically disadvantaged regions that are most affected by population ageing, the emigration of young people from the labour force and negative natural reproduction. cohesion policy, while maintaining its essential role, can also make an effective contribution to the achievement of demographic objectives. at the same time, it is regrettable that the report mentions migration as a possible solution to reverse europe's population decline. i think it is a complete misconception that the backward regions of europe should be caught up in migration measures. in this respect, immigration policy cannot be placed before active family policy. the eu should rather look at how to re-emphasise the traditional family model and how to promote family-creating and family-supporting measures at eu level. i would mention hungary as a positive example, where these measures have been an integral part of government policy for some time.
in writing. the demographic composition of the european continent is changing, with an accelerating rate of population ageing. it is undeniable that this demographic change, the decline in the proportion of the working age population, places a significant economic, social and financial burden on member states, in particular with regard to the maintenance of the welfare state. the declining population requires a rethinking of member states' policies and the search for appropriate responses. many western european countries feel, as this report shows, that it is possible and desirable to compensate for the decline in their population by means of immigration. we in hungary disagree with that. we believe that immigration has many risks (e.g. security policy), integration is difficult and often unsuccessful, leading to the emergence of parallel societies. the solution to the demographic crisis is to increase family allowances, to put families and their children at the centre. the hungarian government is working to encourage more people to start a home and a large family. the figures speak for themselves: between 2010 and 2018, the amount of family allowances in the hungarian budget doubled, and the government declared 2018 the year of families.
in writing. the aim of the regulation amendment is to strengthen the consumer protection rights of eu citizens, with the aim of preventing cross-border infringements and enforcing the penalties imposed. it is the practice of fraudulent traders to move their headquarters to a member state where consumer protection is less developed, thereby avoiding legal consequences. in order to prevent such cases, it is necessary for member states to strengthen their cooperation in the field of consumer protection. member state authorities will be given additional powers such as the right to enter premises, search premises or buy samples, and new sanctions include the suspension or termination of a website/domain name. a common database will be set up to facilitate the exchange of information between member states in order to promote cross-border legal aid. the implementing authorities work in two-year cycles, which are also monitored by the commission every two years.
mr. president, the terrible and painful death of daphne galizia has shocked and frightened all of us - not just those who would stand up against corruption or for human rights, for freedom of the press. we'll have to think twice about how we handle these cases from now on. that you can die in investigative journalism, we knew that before, but that this is happening in europe in the 21st century... and then there's the maltese government's reaction. this is absolutely disheartening, and i would say to those colleagues who compare malta to hungary or poland that this indicates a high degree of ignorance, and i think we should reject this manipulation. a life was taken here, a woman was slaughtered, a journalist. the aim was to conceal the truth, and the commission's response was, in my view, remarkably slow. it was a huge mistake that we didn't get much clearer answers today. i would ask the commission to call for an immediate dialogue between the parties and to avoid even the appearance of judging eu countries on the basis of double standards.
mr president there is a delicate, sensitive issue with the eastern partnership countries: their relationship with russia. some of them are in conflict, and some of them are good friends. russia is the dominant state in the region, and without it, the end of the conflict, the completion of the partnership, is not possible. the american president said in hanoi that it was very important to have a good relationship with russia. will the eu now be in sync with the american mindset, as it was under president obama? the eu should also review the effectiveness of sanctions. it has not achieved its political objective, but it has also caused serious trade losses to many member countries. we shall be discussing the crisis in the eu fruit and vegetable sector caused by the russian ban here tomorrow. that speaks for itself. so the union should also rethink its policy towards russia in the context of the eastern partnership.
mr president i appreciate the regional dimension of the eastern partnership. we have to keep building on that. however, as the people's party rapporteur for armenia, i believe it is important to introduce a longer-term eastern partnership+ model for countries that are making more progress in implementing reforms. however, in order to strengthen the stability of the region, it would also be important to open this model to other partnership countries as they are ready to make increased commitments and achieve significant reform results. secondly, i raise this time the rightly controversial issue of the new ukrainian education law. i welcome the proposal that the summit's final declaration explicitly protect the rights of national minorities in the field of education. the provocative cross-carpath demonstration by the extremist ukrainian military unit karpatska szics last weekend is a warning that the european community must firmly reject the spread of ethnic intolerance and discrimination against minorities.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. china, russia or india often try to flood europe with cheap, dumped products. if this were to succeed, european industries, such as the steel industry, would collapse within days, tens of thousands of people would lose their jobs. it would affect us as well, for example, in the danube railway in dunajnovci, 6,000 jobs could be said goodbye overnight. the only reason why chinese and russian products at below-market prices can't make their way to europe is because of the european union's tough action. the eu will immediately impose a penalty duty on dumped products. europe is able to protect european and hungarian industry against emerging economies. europe also has thousands of hungarian jobs, which does not allow cheap chinese steel, for example. the eu also prevents large economies from buying up important european companies. an investment screening proposal is being prepared to prevent chinese and russian companies from taking over major european companies. so europe will protect us from having the chinese supply our electricity or the russian supply our gas. of course, in some countries, it's too late.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, according to key ngos, half of the eu’s natural areas are only protected on paper due to widespread implementation deficiencies. this action plan is an important step forward, as it aims to improve the practical implementation of the nature directives. but is it sufficient? is it comprehensive enough? despite the strong positive commitment to addressing the root problems, i think that the european commission has failed to propose actions to tackle the drivers of biodiversity loss, including agriculture, transport and energy. firstly, the commission must improve coherence with common agricultural policy and make sure that all infrastructure developments are fitted with proper environmental safeguards. financing is also a very important issue. according to an iep report, the current eu budget covers only up to 19% of the funding needed to properly manage natura 2000 sites. why does the action plan not better highlight the urgency of the need to scale up financial resources? biodiversity has to be mainstreamed in the eu budgets beyond 2020, with nature protection earmarked in each individual instrument in addition to the dedicated biodiversity scheme. my last remark: the eca found that the coordination between responsible authorities and other stakeholders in the member states was not sufficient; therefore, the commission should provide effective support to national and regional actors in the implementation of nature legislation and the improvement of environmental inspections.
in writing. there is a growing number of countries where we need to have a debate on the rule of law. the symptoms that emerge are pretty much the same: governments are constantly violating the principle of separation of powers, systematically breaking down the limits of power, the checks and balances. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. press freedom is also under threat in more and more eu countries: in malta, the country's most respected investigative journalist is killed for getting too close to embarrassing cases such as the azeri bribery scandal. in hungary and poland, the government monopolizes the media market, degrading the dominant part of the press to a simple propaganda tool. russian propaganda and fake news is spreading across europe, influencing elections, referendums. the european commission, meanwhile, is throwing its hands up, saying, "sorry, that's a member state responsibility". but without a free press, there will be no democratic member states, and without them there will be no democratic or any other european union. the eu cannot afford to actively withdraw its share of the protection and support of independent media and fact-finding. the commission must indeed make it part of its task to protect the rights of journalists, to protect media pluralism, both through legal means and financial resources. the long-term budget for 2020 should find ways to support media pluralism in the long term and on a broad scale, but urgent action is needed within the available framework.
in writing. the rule of law is the most important principle of the european union. when the rule of law is threatened, democracy is threatened, human rights are threatened. the rule of law guarantees the independence of the judiciary, the media, freedom of expression. today, all of this is in danger in poland and hungary. we cannot avoid asking what the european parliament, the european union, should do in this situation. first of all, we must negotiate and try to persuade the relevant governments to return to europe. but if that does not work, we must not shrink from taking stronger, tougher measures. what awaits europe if we are not consistent is well illustrated by the events of last week in warsaw. where 60,000 recruits marched shouting "white europe", "pure blood". the darkest traditions of european history have been revived, and they have struck fear into the hearts of millions of european citizens. i am ashamed that hungarian politicians were also present at this event. and this shameful event was called by the polish government an act of patriotism. but it is precisely in this way that the policy of exclusion and exclusion of the new nation is accepted. we in the european parliament have a fundamental political and moral duty to condemn these events in the strongest possible terms and to oppose in the strongest possible terms those governments which use these events to turn against europe.
madam president, please. it is still very, very difficult to speak in this way when there is still a lot of noise in the chamber, since it is an exceptional situation that the members are present and are leaving at the time of the vote, and i would ask the president to be patient with us, perhaps to wait a few more minutes, it is very difficult to speak in this way and we are also offending our constituents by talking about important matters in such circumstances.
madam president, please. this report on the state of europe's environment, on pollution, on the destruction of nature is shocking, but we must realize that this is a direct consequence of the economy and the nature of the european union. the european union is clearly not supporting local economies, but we see that the air is polluted by a sea of trucks and airplanes in the so-called single market, because they transport goods - particularly agricultural goods and crops - from one end of europe to the other, in a completely unnecessary way. it is a very good thing that it could be produced and cultivated in the member states, and, speaking of agriculture, the report talks about how much land is being used for crops or how good it would be for the environment to have grazing livestock. but, please, all of this is in contradiction to the european union itself, which, for example, has an agricultural subsidy system that supports industrialized agriculture that also exploits the environment.
madam president, please. i voted against the shameful report condemning poland, of course. you know, my dear members, we hungarians and poles do not like to be taught democracy by people who, in their own member states, ignore the basic interests of their own people and ignore the will of their own people. what do these people know about democracy? as anyone who is blind can see, this shameful scheme is bringing migrants from the far corners of the world to europe, and local people are protesting against it with increasing desperation. we hungarians and poles see with sympathy the destruction of settlements, of people's lives, of people's sense of security in western europe. hungary and poland are resisting, it's obvious that we're being punished for it. but they can punish us, and we'll be more resilient.
mr president my dear colleagues, mr timmermans, who is a very interesting, self-righteous man, as i see it. why do i say that? i imagine that healthy, normal-minded people, especially in post-communist countries, when they see what happened here today, they're going to be absolutely shocked. there was a minute's silence in the european parliament in honour and memory of the 100 million victims of communism. what a wonderful thing! but they do not know the nature of the european union as a corrupt and infinitely lying entity! mr. timmermans, dear, you changed the title of this whole debate! when i logged in last week, it was this: radicalism and populism in europe a hundred years after the bolshevik revolution in russia. they gathered their heads, they realized that this is a bit too transparent, and we saw in the debate that this is what it was about, that the forces that you call populist, that stand for national sovereignty, want to be ideologically (...) (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
mr president on 8 november, the european parliament commemorated the centenary of the bolshevik revolution of october 1917. the poster was decorated with a communist symbol of a hammer and fork. in october, however, the french council of state ordered the town of ploermel, in brittany, to remove the christ's cross from the monument to pope john paul ii. here's where we are in europe. the totalitarian bolshevik communism which threatened the very existence of what was once christian europe is now being perpetuated in the heart of the union and in the free west with democratic support by atheist propaganda which betrays european values. while holocaust denial is punishable by law, the crimes and symbols of totalitarianism of mass murder communism are not subject to the same judgment in much of europe. we must definitively break with the hypocritical double standard! in the face of the present global threat, in order to defend our european and christian identity and values, we must rid ourselves once and for all of the destructive legacy of communism.
mr. president, mr. vice president, and madam secretary, please. i would like to welcome the second mobility package presented by the commission, which sets out forward-looking objectives similar to the first. we all agree that we need to reduce emissions from transport, but let me highlight two things. first of all, it is very important that the goals we set are ambitious, but at the same time we must remain grounded in reality. it is not worthwhile to set goals that you can guess from the outset that you cannot achieve. meanwhile, we're creating a huge disruption in the auto industry. many of the projects that have been started and supported so far may be unsuccessful, putting thousands of european jobs at risk. no one disputes that current efforts are not sufficient to achieve climate goals, but if we break the competitiveness and economic performance of the european automotive industry, losses and damages could distract resources from the very goal of effectively reducing emissions. secondly, it is very important that the objectives set are achievable in all the member states of the european union. the environmental impact of transport varies widely across the eu, due to the age of the fleet and the level of infrastructure development. it is therefore very important to map the current situation and to identify certain regions.
author. – madam president, in february this year the commission published its first edition of the environmental implementation review (eir) to give an overview of the implementation of eu environmental law in each member state. the 28 country reports are accompanied by a summary document listing the common challenges, such as waste management, nature and biodiversity protection, air quality, noise pollution, water quality and management, to identify the root causes of problems, and providing policy proposals and recommendations for improvement. i would like to stress that the eir is a soft tool to shed light on implementation gaps, challenges and problems. in this sense it is a key to providing an early warning for the national and sub-national level policymakers which can take corrective actions and address the gaps in time. the eir also aims to demonstrate success stories that can serve as an example for other member states. the recently launched peer-to-peer tool facilitates this kind of exchange of knowledge or best practices. the exercise is to be repeated every two years, offering the possibility for iterative changes and improvements. we, members of the european parliament, welcome the eir and believe that this new review mechanism as a whole has the potential to improve compliance and policy implementation and thus also contribute to greater transparency and the credibility of the eu. yet, in order to fully realise this potential, we believe that the process could be further improved, including by broadening the scope of the review, as also expressed in the motion for a resolution adopted in october in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. there is also a need for targeted assistance to the member states to overcome the barriers of proper, effective implementation, such as ineffective governance, inappropriate institutional framework, lack of capacity and an unclear responsibility of the authorities. my co-sponsors of the motion for a resolution and oral question – ms pietikäinen, ms bonafè, mr demesmaeker, mr gerbrandy, mr flanagan –and i tabled on behalf of the environment committee the following questions, first to the council, regarding the eir. parliament wishes to highlight the need to address the root causes, in particular lack of policy coherence and insufficient financing. the same goes for covering additional issues in the coming review cycles such as climate change, chemicals regulations, industrial emissions and other systemic challenges linked, for example, to energy, transport and regional policies. in order to demonstrate clear, strong political commitment, the council could hold regular meetings dedicated to the implementation of eu environmental law which could facilitate monitoring the performance and progress of a member state and ensure structured implementation dialogues as proposed by the commission. for the latter, member states should pay due attention to ensuring transparency and broad stakeholder participation. in addition, we would see added value in joint council meetings to address the implementation of cross-cutting issues and also the environmental challenges of a cross-border nature. we would also like to ask the commission this oral question and we raise some concerns about the exact means of following up on the policy proposals and recommendations for better implementation put forward by the commission. there are issues to be solved linked to data availability and comparability, especially in the context of the next review cycles that would hopefully run with a wider scope. we would like to hear the commission’s views on how the eir framework could be used as a means of assessing the implementation of the relevant sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the 2030 agenda and, in general, of shifting from the current sectoral approaches to a coherent, consistent and holistic solution. we put on the table tools, including a publicly available scoreboard to monitor the performance and progress of each member state and to improve transparency and raise public awareness and ensure proper public participation in each member state. last but not least, we would like to better understand the linkage between the eir process and the infringements and, in general, the exact actions taken by the commission in the event of non-compliance.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur of the european people's party, i can only say good things about the working methods of my colleague mr lópez and his transparent approach. the draft report itself is basically for noble purposes, to create jobs, to increase social security and to create common european funds to finance social programmes. however, in the latter context, the draft report also contains a number of initiatives with vague financial commitments, which would be irresponsible to vote on at this stage. i'm glad that the epp has been able to get some of the elements that are important to us to be accepted in the joint work, but not all of them. for example, we propose that competitiveness considerations should be taken into account when measuring inequalities and social problems. overall, i think it's a great achievement to say that countries that are showing spectacular improvements should not be deprived of eu funds just because they are doing better than other member states with domestic funds. for example, in hungary, youth unemployment has also declined dramatically, but this should not be a reason to take funds from the youth guarantee ahead of time. i ask the political groups to make every effort to adopt a balanced text in the vote tomorrow, not to make irresponsible promises but to make full use of the instruments at our disposal for the good of the cause.
madam president, please. the proposal refers to a report which gives an overview of the positions of governments and the social partners on the principle of equal pay for equal work. a. the most serious of the inequalities is the wage gap between the central and eastern european countries. this is the reason for the east-west migration of people. k. it is bad for the worker who is forced to leave his country and bad for the host country where it causes social tension z.this is why the movement for jobbik hungary launched the european citizens' initiative to raise wages, and has found partners in seven countries to do so. t. the commission welcomed the initiative t. a new cohesion policy that supports human resource development and high value-added enterprises can be a catalyst for catch-up, as this can be the basis for increasing wages. k is
in writing. – the russian ban on eu fruit and vegetable imports has deprived european producers of a significant export market. currently in its third year, the ban has caused significant agricultural market losses in this volatile market. opening alternative trade routes in the short term was very difficult for all the affected stakeholders. the eu’s strength could still be used to seek long-term solutions. the commission must look into the potential re-orientation towards other markets, as well as the evolution of eu agricultural production, distribution, and demand in the past three years since the introduction of the russian ban. the actions taken up by the commission to support european fruit and vegetable producers and exporters have indeed been needed and will still be needed. these measures must provide sustainable assistance to these important players in the european agricultural sector. both the commission and the council must ensure that the future of these producers is safe, with a special focus on small producers. as a perfect tool for revitalising the internal market for fruit and vegetables, let us start harmonising the vat levels on food articles. reducing to a common, very low level of vat could have a positive impact on producers, consumers and the fight against fraud.
thank you very much for this opportunity, madam president, although there is clearly no budget on earth that anyone could fully accept. we have all heard comments that have been both praised and criticized. i would like to concentrate on the pleasures and draw your attention to the new phenomena that are contained in this budget. this is the case for the initiative to support the so-called 'smart villages', which is also reflected for the first time in the budget through a so-called preparatory project. i think that in an environment where only 6% of farmers are under 35 years old, we are talking about an outdated profession, and that is where the future of europe, the future of european food, really stands or falls. i think this initiative deserves special attention and i would like to thank mr mureșan and all those who prepared the budget for their contribution.
mr president i'd like to speak to officer oettinger. your name is well known in hungary, because you made the historic, revealing admission that cohesion funds granted to hungary and other former communist countries by the european union are actually almost entirely going back to western countries, western companies, multinational companies. he cried out with childlike sincerity when our immigration policy was punished by taking away cohesion funds, by withdrawing them. he said, "god forbid, the west will be punished". my question is: what is your opinion of this budget from the point of view of cohesion, from the point of view of convergence? do they even do an "impact assessment" of how much the huge income and living standards gap between the west and the east will be reduced by such a budget? i'm waiting for your answer, officer. thank you, thank you.
in writing. the common position of the european parliament and of the council provides for commitments of eur 160.1 billion and payments of eur 144.6 billion for the 2018 budget of the european union. the most important for hungary are the successes achieved in the area of cohesion and agricultural resources. hungarian farmers will continue to receive the eu support they are entitled to in 2018. and member states will be able to spend €1.4 billion more on european rural development next year. hungary is expected to continue to receive a record amount of cohesion funding in 2018. the money available in the european union budget for member state projects will increase by eur 16.9 billion compared to 2017. the commission will also be able to use the new financial perspective to support the implementation of the new financial perspective.
madam president, please. the commission has drawn up a draft regulation on the internal market in electricity in the context of the energy union. eight national parliaments objected to the regulation on the grounds that it violated the principle of subsidiarity. according to the hungarian parliament, decisions on capacity mechanisms will be taken at eu level, the definition of the energy mix will be indirectly taken away from the member states, and the member states' role as system operators will be narrowed. regional operational centres are established, with member states being responsible for security of supply. they unnecessarily restrict the power of member states to set prices, while giving them the means to protect consumer rights and reduce energy poverty. european energy cooperation should be structured in such a way as not to infringe the sovereignty of the member states as enshrined in the treaties.
in writing. the whole world is investing in renewable energy, the production of cars with combustion engines is being banned across europe, solar parks and wind farms are on the rise. what's all this for? because today renewable energy is the main driver of economic growth and because renewable energy is cheap. because it creates millions of jobs and because it ends our dependence on the russians. the newly adopted european renewable energy directive only further strengthens these. it obliges eu member states to source 35% of their total energy consumption from renewable sources. increasing renewables allows us to pay little or no for energy. for example, in germany, a leader in renewables, there have already been two cases where the consumer is paid for using electricity, rather than the other way around. the newly adopted directive also obliges member states to make it easier to install solar panels on our roofs. now in many countries, you have to wait years, you have to fill out hundreds of pages of forms to install a home solar panel. this will be done away with by the european parliament through a mandatory one-stop shop, on the basis of my own amendment. renewable energy is the future because it makes the cost of electricity cheaper, creates jobs, boosts the economy and, by the way, even saves the environment. europe is looking at these.
in writing. today we face many security challenges, and these challenges know no borders, they do not stop at the eu's external borders. i therefore believe that the european union should play a greater role in regional security policy, as well as at the global level. for this reason, i support increased funding for training and non-lethal equipment for security forces in partner countries. the allocation of assistance shall be such as to contribute to the strategic and security policy objectives defined by the eu. these investments can contribute to the preservation of global and regional peace and stability in the future. thank you for listening.
mr president as the author of the report on the mobility and inclusion of people with disabilities adopted in 2011 and the european disability strategy 2010-2020, i would like to express my appreciation to mrs stevens. the present report is an excellent continuation of the work begun then. but i also want to draw attention to the technological revolution that's happening around us right now, and these new technologies are actually helping to make independent living a reality. i call on the european commission and the member states to give maximum support to these assistive technologies, their research and innovation. i am convinced that my country, hungary, is setting an example for the european union in this regard. the european union grants for this purpose are allocated to advocacy organisations representing disabled people. that's what the slogan is, "nothing about us without us".
madam president, please. there is still a wide gap between the income and living standards of the so-called newly joined, former communist or socialist countries and the income and living standards of the old member states. so, as the european union is obviously observing on its own, there is a continuous flow from countries with lower wages, lower incomes and higher standards of living to those with higher wages. i still don't know what the idea was when the expansion process started. in any case, it is a fact that now, year after year, the budgets should give priority to reducing this gap by all possible means. to do this, i would suggest that there should be a new commissioner, a european commissioner responsible for cohesion, convergence, and that this should be a stated priority in the budget every year, and that there should be an impact assessment of cohesion in the budget.
the other day we saw president macron giving a lecture at an african university and consulting with students and faculty. students have complained of terrible conditions, the air conditioning on campus is not working. a few minutes after that, the rector jumped up and left the hall for some reason. macron joked: "the rector must have run off to fix the air conditioner". the world press, of course, immediately shouted racism, when the problem raised in the joke is very real: how is the responsibility for developing countries shared between the developing countries themselves and europe? and an even more delicate question is how, within the european union, to distribute the burden fairly between the former colonial powers, and for example hungary, and other countries that have not benefited from the exploitation of the colonies, that have not enriched themselves from the misery of these countries.
there is hardly any area of human rights where there has been as much progress, as much breakthrough in the last decades, as in the area of the rights of disabled people or people with disabilities. just think about what the chances were for a child born deaf 30 years ago to have a full life, and what the chances are now for a child to have a life of human dignity and standards. let us remember that this report was also handed to us by a member of parliament who is deaf and who is a perfect interpreter. i am not sure that a person born with or suffering from a disability has the same opportunities in the old member states, that is, in western europe and on the other side of the old iron curtain. for each of these policies, we should look at the extent to which cohesion, convergence, is being achieved. i strongly suspect that the situation is much worse in terms of financial possibilities in the so-called new member states, even though their specialists in medical education, medical gymnastics, etc. are internationally renowned.
mr president this work began more than a year ago and we have a clear message: all steps to simplify the cap are welcome, although there were initial concerns about the ability of the 'omnibus' tool to address the specificities of the cap policies. however, these fears were dispelled in the interinstitutional negotiations, with the report receiving an overwhelming majority of support from the agri committee. i would therefore like to congratulate my colleagues who have contributed to the report, in particular mr dess, mr de castro and mr andrieu and mr dantin. i hope that these simplifications will be a real relief to the producers. but looking ahead, i would like to reaffirm my commitment to the common nature of the cap. i will not support any renationalization on this front, we will not be partners in turning back the wheel of time. achieve successful development through a common, consistent policy and implement projects such as smart villages. we have water, land, knowledge, and diligence in abundance, so we shouldn't be subjected to various governmental, will-driven distortions... (the president declared the sitting closed)
in writing. i would ask the honourable members to vote in favour of the text on amendments to the regulations in force in the field of agriculture and rural development. this adopted text is of paramount importance to our farmers. in all areas - producer organisations, greening, production-related and first pillar support for young farmers, the clearing of eu funds - significant relief has been achieved for european farmers and member state authorities. so, for example, i'd like to highlight two things here. on the one hand, we have strengthened the producer's bargaining position against the traders and processors who often abuse their dominance. similar to the provisions of the 2010 milk package, the recognised producer organisation will in future be able to plan production in other agricultural sectors in addition to the milk sector and negotiate supply contracts with traders on behalf of its members, thus becoming a stronger exception to the competition rules of union law. on the other hand, the greening rules, which were too bureaucratic and difficult to implement in practice, have been simplified in many respects. for example, in the future, ivory, cup plants and especially honey plants, which are very important to us for pollination and for keeping bees, will also be accounted for in the so-called ecologically important areas that have been taken out of management.
mr president i agree with my colleagues in the house who have emphasised research and development. and i'd like to make that a little bit more plausible. all the airplanes that are built today in different developed countries around the world, these will be in operation for 15 to 25 years, and they will be emitting the carbon dioxide that they were actually designed to emit today. it is therefore a very, very difficult sector to move in, and here at the beginning we must actually grasp the processes, and i congratulate mrs girling for having supported this particular perspective action in a very eloquent way. overall, i think that the carbon emissions from aviation are the ones that actually can, in the long run, even negate all the efforts that other sectors, industry, transportation, other sectors, can make in europe and the world, and that's why we have to pay attention. research and development!
in writing. i welcome kazakhstan's consistent approach to the eu and its significant contribution to the implementation of the eu-central asia strategy, which will be thoroughly reviewed in 2019. the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement aims to significantly boost economic relations between the eu and kazakhstan. the report recalls that the agreement introduced the possibility of negotiating a visa facilitation agreement between the eu and kazakhstan. the resolution also recommends that the eu continue to support regional cooperation in central asia, with particular regard to the rule of law, confidence-building measures, water and resource management, border management and stability and security. hungary, as the chair of the visegrád group (v4), has also made it its priority to develop cooperation between the v4 and central asia. hungary has a strong economic interest in this and, as kazakhstan is a leader in the central asian region, it wants to cooperate with the country primarily in the fields of oil industry, agriculture and water management. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume increased by more than 10% during the period considered. the main reason for this is that hungary has significantly increased its imports of petroleum from kazakhstan and increased its exports of pharmaceuticals to the country. in addition, educational relations between the two countries are expanding dynamically: budapest has offered 200 kazakh students scholarships to higher education institutions in hungary.
mr president, the ‘roaming like at home’ rule was one of the most significant success stories of the eu this year. now we have to take it one step further by expanding it to the western balkan candidate states already during the accession negotiations. by cancelling roaming charges, we could reach out to every citizen in the western balkan region, proving to them that the eu’s commitment to enlargement is sincere. this would be beneficial to the economies too, through market integration and better services. as we all know, telecommunication and connectivity are the driving forces of development, which is greatly needed in that region. the first bilateral steps have already been taken by bulgaria, macedonia and serbia, but we need a europe—wide approach. therefore, i call on the commission to draw up a special roadmap as soon as possible.
on december 15, 1989, the romanian revolution that overthrew the ceausescu dictatorship began in timişoara. 70 years ago, in december 1947, the romanian constitutional monarchy was overthrown and deposed, and king michael i was driven from the country by the communists who came to power. the two historic anniversaries of the beginning and end of communist rule in romania should serve as a memento that the romanian people want to live in freedom and will not let the revolution slip away. may the recent death of king michael, the former constitutional monarch, remind us of this. the hungarian community in romania shares the grief and hope of the romanian people.
in writing. the panama papers revealed that the world's financial and political elite are trying to hide a significant portion of their wealth from the public through various offshore companies and countries. since then, countless similar cases have come to light, the paradise papers, the azeri money laundering, all based on the same logic: hiding assets of dubious origin, income, through a complex network of companies, so as not to have to account for and pay taxes. in the meantime, strict anti-money laundering rules are in place in the union and banks and banking supervisors have strict control systems. unfortunately, eu legislation does not cover all the gaps, but the transposition into national law, and even the enforcement and enforcement controls, are not adequate. basically because a web of corruption and financial interests is weaving through the world of economics and politics, exploiting the incoherence of the legislative background. to increase efficiency, the eu would have to take a number of decisions to tighten up the rules. in particular, trade links with legal entities established in tax havens should be prohibited where the ultimate beneficiary cannot be identified. publicity should be increased and guaranteed in relation to corporate networks. eu funds should not be paid to companies suspected of tax evasion and the participation of offshore companies in public procurement should be prohibited.
madam president, please. the primary objective of the european fund for strategic investments is to support projects that deliver social and environmental benefits and high-quality and sustainable jobs. the fund should act as a tool to boost the union's economic capacity, helping to close the investment gap in the newly acceded countries. how can the fund achieve this objective when 91% of the infrastructure and innovation support framework was allocated to the old 15 member states? it is clear that the strategic investment fund is not a substitute for cohesion funds and similar instruments and that their maintenance is necessary in the future if we are to reduce the gap between the countries of the centre and the periphery.
in writing. i believe that the european fund for strategic investments has achieved the objectives it set itself at its inception and that it is therefore justified to extend the programme. but if you look at the list of projects that have been completed and those that are still in progress, you might have a sense of emptiness. the esf has really only performed well in the western, more developed member states and regions, and we will find very little investment in the new member states and less developed regions, so more attention needs to be paid to geographical balance in the future. moreover, the mechanism offered by the esi funds should not serve as a basis for any reform of the structural funds after 2020. the preservation of the fundamental objectives of cohesion policy in accordance with article 179 of the treaty and the continued dominance of grants over financial instruments are the only way to ensure that economic disparities are effectively reduced.
in writing. the compromise proposal of the european parliament and the council increases the eu guarantee underpinning the european fund for strategic investments from eur 16 billion to eur 26 billion. the increase in the eu guarantee will increase the investment fund's investment portfolio to eur 500 billion by 2020. on the question of financing, we agree with the compromise text proposal, we support it, as it states that the european commission will respect the framework previously adopted in the mid-term review of the mff. the compromise strengthens the investment fund advisory platform, which will in future be able to employ experts at local level to help those interested in investment funds make their decisions. this could strengthen the diversification of the use of resources, i.e. that all european regions can benefit equally from the support provided by the investment fund. the investment fund will also be able to support motorway investments in the cohesion countries in the future, as agreed by parliament and the council. at the same time, we have managed to ensure that the operation of the investment fund will be subject to an independent review and the results achieved so far will be reviewed before any extension of the fund beyond 2020. in the interests of compromise, we can accept the amended draft of the european commission, since a council declaration was prepared for the agreement, which states that the agreement does not create a precedent for the future and respects the provisions of the treaty.
my fellow citizens! burma, known as myanmar since 1989, has undergone remarkable transformations since reforms began in 2011. the new government that came to power democratically in april 2016 after overthrowing decades of military dictatorship represents a historic opportunity for the country. the european union, with its own instruments, has played a decisive role in the process of change. in recent months, however, there has been legitimate concern about the violence perpetrated by the authorities against the large rohingya community in rakhine state, which has displaced hundreds of thousands of stateless persecuted people and forced them to flee to neighbouring bangladesh. the un high commissioner for human rights has rightly described the unsustainable situation as ethnic cleansing. in september this year, the european parliament adopted an emergency resolution condemning the myanmar government's appalling treatment of the rohingya minority. it called for the immediate investigation of serious human rights and ethnic violations and the prosecution of perpetrators as a precondition for the success of the democratic transition under way in the country and for further eu support.
madam president, please. i am pleased to note that the mcallister report is positive about the western balkans and gives due emphasis to addressing the security challenges facing the region. i also share the rapporteur's view that the stability and security of the western balkans must remain a priority for the eu as well. european integration processes have made a major contribution to maintaining regional peace and security. i particularly welcome the part of the report which suggests to the commission the need to increase the pre-accession funds, the ipa funds, since it is not viable for the european parliament to spend more annually on the maintenance of its two seats than, for example, the largest candidate country, serbia, received from the ipa to support all the reform measures it has undertaken.
madam president, please. it is also part of the political coherence of the european union that the aim of the union's efforts under discussion must be to guarantee european citizens the opportunity and security of living within a democratic legal framework based on our common values, and to strengthen the role of the european union as a global guiding force in this respect. but this can only be achieved by a genuine community effort if we are able to act together and effectively within the union against the violation of democratic rights, the desecration of european values and the phenomena of corrupt and authoritarian governance.
madam president, please. all those who spoke before me have already told us about the dramatic conditions of refugees in libya. they also told us that this life is simply unbearable, they also told us that we are not doing anything, that the situation is not getting better, but getting worse, and i think that's not really surprising, because libya is a country that really doesn't have a government with real political power. so refugees are completely exposed to the circumstances. local authorities are colluding with human traffickers, trampling on the rights of refugees, human rights. the question is what can the european parliament, the european union, do in this case? and i think that we have to come up with very clear and very specific demands. we have no time for any more delay, for talks, for negotiations, we have to demand from the libyan authorities, the libyan government, to end the arbitrary detention of refugees, to guarantee these people their human rights, to end the violence and the domination, to do everything to ensure that these people live in decent conditions. if we do not follow this path, nothing else will happen but that europe will lose its own conscience, betray its own values, degrade its own values, and nothing else will happen but that the forces of the extreme right will be strengthened.
i'll close this discussion. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
the next item is the annual report 2016 by mrs godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the situation of human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter (a8-0365/2017)
madam president, please. i would also like to congratulate you first of all on this comprehensive report, in which the author, on behalf of the european union, renews his commitment to the promotion of universal human rights, fundamental freedoms and values. the union must be able to promote respect for human rights beyond its borders in third countries. the report contains many examples of human rights violations. i think we can agree that the right to education and the right to speak one's mother tongue is a fundamental right. so i would like to draw attention to the fact that unfortunately in ukraine, in 2016, the process was launched that in the autumn of 2017 the new ukrainian education law, through the article on the language of education, would reduce the right of national minorities to use their mother tongue. while minorities have been able to access all levels of education in their mother tongue, after 2018 this will be limited to primary school, meaning the new law will take back rights already acquired. the eu's official position is that the existing rights of minorities cannot be reduced, as was stated in the eu-ukraine association council's final document last friday. the venice commission, in a report published on monday, said the criticism of article 7 was justified and proposed amendments. first, because the text adopted differs significantly from the one on which the minorities were consulted and agreed. article 7 of the law also contains significant ambiguities, although comprehensive reforms must take into account international and constitutional commitments, especially for existing minority rights. i hope that ukraine will fully implement the recommendations of the venice commission, consult with the minorities concerned and its neighbours, and incorporate the needs and proposals of the nationalities in the implementation of the education reform.
madam president, please. this afternoon, we have raised our voices in defense of the muslim rohingya in myanmar. in other cases, we defend the most persecuted christian communities in the world. the european union must act in a united way without ethnic or religious discrimination to respect individual human rights and the collective rights of minorities, as well as the freedoms of conscience, expression and religion. it is especially important that we take up the fight against disenfranchising and mass-murdering religious and political ideologies such as islamic fundamentalism and atheistic communism. the european union is the main sponsor of this universal struggle for human rights, as reflected in the parliament's 2016 human rights report.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 december 2017, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on the fact that this year there was no need to submit an amendment in favour of people with disabilities, because the report specifically commends the ratification of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and states that disability does not diminish human dignity and that it is therefore the duty of states to provide protection for people with disabilities. i agree that the principle of universal accessibility and the rights of persons with disabilities must be firmly embedded in all eu policies, underlining the prescriptive and horizontal nature of this issue. i support the eu's integration of the fight against discrimination on the basis of disability into its external action and development aid policies. i am pleased that the rights of persons with disabilities are included in the new european consensus on development policy. however, it is still relevant - as was stated in my motion last year - to examine more closely the effectiveness of projects relating to people with disabilities and to involve local ngos representing people with disabilities in their implementation. support for the social integration of people with disabilities in their own communities should be provided. local organisations should be involved, because they know exactly what is needed locally and they can help ensure that the support actually reaches the people for whom it is intended. we need to do more than talk, we need to do more than export democracy, we need to empower local communities.
the next item is the report of alyn smith, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation on the situation of hong kong 20 years after the handover (2017/22014 (ini)) (a8-0382/2017).
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 december 2013, at 12 noon.
the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments on the draft legislative proposal to the council and parliament.
i'll close this discussion. the vote will take place tomorrow, 13 december 2013, at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee established by article 15 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011.
madam president, when the history of brexit comes to be written, one aspect of it is bound to play a prominent role: the quality of the communication between london and brussels, especially in the media. ‘communication’ may be the wrong word; ‘miscommunication’ might be better. the council mandate of 29 april is crystal clear on what the eu expected from the united kingdom. yet, the british media have treated the negotiations as if they had never read the council’s mandate. who knows, maybe there is no ‘as if’ about it – certainly, much of the british media comment has reflected a very different mindset about brexit: one in which the eu’s position has played next to no role. it’s bizarre. the uk is constantly trumpeting diversity and multiculturalism. evidently, the eu, brussels, the european parliament and the 27 are not a part of this diversity.
in writing. jean claude juncker recently announced that the european union would provide substantial resources to help member states wishing to adopt the euro. of course, this requires a willingness to have a common currency. this eu initiative is a historic opportunity for hungary. europe would give money to modernize the hungarian economy and bring the standard of living back home closer to the west. we would have access to more eu funds and the hungarian economy would be protected by the full firepower of the eurozone. all this for free, not with our sweat. this requires only one thing: a commitment to the euro. of the 10 member states that joined in 2004, seven have already adopted the euro and the others are planning to do so, and recently the bulgarians and the czechs applied for observer status. however, the current hungarian government has no plans to introduce the single currency. this is a big mistake. the introduction of the euro would only bring advantages. the euro would reduce the public debt and eliminate exchange rate risk, which would help foreign exchange borrowers. the introduction of the euro would protect hungarian savings, not the weak hungarian bank, which is struggling to cope with the bankruptcy of a small rural savings cooperative. if there were a euro, hungarians could receive eu unemployment benefits within years. the introduction of the euro is in the interest of the hungarian people. now we're even getting paid for it. it's not worth missing.
in writing. i am following with grave concern the processes that have recently begun in the european council. while the commission and parliament are making significant efforts to create a common european asylum system that is responsive to current challenges, the european council seems to be characterised by day-to-day politics and cheap tactics. in the long run, the losers of this irresponsible delay will be the citizens of europe, and the winners will be the far-right parties. i am particularly concerned by the recent statement by president tusk, in which he calls into question the essential elements of the common european asylum policy. it is a grave mistake for the european council or its president to give in to the blackmail of a few governments led by far-right adventurers and turn their backs on the fundamental values of the european union. the concessions made to politicians who are unrestrainedly pushing for political gain do not create unity but, on the contrary, undermine the moral and legal foundations of the european union's unity. further delay, denial of the principle of solidarity, seeking unprincipled compromises, and questioning legitimate decisions afterwards will only lead to confusion and a weakening of trust in the european institutions. the citizens of europe expect the eu institutions to find solutions to the problems and to firmly reject the demagogy that undermines the european values.
in writing. the agenda for our current plenary debate reflects that the eu heads of state or government should again devote their week to reconciling the eu's interests and negotiating positions in the brexit negotiations. i think it is important to remind you at every such occasion that the irresponsible political tactics of a british right-wing government and the anti-european, populist, nationalist demagogy have created a situation which is unnecessarily hampering the construction of europe, to the detriment of all concerned. i think this is an important lesson to be borne in mind throughout the negotiation process, as the uk side tackles the problem it has created and the eu negotiators try to limit the damage to european citizens. in this context, i welcome the fact that at this stage of the negotiations, agreement in principle on the three essential framework conditions for moving forward has finally been reached. the european parliament will have a key role to play in ensuring that these agreements are fully and in good faith transposed into the future final agreement and that the civil and social rights of our citizens - whether they live and work in the member states or in the british isles - are fully respected during the agreed transition period and after brexit. as a hungarian representative, i am particularly concerned that many of my fellow citizens - who, as mostly young professionals, are seeking refuge in the uk from the economic restrictions and political constraints of the authoritarian orbán regime - and their families may not suffer further legal harm.
mr president i regret that i did not vote in favour of the report assessing the state of play of the brexit negotiations and setting out parliament's current position on the european union's positions. in assessing the brexit issue, i always take as a starting point the fact that this situation, which is unnecessarily hampering the european construction and damaging for all actors, was caused by the irresponsible political tactics of a british right-wing government. in this context, i welcome the fact that the report says that at the end of the current phase of the negotiations, there is an agreement in principle on the three essential framework conditions for moving forward. so, the mutual status of citizens, the financial settlement, the border with northern ireland, and that's pending approval by the next european council. but in the absence of concrete, sufficient concrete, i do not think that is enough.
mr president i welcome the fact that the european union has defined and declared its basic principles on social rights. i am convinced that effective and successful economic policy must always take precedence over social policy. the social protection of citizens will only be sustainable if it has an economic backing. if you have sustainable and non-credit-based economic growth and job creation, you can spend it on social causes and people will live better. the same is true of people with disabilities. i've been saying for years that we have to think of them as workers, too. hungary has been on the right track in this area since 2010 and the results speak for themselves. unemployment is around 4%, and the number of people in employment is the highest since the change of regime in 1989, with 4,445,000 people in work today, or 775,000 more than in 2010. so 68.7 percent of working-age adults are employed, 3.5 percent more than, say, in france. but the work is not over, we must continue to do everything we can for our citizens.
in writing. as a mother of four, i am delighted to see action taken at eu level against this lowest form of crime, which continues to victimize and endanger all our children and which, through the world of the internet, has penetrated into the most protected childrens' rooms. we can't waste any more time, because child pornography has a much wider range of victims than the public is aware of. an exemplary international effort is needed to tackle this phenomenon, as the internet knows no borders and it is not enough to tackle it at the level of individual member states. in particular, i would like to welcome the call in the report for member states to establish hotlines to help find missing children quickly and efficiently across borders. a very good example of this is amber alert europe, the european child rescue, alert and police network for missing children. according to the organisation, 250,000 children are reported missing in the union every year. in 76% of cases, the child's life is most at risk within three hours of the abduction. since law enforcement often stops at national borders, a rapid international response is essential, especially in border areas. effective cooperation and joint action between law enforcement, border protection and local authorities can help locate abducted children and save children's lives. child safety must remain a central issue in all eu member states. we must take care of our children.
in writing. i consider the implementation of the strategy for low-emission mobility to be an objective to be supported. i can agree with many of the proposals in the parliament's report, such as the increased use of natural gas, including lng and cng, in certain segments of transport. however, the parliament's report contains some proposals with which i strongly disagree. this includes the article which aims to introduce a minimum target for manufacturers for the share of zero-emission cars. i believe that mandatory regulation is an excessive interference in the economy, in the business decisions of economic operators. in fact, for certain operators, the requirement may result in a significant disadvantage in international competition. in the absence of such measures, incentive competition between producers is expected to develop, as is already the case. another point is the introduction of a journey-proportionate tariff for passenger cars. the commission's documentation also refers to this. while i fully support this principle in the case of lorries as the practical expression of the polluter pays principle , in the case of passenger cars i think there are other considerations which could override the said approach. i would also ask the commission to change its position.
mr president i fully agree with the commission's recommendations, all the more so because there are a number of member states in the european union which unfortunately cooperate with harmful practices. i strongly believe that it is not enough to investigate the tax environment alone, but i also believe it is important that member states prohibit offshore companies from entering the public sector in the area of public procurement.
mr president i voted in favour of the adoption of the report on the european union's common foreign and security policy last year and next year, appreciating its thorough and in many respects innovative and proactive nature. the report reflects well the way in which the european union will respond to the new security challenges in its environment, the changed content of the transatlantic relationship, the destabilisation of our mediterranean neighbourhood, international terrorism and the possible consequences of brexit, with concrete, innovative initiatives in the area of the common foreign and security policy in the period ahead. in the circumstances and on the basis of the arguments presented in the report, i accept, i consider it appropriate, that in the future additional funding will be needed to protect the eu and its member states by creating european strategic autonomy, eliminating overlaps, improving military mobility, implementing pesco, and increasing global responsibility through common foreign and security policy missions.
